<h> Turbulence ahead : Iran-Israel escalation <p> The Iranian attack on Israel is a historic incident . It has further exacerbated the security situation in the region . At the regional and global level , it would have wider implications in the strategic , security , and economic domains . Although the attack could not achieve the intended results , two inferences can be drawn from it . First , the capability of Iran has been established beyond any doubt . Second , the capacity of Israel and its allies is also vivid , as 99 percent of the drones and missiles were destroyed before reaching their targets . The military attacks launched by Israel and Iran in April 2024 have proved a turning point in the Middle East conflict . Previously , both countries used proxies and cyber attacks . But the situation changed completely when Israel killed three prominent Islamic Revolutionary Guards generals in Damascus on April 1st . Iran threatened to avenge the killings of its generals and termed it a direct violation of its sovereignty . The response was gigantic . According to the United States Institute of Peace , 170 drones , 120 ballistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel . The aim of the attack was not to cause major destruction . The logic and rationale behind the salvo was to show resolve and capability . One thing is obvious : neither side can win in conventional or unconventional sense . The military threshold has been crossed . According to Nimrod Goren , the senior fellow of the Middle East Institute , Israel has not had any long-term strategy . It has proved its deterrence through kinetic means . In the last decades , it launched destructive cyber attacks against Iran to dismantle its critical nuclear infrastructure . Similarly , it was able to assassinate and eliminate the key officials of Iran through proxy means . Contrary to it , Iran has a mammoth build-up of ballistic and cruise missiles . It has thousands of drones , according to the assessment of RAND Corporation . So , there are limited chances of any decisive war between the countries . But protracted conflict would have implications for regional and international stability . <h> Overall , regional war in the Middle East must be averted . Major powers must convince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gaza and in the wider region should be challenged by strict embargo on sales of weapons and crippling economic sanctions . There should be efforts to defuse tensions between Iran and Israel . Peace is only possible in the Middle East when the brutal and inhuman actions of Israel are controlled by major Western powers . Mere condemnation of Israel and unprecedented restrictions will not yield peace and stability <p> The most nefarious impact is deviation of focus from the plight of people of Gaza . According to the Centre for Security &amp; International Studies , around 34000 people have been killed because the shameless liberal Western world allowed it to do so . Millions are facing famine-like conditions . Children and women are suffering in this man-made crisis . The ruthless American and other Western governments are busy pampering the murderous Israeli regime . Iranian attacks have given an opportunity to the West to absolve themselves of the Gaza crisis . It will empower Israel to establish a security and political order of its choice in Gaza . The Iranian attack would test the temperament of the USA and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its Axis of Resistance , but refrained from actively attacking Iran . It is a tricky business for the West . On the one hand , lack of response would give the impression of weakness to Iran and its allies . Ostensibly , Russia and China would also deem it as an American weakness . On the other hand , excessive use of force will eventually plunge the already volatile region into anarchy and chaos . American strategy will shape the security outlook of the Middle East . In addition to this , recent confrontation and conflict in the Middle East has revitalized the chances of cooperation and diplomatic relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia .. Saudi Arabia is a major power in the region . It abhors the military influence of Iran in the region . The security , economic , and political interests of the two countries are poles apart . Despite normalization of the ties , both countries have limited chances of effective relationship because of ideological and political reasons . Naturally , once the clouds of conflict and war will fade away from the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the auspices of the USA and other Western countries . It would potentially further debilitate the strategic calculus in the long run . Contrary to this , the chances of an effective and efficient response by the major powers to defuse the tensions are remote . The international actors are taking sides in this conflict . But none of them is on the side of peace . G-7 , a club of rich and liberal countries , blamed Iran for creating regional instability . They vowed to assist Israel in safeguarding its vital security interests . However , China and Russia at the UN Security Council session blamed Israel and said that the Iranian attack did not occur in a vacuum . Such divergent stances would not be helpful in restoring peace in the region . Evidently , restraint is needed . Escalation of conflict would pave the way towards regional instability . The Middle East is now a ripe ground for war . Syria and Yemen are already dealing with civil war . The proxies have eliminated the chances of peace between the two countries . Egypt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the domestic elements may engage in resistance activities , which could rupture peace and tranquility . Iran has built a massive network of proxies . It can deploy them against the Western interests . The resultant outcome : deaths of innocent civilians ; vicious cycle of conflict ; and victory of the powerful major powers . Overall , regional war in the Middle East must be averted . Major powers must convince Israel to abide by international law . Its actions in Gaza and in the wider region should be challenged by strict embargo on sales of weapons and crippling economic sanctions . There should be efforts to defuse tensions between Iran and Israel . Peace is only possible in the Middle East when the brutal and inhuman actions of Israel are controlled by major Western powers . Mere condemnation of Israel and unprecedented restrictions will not yield peace and stability .
