<h> Knowledge without morality serves powerful : Dr Jamileh Alamolhoda <h> Women should play their role effectively , efficiently to achieve success <p> LAHORE - Prof Dr Jamileh-Sadat Alamolhoda , the wife of Iranian President , said on Tuesday that knowledge without morality serves the purpose of powerful and cruel ones . Addressing the international seminar : exhibition and launching of book titled ' The Art of Living Femininely ' by Prof Dr Jamileh Alamolhoda here at the University of Home Economics , she said that she was happy to visit the women university , adding that there were women universities in Iran as well . She underscored the need for giving adequate attention towards women whether it was a women university or a co-educational institute . She said : " Culture of Iran and Pakistan have some common characteristics " . Independence of women was compared with western countries , she said and added that for us providing protection and taking women along was independence of women . Jamileh Alamolhoda said : " There are a lot of challenges with regard to upbringing of coming generations and all of us have to play our special role in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to stand up for protecting the values of morality , adding that each of us was aggrieved over the killing of humans in Gaza . She said that time had come to restore values of morality , adding that teachers were actually technicians of knowledge centre . She said : " I have mentioned in her book that if women play their role effectively and efficiently then success could be achieved " . She said there were two types of extremes , adding that one extreme - restricted women to homes while other one was put women in race of earning equal to men.She said both extremes yield negative results in their own ways . Dr Jamileh Alamolhoda said , " In Iran special attention is given in homes to educate girls about providing comfort and respect , whereas boys are educated to provide protection . " She underlined the need for giving importance to family structure as it played a significant role to develop good society . University of Home Economics Vice Chancellor Faleeha Zahra Kazmi presented a souvenir to Dr Prof Jamileh Alamolhoda.
