<h> 33 hostages killed in Gaza due to Israeli actions : Hamas <p> A Palestinian woman carries a child as they walk past the rubble of houses destroyed in previous strikes during the Israeli military offensive , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip November 6 , 2024 . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Hamas has claimed that 33 captives held by the group in Gaza have been killed since the onset of Israel 's nearly 14-month-long war in the besieged enclave . In a video statement released on Monday , the militant group stated that the deaths were the result of " the stubbornness of the war criminal " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and " his ongoing aggression . " <p> Hamas also detailed the incidents in which the captives were killed , with the majority of the fatalities attributed to Israeli airstrikes . Some of the deaths occurred during failed rescue attempts by Israeli military forces . According to Hamas , the first such incident took place on October 9 , 2023 , when an Israeli airstrike killed four captives . The most recent killing occurred during an Israeli military operation in northern Gaza last month . <p> The video concluded with a warning : " By continuing your mad war , you may lose your captives forever . Do what needs to be done before it 's too late . " <p> Diplomatic push for ceasefire and captive release <p> Hamas 's announcement comes as key international mediators , including Egypt , Qatar , and the United States , intensify efforts to broker a ceasefire . This initiative aims to secure the release of Israeli captives , with recent truce talks in Lebanon offering some hope for a diplomatic breakthrough . <p> Meanwhile , the White House issued a statement on Monday mourning the death of Omer Neutra , a U.S. citizen who was serving in the Israeli military . Neutra , a tank commander , was killed by Hamas during its attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> In a separate statement , incoming U.S. President Donald Trump warned on social media that there would be " ALL HELL TO PAY " if Hamas fails to release the captives by January 20 , the day he takes office . <p> Palestinian authority and Gaza talks <p> On Monday , delegations from the Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas met in Cairo to discuss the future management of Gaza following the end of Israel 's war . Egyptian Foreign Minister Badr Abdelatty confirmed the talks , noting that both sides were aiming to reach an understanding on the Palestinian Authority 's ( PA ) role in managing daily affairs in Gaza after the conflict . <p> Israel has expressed opposition to allowing the Palestinian Authority to take control of Gaza , but the U.S. has advocated for a " reformed " PA to oversee the enclave . <p> Continued Israeli bombardment <p> As diplomatic talks continue , Israeli forces have pressed on with their offensive in Gaza , with airstrikes targeting the Jabalia area in the north and Abasan al-Kabira in the south . Gaza 's Government Media Office has reported that at least 3,700 people have been killed or are missing since the siege of northern Gaza began 60 days ago . <p> Since the outbreak of the conflict on October 7 , 2023 , at least 44,466 Palestinians have been killed and 105,358 wounded , according to United Nations experts , who have described Israel 's actions in Gaza as " genocide . " On the Israeli side , more than 1,100 people were killed in the Hamas-led attacks on October 7 , and over 200 individuals were taken captive .
