<h> What Pakistan is experiencing today has its roots in the short-sighted grand decisions taken in 1979 and 2001 . <p> This piece is a corollary to my earlier published article titled " Endless-Immoral Wars , " where it was stated that , " The U.S. does not fight for the independent underdog , and it does not fight for liberty . A country or even a political party that attempts to be independent of U.S. militarism , or to truly promote private property rights in a way that costs the U.S. state some measure of power or profit , quickly finds itself a target of its wrath . Ukraine and Israel are current boutique wars of choice , connected to and very much like those the U.S. government pursued for profit and show in Iraq , Yugoslavia , Syria , Afghanistan , Libya , and elsewhere . Such boutique wars feed and satisfy the **33;1353;TOOLONG enablers and facilitate control over domestic resources and liberty . They promote endless state borrowing . They allow the state to scratch an itch , just as a snake sheds its skin to grow . " <p> U.S. presidents since Roosevelt have pursued his " big stick " foreign policy agenda . In the slightly less than a hundred years from 1898 to 1994 , the U.S. government successfully intervened to change governments in Latin America alone at least 41 times . Since the Second World War and especially after the fall of the Wall in 1989 , the U.S. has pursued foreign policy initiatives often perceived as escalatory rather than diplomatic in potentially serious geopolitical situations . Overall , while the United States engaged in 46 military interventions from 1948 -- 1991 , from 1992 -- 2017 , that number increased fourfold to 188 . In more than 80 countries worldwide , the U.S. manages over 750 military facilities . With such a spatial arrangement of military capabilities , it has , and continues to , influence major and minor conflicts -- most recently in Eastern Europe and the Middle East . <p> Pakistan fell into SEATO and CENTO traps , which ultimately led to its deleterious participation in the so-called jihad against the former USSR ( 1979 -- 1989 ) and then in the USA/NATO/Allies ' invasion of Afghanistan ( 2001 -- 2021 ) . In the late 1970s and 1980s , the U.S. managed billions of dollars from KSA to fund the so-termed ' Afghan Mujahideen , ' who fought the Soviets ' 10-year invasion of Afghanistan in the 1980s under the operational control of Pakistan 's prime intelligence agency , ISI . While those fighters eventually expelled Russian influence , they later fought one another for dominance . In the ensuing power struggle , a cadre of those rebels ( including Osama Bin Laden ) ultimately fused into the Taliban and al-Qaeda -- leading to the controversial 9/11 attacks inside the U.S. , which paved the way for the invasion of Afghanistan . Once again , Pakistan was coerced into playing its old role in reverse order , this time with disastrous repercussions , embroiling it in a web of internal and external threats . The 2001 U.S. invasion subsequently paved the way for incursions and the complete destruction of resource-rich and economically stable Muslim countries in the Middle East . <p> Since 9/11 , the U.S. has expended over $8 trillion on wars with " enemies " and " friends " in the Middle East . Iraq , Syria , Libya , and Yemen define the former ; Israel , Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Jordan the latter . However , thousands of American soldiers and hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians have perished due to America 's foreign policy interventions , under the false justification of " nation-building " and bringing " democracy " to targeted countries . Sane minds among American veterans opine that , irrespective of America 's decades-long failed foreign policy initiatives in the region , there are those who remain cautious about further meddling in the Middle East . <p> The CIA- and MI6-engineered overthrow of the democratically elected Iranian leader Mohammed Mosaddegh , followed by repeated regime changes in Afghanistan , Central Asian Republics , and other countries of South Asia , including Pakistan , from the 1950s to the present , is well known and established . The hypocrisy surrounding the spread of democracy is a blatant bluff , as popularly elected representatives are often replaced by autocratic rulers , fake aristocrats , monarchs , and ' democracy hustlers . ' <p> Former American Congressman Ron Paul stated in 2008 : " Terrorists do n't come here and attack us because we 're rich and we 're free . They come and attack us because we 're over there . " Nevertheless , the ' Immoral Wars ' continue ceaselessly . Even though Western meddling in the affairs of Ukraine was a b ? te noire for Russia , the U.S. helped engineer a coup to overthrow the democratically elected president of Ukraine , Viktor Yanukovych , in 2014 ; he had announced plans to sign an economic agreement with Russia instead of the EU . <p> The complete destruction of Gaza and the mass killing of innocent Palestinian Muslims , with the direct involvement of the U.S. and its allies , continues unabated , with the UN and ICC as bystanders . The world has been enduring the U.S. 's ' hammer-versus-nail-head approach , ' with over-reliance on destabilising sanctions and military force rather than diplomacy , intelligence gathering , economic statecraft , and persuasion . <p> Be that as it may , weaker states find themselves suffering under such high-handedness by a superpower now beginning to be challenged by two main competitors : China and Russia , along with their alliances such as SCO , BRI , CSTO , and BRICS . Pakistan has remained a major victim of U.S. interventionism in politics , economy , and security -- perhaps the worst-hit example of ' economic hit men . ' What Pakistan is experiencing today has its roots in the short-sighted grand decisions taken in 1979 and 2001 under American duress and the carrot-and-stick policy . Once bitten , twice shy -- the only way out is to acknowledge past strategic blunders and join the right blocs to achieve long-overdue political , economic , and security stability . <p> Saleem Qamar ButtThe writer is a retired senior army officer with experience in international relations , military diplomacy and analysis of geo-political and strategic security issues .
