<h> Gaza now has highest rate of child amputees per capita , UN reports <p> A Palestinian girl reacts in the aftermath of Israeli strikes , in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , October 14 . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Gaza now holds the tragic distinction of having the highest number of child amputees per capita in the world , according to the United Nations . This follows over a year of devastating conflict between Israel and Palestinian factions in the enclave . <p> UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres made the statement on Monday , addressing a Cairo conference aimed at accelerating humanitarian aid to Gaza . His remarks , delivered by his deputy , described the situation in Gaza as " appalling and apocalyptic " . Guterres highlighted that many children in Gaza have lost limbs and undergone surgeries without anaesthesia , underscoring the extreme suffering faced by the population . <p> " The war has left Gaza with the highest number of child amputees per capita anywhere in the world , " Guterres said . " Many children are losing limbs without even anaesthesia . " <p> Warning of grave international crimes <p> Guterres also warned that the conditions in Gaza may amount to the " gravest international crimes " . He pointed to the widespread malnutrition and imminent famine , stressing the collapse of Gaza 's health system . " Malnutrition is rampant ... Famine is imminent . Meanwhile , the health system has collapsed , " he said . <p> The UN Secretary-General also condemned the severe restrictions on aid delivery , calling the current levels of aid " grossly insufficient " . According to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , only 65 aid trucks per day were able to enter Gaza in the past month , compared to the pre-war average of 500 . <p> Aid delivery ' Grossly Insufficient ' <p> International aid agencies have repeatedly sounded the alarm over the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Gaza , warning that civilians are on the brink of famine . The volume of aid reaching the territory has dropped significantly since the onset of the Israeli offensive . <p> Israel , which imposed a complete siege on Gaza early in the conflict , has blamed the problems with aid on the inability of relief organisations to handle and distribute the large quantities of supplies . However , Guterres argued that the crisis is not about logistics but " a crisis of political will and of respect for fundamental principles of international humanitarian law " . <p> He criticised the continued blockade , stating , " The blockade of aid to Gaza is not a crisis of logistics , but a crisis of political will . " <p> Blocked aid and denied access <p> UNRWA reported that all of its attempts to deliver aid into northern Gaza between October 6 and November 25 had either been " denied " or " impeded " , with fierce fighting in the area making it increasingly difficult to reach those in need . <p> Guterres reiterated that UNRWA plays an " irreplaceable " role in providing vital services to millions of Palestinians . He added , " If UNRWA is forced to close , the responsibility of replacing its vital services would rest with Israel . " <p> As the war continues , the international community faces growing calls for action to address the escalating humanitarian crisis in Gaza .
