<h> JI Emir demands resignation of interior minister <p> LAHORE - Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) Emir Hafiz Naeem-ur-Rehman has demanded the immediate resignation of Interior Minister Mohsin Naqvi over the D-Chowk incident . Addressing a press conference at Mansoorah on Friday , he also called for the formation of an empowered and credible judicial commission to investigate the incident . The firing incident at D-Chowk , he said , was a brutal warning to the nation not to protest against the bogus government formed through manipulated Form-47 results . It was a fascist act which is unacceptable , he said , adding the government was bent upon crushing the masses instead of providing them relief . <p> He called for a broader political consensus to heal the wounds of people . <p> Rehman criticized the government for simultaneously suppressing public dissent and curbing media freedom . He urged the immediate withdrawal of false cases against journalists Matiullah Jan and Shakir Awan and demanded their unconditional release . <p> " The restrictions on freedom of expression today are worse than those imposed during martial law eras , " he remarked , condemning the government 's actions at D-Chowk . He also strongly criticized the resolution passed by the Balochistan Assembly to ban the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) , calling it shameful and condemnable . Rehman questioned the absence of PTI leadership during chaos at D-Chowk , stating , " The D-Chowk tragedy serves as a lesson for political leaders who abandon their workers during difficult times . " Political parties , he said , should not be family enterprises or the property of billionaires and feudal lords and they must embody true democratic values , he added . Commenting on the state of the economy , Rehman dismissed claims of linking so-called improvement in the stock market to the national economy as mere speculation , arguing that such gains provide no relief to the public . " Inflation , unemployment , and the lack of access to quality education are crushing the people , " he said . He criticized the privatization of national institutions at throwaway prices and the Punjab government 's decision to hand over schools to NGOs . <p> On Palestine , he called for global solidarity and immediate action by Islamic countries to aid Gaza residents , emphasizing that November 29 is observed worldwide as the Day of Solidarity with Palestine . <p> Accompanied by JI Secretary General Ameer-ul-Azeem , Deputy Emir Dr. Osama Razi , Information Secretary Qaiser Sharif , and Lahore Emir Ziauddin Ansari Advocate , Rehman also highlighted the growing disconnect between the military and the public . " While the military sacrifices are commendable , the actions of a few individuals are creating rifts between the public and the army . Institutions must rethink their approach . " He said Jamaat-e-Islami would continue to fearlessly speak the truth and advocate for public rights despite all challenges .
