<h> It is clear whenever there is conflict , these private capitalist companies , business tycoons , and corrupt and hawkish politicians earn profits . <p> The slogan ' War is Peace ' from George Orwell 's book 1984 captures the nature of the weapons industry mafia , which always thrives on wars and conflicts . Although the slogan talks about the totalitarian regime , in the modern day it best describes the independent democracies having traits of warmongers . Hundreds and thousands of innocent , blameless civilians die in the wars they do n't wish . The ultimate benefit of these wars is in the hands of the private weapons industries and capitalist mafia . Capitalist societies openly encourage manufacturers of lethal weapons to produce vast quantities of armaments . Moreover , this weapons industry does not care about any alliance , the only objective of these manufacturers is to print money and gain maximum profit . <p> Whether it is about Israel 's genocide in Gaza , the Russian aggression in Ukraine , or the Sudanese Civil War , non-combatant civilians are killed on both sides who do not have to do anything with war . Just in the past three years , the above-mentioned conflicts combined have killed more than 117,000 people , mostly children and women . Directly or indirectly , the civilian population falls prime prey to these conflicts . Furthermore , all this happens in the presence of the agents of human rights . The failure of international organizations to mediate and prevent wars is evident . <p> According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute -- ( SIPRI ) , and the Defense News , the top five arms-producing and military services companies are from the USA . Raytheon Technologies , Northrop Grumman Corp. , Boeing , and General Dynamics Corp .. Lockheed Martin is in the leading position . It is the same company that makes F-35 fighter jets for Israel . Not to mention , fifty-one out of one hundred are US-based companies . The scenario for the permanent United Nations Security Council members is startling . The top five arms-exporting countries are the USA , Russia , China , France , and Germany , while the United Kingdom ranks seventh . Four of the countries mentioned above are permanent members of the UN Security Council . Combining UNSC members , they constitute up to 75% of global arms exports . How can the UN Security Council adopt an abrupt resolution on armaments when all these countries are the accomplices and pivotal players with veto power ? <p> According to a Reuters report published by Mike Stone , an arms industry correspondent , the sale of US military equipment to foreign nations was $205.6 billion in 2022 , a record-breaking number . Since then , it has been growing . $200 billion worth of arms were exported in just one year by one nation . Moreover , in a report published by Reuters on June 13 , 2023 , Israel , too , sold record-breaking armaments of $12.5 billion , and a stupefying 24% of its imports were from the Arab nations . When discussing geopolitics and international alliances , we consider Russia and China on one side while the UK , the USA , France , and Israel on the other . However , regarding the export of weapons , both opposing blocs are aligned . <p> Governments all over the world buy these weapons either from their private capitalist companies or foreign companies while investing the money of ordinary taxpayers in shady business . Imagine this chunk of money spent on healthcare , education , infrastructure , or tourism . Ultimately , these weapons are used in wars , and innocent civilians lose their lives . Why do these five UNSC permanent member countries not decide to come up with a resolution and form a policy to stop the surge of weapons to limit the capitalist companies from extreme profits ? The weapons industry does not only sell guns , but they rent their private armies , whom they call " mercenaries , " to fight in foreign countries . Notable examples are The Wagner Group , POTOK , Don Brigade , Moran Security Group , and Slavonic Corps . These private militias are mostly employed in poor countries in exchange for some money . <p> The USA spent approximately $300 billion on 12 mercenaries groups from 1994 to 2007 . One of the notorious private companies is Blackwater , founded by the former US Navy SEAL Eric Prince . It hires mercenaries from various countries to provide horrifying services in exchange for money . Blackwater gained notoriety in the year 2007 when it killed 17 innocent Iraqi civilians . In Donald Trump 's then presidency , these jailed contractors were pardoned . The business model works easily for these politicians , as Erik Prince was the key donator of the Republican candidate Donald Trump in the 2018 presidential elections . Blackwater was awarded $800 million contracts . Politicians ask for donations in favor of contracts when elected . The Guardian report , published in June 2010 , that the Obama administration , too , had awarded $220 million contracts to Blackwater in exchange for security inside Afghanistan . The reason behind asking for the security of private mercenaries is that these mercenaries do not need pensions , healthcare , and security services . In contrast , their army does . These mercenaries are often not even regarded as casualties in conflicts . A WSJ report published in 2021 states , that when the Taliban took over Afghanistan , Erik Prince of Blackwater was charging $6.5K to get people out of Afghanistan . <p> During the Iraq War , US President George Bush 's father , George H. W. Bush , was a board member of the Carlyle Group . It was the same group that obtained all the defense contracts in the Iraq War . Moreover , then US Vice President Dick Cheney had been head of a company named Halliburton that acquired $7 billion of defense contracts without bidding . It was the same company that received contracts for Iraqi oil restoration . In December 2021 , Business Insider published a report that highlighted at least fifteen politicians and lawmakers who have invested in the US defense policy . <p> It is clear whenever there is conflict , these private capitalist companies , business tycoons , and corrupt and hawkish politicians earn profits . Politicians benefit while shifting the public 's focus away from critical issues like employment , education , and healthcare . As George Orwell emphasizes in his book 1984 , the slogan ' War is Peace ' is a notion designed to perpetuate conflict , primarily to maximize profits and to consolidate and maintain power , rather than to achieve victory .
