<p> MASHHAD - Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Senator Mohammad Ishaq Dar on Tuesday departed here after concluding his two-day visit to Iran . During the visit , he attended the 28th meeting of the ECO Council of Ministers besides meeting the participating leaders as well as the ECO Secretary-General Asad Majeed . <p> He also signed the Charter of the ECO Clean Energy Center- a flagship initiative of ECO in the energy sector to focus on research and development for innovative renewable clean Energy sources to combat climate change . The senior Iranian government officials and Pakistan 's Ambassador to Iran Mudassir Tipu saw off the deputy prime minister at the airport . <p> Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar said that greater connectivity , liberalisation of visa regimes and simplification of border procedure are vital to unlock the geo economic potential of the ECO region . <p> In his remarks at the Meeting of ECO Council of Ministers in Iranian city of Mashhad today , he said this approach will help create mutual interdependencies for sustainable growth , while allowing the member states to devise better strategy for efficient use of energy resources . Ishaq Dar said greater economic cooperation among the ECO nations will bring peace and stability in the region . He said Pakistan is upgrading its rail and road infrastructure to facilitate further smooth flow of goods with the neighboring countries and beyond . <p> The Deputy Prime Minister said ECO 's specialized agencies and regional institutions can play a critical role in advancement of the objectives and ideals of the organization through greater engagements and people to people contacts . <p> Condemning the Israeli genocide in Gaza and its aggression in Lebanon and Syria , Ishaq Dar expressed his concerns over the escalating hostilities in the Middle East , wherein Israel has endangered regional peace and security . He reiterated Pakistan 's call to uphold peace and security in this region , safeguard Lebanon and Syria 's sovereignty and put an end to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Palestine . <p> Meanwhile , Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar signed the Charter of the ECO Clean Energy Center in Mashad on Tuesday at the 28th Meeting of the ECO Council of Ministers . <p> The Charter calls for focusing on research and development for innovative renewable clean energy sources to combat climate change . It will play a bridging role in enhancing regional cooperation for smooth transition to sustainable energy . Besides , it will contribute to the Global Network of Regional Sustainable Energy Centers in the framework of the UN 's Sustainable Energy for All Initiative . Dar reaffirms Pakistan 's commitment to ECO 's vision of regional connectivity , cooperation . Also , Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Senator Muhammad Ishaq Dar on Tuesday met Secretary-General of Economic Cooperation Organisation ( ECO ) Dr Asad Majeed , on the sidelines of the 28th ECO Ministerial Meeting being held here . In the meeting , they discussed the important role played by ECO in fostering regional cooperation by strengthening trade linkages , regional connectivity and people-to-people contacts . <p> Pakistan and Iran agreed to deepen cooperation in all spheres . This came during a meeting between Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar and Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Aragchi in Mashhad , Iran on the sidelines of ECO Council of Ministers meeting . During the meeting , they exchanged views on areas of mutual interest and the latest regional and global developments .
