<h> Propaganda for driving a wedge between the public and the Pakistan Army through Fake News will never be successful , observed Formation Commanders Conference <p> Islamabad , Pakistan : The leadership of the Pakistan Army has expressed grave concern over the malicious pre-planned , coordinated , and premeditated propaganda by certain political elements that reflect an attempt to drive a wedge between the public and the Armed Forces and institutions of Pakistan . <p> The two days 84th Formation Commanders Conference at GHQ was presided over by General Syed Asim Munir , NI ( M ) , Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) while Corps Commanders , Principal Staff Officers , and all Formation Commanders of Pakistan Army attended the forum . <p> It may be noted that the Federal government under Article 245 of the Constitution deployed the Pakistan Army as a support instrument of civil administration in the capital city of Islamabad to secure key government buildings and provide a safe and secure environment when the President of Belarus was visiting Pakistan along with a huge delegation and PTI announced protest at the same time and tried to attack Islamabad and disrupted public life . <p> The forum resolved that the Army remains committed to serving the nation &amp; public and guard against all external and internal threats without any bias and political affiliation , and any attempt to pitch innocent people against each other and use of violence as an instrument for vested gains can never be tolerated . <p> The Forum again observed concerns over the Fake News phenomenon that is hampering the well-being of society The forum emphasized the need to purge Fake News propagation and highlighted that the Government must promulgate and implement stringent laws and regulations to check unfettered and unethical use of freedom of expression to spew venom , lies and sow the seeds of polarization in the society . The forum observed that spreading fake news for vested political/financial interests needs to be identified and brought to justice . <p> Unabated use of Afghan soil against Pakistan by terrorists especially those belonging to Fitna Al Khwarij ( TTP ) was also noted with concern . The forum urged that it is in the interest of both neighboring Islamic countries to rather focus on mutually beneficial engagements and IAG needs to take visible measures to prevent the use of its soil by the terrorists . <p> The forum reiterated its resolve to continue supporting all socioeconomic &amp; development efforts being undertaken in Khyber-Pakhtunkhawa and Balochistan by Federal and Provincial Governments for the well-being of the resilient people of these Provinces who continue to stand tall against the scourge of terrorism . <p> Highlighting the Army 's commitment to socioeconomic progress , the forum resolved to continue to support government efforts in fostering economic growth , cracking down on the illegal spectrum , and eradicating the terror-crime nexus . <p> The forum began by offering Fateha and paying solemn tribute to the martyrs of the Armed Forces , Law Enforcement Agencies , and citizens of Pakistan who sacrificed their lives for the nation 's security and sovereignty , including those Law Enforcement Agencies personnel who embraced martyrdom during recent violent protests in Islamabad . <p> The forum condemned ongoing human rights violations in Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir and reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering political , diplomatic , and moral support for the Kashmiri people . It also expressed solidarity with the Palestinian people , strongly condemning the atrocities in Gaza and supporting international legal measures to end military aggression . <p> Participants were briefed on the prevailing security environment , both external and internal , and reviewed the Army 's operational readiness to address evolving traditional and non-traditional threats . <p> The forum conducted a comprehensive analysis of ongoing counterterrorism operations and resolved to continue neutralizing terrorists , their facilitators , and abettors working at the behest of hostile forces to destabilize Pakistan , with heightened focus on operations against terrorists operating inside Balochistan including BLA Majeed Brigade . <p> Concluding the conference , the COAS emphasized the importance of professionalism , operational readiness , and the Army 's unwavering dedication to ensuring Pakistan 's security and stability , notwithstanding any odds and challenges .
