<p> International Criminal Court Prosecutor Karim Khan will be allowed to stay on in his role at the world 's permanent war crimes tribunal during a UN-led investigation into his alleged sexual misconduct , sources told Reuters on Friday . <p> The UN 's Office of Internal Oversight Services ( OIOS ) , which is leading the inquiry , has started contacting witnesses , a source with direct knowledge of the investigation said . <p> Khan denies the allegations . He has said he will cooperate with an inquiry and that matters relating to the misconduct allegations will be dealt with by his two deputies . <p> Khan 's office and lawyers did not immediately respond to requests for comment . <p> A diplomatic source , who also spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss a confidential investigation , said the court 's governing body wanted the inquiry concluded quickly to limit its impact on several major cases before the Hague-based institution . <p> The ICC 's governing body said last month that it would seek an external investigation into the allegations , " to ensure a fully independent , impartial and fair process " . <p> The ICC is a permanent court that can prosecute individuals for war crimes , crimes against humanity , genocide and crimes of aggression in member states or by their nationals . <p> Khan noted in October when the allegations were first reported that his office had been the target of a " wide range of attacks and threats " that had coincided with several high-profile war crimes investigations . <p> Last month , the court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his former defence chief Yoav Gallant , accusing them of war crimes and crimes against humanity in the Gaza conflict . Israel rejects the allegations . <p> In 2023 , the court ordered the arrest of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Maria Lvova-Belova , Russia 's commissioner for children 's rights , accusing them of the war crime of illegally deporting hundreds of children from Ukraine . They deny the allegations . <p> Several NGOs and members of the prosecutor 's staff have urged Khan to step down during the inquiry to avoid it interfering with work by the office . <p> Asked about the news that he would be allowed to stay on , Alix Vuillemin who leads one of the NGOs that called for Khan to step aside told Reuters that her organisation -- Women 's Initiatives for Gender Justice -- still believes " it would be most gracious " if Khan decided to temporarily step back . <p> The case involving Khan was initially referred to the ICC 's oversight mechanism in May , but it said it would not proceed because the victim had not confirmed the allegations .
