<p> THE " most dangerous man in the world " , according to Noam Chomsky , is back in the White House . His first term in office proved him to be a self-centred , erratic , cunning , destructive and even criminal leader . <p> However , he has been an effective servant of the corporate bosses and the security " deep state " of the US ( led by the Pentagon , CIA and the FBI . ) Together , they rule America in the name of democracy and free enterprise but , in reality , in pursuit of exclusive global hegemony and the maximisation of corporate profits . Trump 's political success represents the political degeneration of the US . <p> Many expect Trump to push for a deal with Putin on Ukraine which would prevent the expansion of Nato to the borders of Russia . ( Unlike Ukraine , Finland has been independent since the Russian revolution . ) The deep state , however , is likely to resist any such peace initiative in conjunction with Nato and European allies . <p> Trump might try to placate the deep state and his allies by linking a deal with Putin on Ukraine with a loosening of Russia 's strategic ties with China . Putin , however , knows how Kissinger 's success in driving a wedge between Moscow and Beijing led to Moscow 's defeat in the Cold War . He will never allow a repeat of this strategic disaster for Russia . <p> Trump 's efforts to cultivate Putin could also alienate Western Europe which supports Ukrainian independence within its present borders , for fear of being outflanked by Russia and China in the whole of Eurasia . Given Trump 's scepticism about Nato , he is unlikely to compensate Europe for such a strategic setback . Accordingly , the question arises : will Trump break Nato or will Nato break Trump ? <p> Trump , like Biden , celebrates the genocide in Gaza , the setback to Hezbollah , and the presumed humiliation of Iran . <p> During Trump 's first term , he treated China as an enemy to be contained . However , his policy of imposing punitive duties on Chinese imports and confronting it in East Asia and the Western Pacific are not likely to be feasible . If US exporters can not import cheaper Chinese inputs for their export products , they will be priced out of foreign markets and American consumers will similarly have to pay higher prices if denied access to Chinese consumer goods . <p> Similarly , Trump 's threats against de-dollarisation are likely to be unavailing . China has developed sufficient countervailing economic and military power and diplomatic influence to render this also an unprofitable option . <p> China will not look for confrontation with the US but , according to Chinese economist Keyu Jin , the likely costs for the US of a policy of confrontation with China should give it pause . While many of the friends and allies of the US in the region fear the rise of China and would welcome the US as a counterweight , very few of them favour a policy of threats and sanctions towards China . <p> Chas Freeman , a respected former US ambassador , says most of the smaller countries of the world wish to maximise their options and room for manoeuvre , not follow one or the other superpower . He says China understands this , but US " liberal democrats " do not , and US " securocrats " do not care to . <p> China is neither an aggressive nor a hegemony-seeking state . But it is a global economic power with vital economic interests spread all over the world , which it will secure , preferably without risking war . Many of these vital interests are located in Africa and the Muslim world and to a great extent are currently protected by the confidence the countries of Africa and the Muslim world repose in China . If the US were to succeed in undermining this confidence , it would gain a very significant strategic advantage . <p> Under these circumstances , one might expect a pragmatic China to seek an accommodation with the US , instead of countering it . This would make sense for China except for the fact that it knows the US seeks exclusive global hegemony and will not countenance China as an equal strategic partner . <p> It won the Cold War against the Soviet Union and it is committed to winning the New Cold War against China . Accordingly , Chinese strategists realise they have little choice but to counter the anti-China policy of the US . <p> Trump , like Biden , celebrates the genocide in Gaza , the setback to Hezbollah , and the presumed humiliation of Iran . He sees this as the victory of his beloved Israel but also of his Arab and Muslim ruling clients over their own people . He rejects a two-state solution to the Palestine problem and will try to resurrect the Abraham Accords to permanently defeat the aspirations of the Arab and Muslim people . <p> The latest developments in Syria confirm this US strategy , which is immediately aimed at discrediting Russia and Iran within the Arab world , but is ultimately aimed at discrediting China within the Muslim world . Beyond that , it represents the unfolding of a Western civilisational challenge to the Muslim world . <p> Likewise , Trump will have no interest in being balanced or ' fair ' in his handling of relations with India and Pakistan . He will continue his ' Howdy Modi to Namaste Trump ' relationship which represented a landmark strategic development in Indo-US relations . India is a de facto strategic ally of the US and participates in other US-led anti-China alliances . <p> The fact that India under Modi , according to its most respected political commentators , has become a ' Muslim hating country ' will not faze Trump unless American Muslims , including Pakistanis , can influence his political decision-making . His recent statements indicate that possibility . <p> While Trump personally admires Imran Khan , he is no friend of Pakistan . There is , nevertheless , speculation he may invite Imran Khan to his inauguration . But it is unclear if Trump will insist on his invitation being respected if Imran Khan 's jailers demur . <p> Finally , could Trump 's primitive political agenda ensure the end of the civilised world by totally reneging on the climate undertakings and responsibilities of the US as his cabinet appointments suggest ? <p> While this is still unclear , the failure of COP29 is a bad omen . The current term of Trump will likely determine whether or not the world enters the stage of irreversible climate heating -- which would generate secondary consequences that could terminate human civilisation long before climate would . <p> The writer is a former ambassador to the US , India and China , and head of UN missions in Iraq and Sudan .
