<h> Human Rights Day &amp; Unfulfilled Promises <h> As Martin Luther King said , " A right delayed is a right denied " . <p> Each year , on the 10th of December , we celebrate International Human Rights Day without being aware of the fundamental rights of human beings . This Universal Declaration of Human Rights , drafted in 1948 , serves and empowers all human beings as well as speaks regarding the protection of their dignity without discrimination . Today , this charter is as relevant as in 1948 and is recorded as the most translated declaration of the United Nations . Historically speaking , as with the advent of globalization , the international world has observed a paradigm shift from international security to human security in order to avoid another great war . With this , the very concept of human rights came into practice . The great wars in history spoke of significant human loss due to world wars between central power states . Now , the irony is that , even with this declaration in practice , human rights are compromised , as in Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir . Now , the players have been changed , and instead of major powers fighting with each other , the oppressors are targeting innocents in weaker states . Now , the question arises whether that compromise of human rights in Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir is a failure of this declaration or not . <p> This year 's theme of the UN human rights campaign focuses on the notion " Our rights , our future , right now , " that every human deserves the safeguard of rights and a future , but the reality is quite the opposite . The painful reality is that International organizations are unable to hold people accountable for human rights violations in Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir . Despite creating a universal foundation , the UDHR 's implementation is contingent upon major powers ' political will and the effectiveness of international organizations like the UN . In these three areas , humanitarian considerations are frequently subordinated to geopolitical goals , allowing offenders to act without repercussions . The international community is even silent on the genocide in Gaza at the hands of Israel ; the idea of addressing their rights feels like a distant dream . It is a moral failure that no one is discussing Gaza . The rights of its citizens are a severe humanitarian crisis rather than a theoretical matter . Basic rights including access to clean water , healthcare , education , freedom of movement , and the right to live and have a future , are denied . The people of Palestine are in despair as a result of bombings and military operations that have destroyed houses , schools , and hospitals . Gaza 's suffering is presented as too complicated , too divisive , or too remote to address ; discussions about human rights frequently focus on politically expedient subjects . This selective empathy exposes a harsh reality : for many , the rights of Palestinians in Gaza are not only at the bottom of the list but are not mentioned at all . <p> Talking about figures , according to the UN Human Rights Chief , 130 Palestinians have been killed per day in Gaza over the last ten months , resulting in 40,000 Palestinian deaths . Over 65,000 people have been wounded , and many more are still missing beneath the debris . The United Nations reported that as of October 2024 , 1.9 million people had been displaced in Gaza by Israeli forces . The populace is now without access to essentials , including food , water , and medical care , due to the massive damage to critical infrastructure , including hospitals , schools , and water systems . <p> Another major battlefield is the Russia- Ukraine conflict , where human rights violations are immensely increasing . Since the beginning of the conflict , there have been serious human rights abuses of civilians on both sides . According to Human Rights Watch , August , September , and October alone witnessed hundreds of civilian deaths in 2024 ; September was one of the bloodiest months , with many people killed as well as wounded . Attacks have affected children and vital civilian infrastructure , such as power stations , in addition to a large number of older people , making the humanitarian catastrophe worse as winter draws near . There have been several reports of public personnel , activists , and civilians being targeted . These atrocities are still being documented by the UN and human rights organizations , but there is still no accountability . This November marked the 1000th day of the Russia-Ukraine conflict , which has caused unprecedented agony , with hundreds of thousands of people murdered and over 14 million displaced . <p> Now let us talk about Kashmir ; following the revocation of the region 's special status in August 2019 , human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir have increased . According to Human Rights Watch , with more than 1,346 habeas corpus petitions filed since 2022 , arbitrary detentions under the Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act ( UAPA ) and the Public Safety Act ( PSA ) have increased dramatically . Internet shutdowns , some lasting more than 500 days , disrupt daily life , and journalists are subjected to intimidation , arrests , and systematic repression . At least 27 journalists have been imprisoned under severe legislation . In addition to rising violence against minorities and government policies seen to be changing the region 's demography , extrajudicial executions , and enforced disappearances are still frequent . Laws like the Armed Forces ( Special Powers ) Act ( AFSPA ) continue unpunished despite worldwide criticism , exacerbating the humanitarian disaster in the area . There have been more than 11,000 documented incidences of sexual assault and systematic torture in Kashmir , including brutal beatings and electrocution . Access to vital services has been negatively hindered by movement restrictions , such as curfews following the 2019 status revocation . <p> In a nutshell , the " Our Rights , Our Future , Right Now " theme of 2024 highlights how vital it is to take immediate action in order to defend and promote human rights across the world , not only theoretically but practically as well . We must understand how human rights may be used to address today 's issues and guarantee that everyone 's rights are recognized and preserved , paving the way for a future marked by equality , justice , and peace . This paper calls for coordinated action to stop such injustices and is consistent with the need to address human rights breaches in war areas like Gaza , Ukraine , and Kashmir . As Martin Luther King said , " A right delayed is a right denied " .
