<h> Apocalypse Now <p> There has never been much doubt that Israel 's actions in Palestine amount to ethnic cleansing and genocide . This reality has been evident since the Nakba of the 1940s and was further cemented by the wars of the 1960s . Israel has systematically pursued an apartheid regime with the ultimate goal of total ethnic cleansing and the eradication of Palestinians from the territories it claims . Yet , Western governments and media persist in disputing this truth , turning a blind eye to the evidence in front of them . <p> For decades , traditional mass media -- dominated by a handful of powerful corporations -- successfully obscured the extent of Israel 's crimes . Today , however , the horrific reality of genocide is being live-streamed directly to our phones . Despite this unfiltered evidence , Western powers urge us to disregard what we see , hear , and know to be true . The International Criminal Court 's rulings are ignored . Statements by United Nations agencies are dismissed . But there is only so long the West can shield Israel from accountability as the rest of the world demands justice . Recently , Amnesty International conducted a nine-month investigation under the Genocide Convention , concluding that Israel has committed -- and continues to commit -- genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The findings are harrowing . Amnesty describes Gaza as an apocalyptic scene where every Palestinian is dehumanised , journalists and aid workers are deliberately targeted , and the destruction of homes and civilian infrastructure is a deliberate strategy . These are not incidental acts of war but calculated policies of annihilation . Given Amnesty 's standing in the West as a respected advocate for human rights , one might hope that its findings would prompt a serious reckoning . Yet , Western media have largely ignored the report , burying its grim conclusions beneath silence . <p> The global outcry against this genocide is deafening , yet the West continues to ignore it -- worse , it enables it .
