<h> Arsonists set Melbourne synagogue ablaze <p> Mask-wearing arsonists set a synagogue ablaze before dawn on Friday in the Australian city of Melbourne , police said , as the attack was widely condemned . <p> The fire broke out at 4:10 am ( 1710 GMT Thursday ) in the Adass Israel Synagogue when some congregants were already inside , police said , gutting much of the building in the southeast Melbourne suburb of Ripponlea . <p> " They appeared to be spreading an accelerant of some type in the premises , " he said . <p> The synagogue was " engulfed in flames " , he added . " We believe it was deliberate . We believe it has been targeted . What we do n't know is why . " Police will increase patrols as they hunt for the arsonists , who were wearing dark clothing , he said . Detectives would be looking at CCTV footage and interviewing any witnesses , Murray said . <p> Television images showed firefighters hosing down the embers through the blackened door of the single-storey building , which has a grey concrete facade . <p> A board member of the synagogue , Benjamin Klein , said a few congregants were sitting and praying inside when the fire started . <p> " They heard loud banging , " Klein told AFP . <p> Liquid was poured inside the synagogue and set alight , he said . <p> " If this had happened an hour later , there would have been hundreds of people inside , " Klein said . <p> The congregants " ran out the back of the synagogue . One man who ran out -- his hand got burnt , " he said . " The fire was extensive , " he told AFP . Books and furniture were destroyed , he said , vowing that the community would " rebuild " . Members of the congregation formed a human chain to remove religious items from the damaged synagogue , including Torah scrolls -- one of which was brought to Australia from Germany in World War II , the Age newspaper reported . Klein said the synagogue had increased security over the past 12 months amid safety concerns , without giving further details . <p> In 1995 , the synagogue was damaged by a deliberately lit fire , with walls and Torah scrolls burned . Klein , who was a child at the time , said he remembered standing inside the synagogue with his grandfather , who he said was a Holocaust survivor . Prime Minister Anthony Albanese " unequivocally " condemned the fire and said federal police would help the state to investigate it . <p> " This violence and intimidation and destruction at a place of worship is an outrage , " Albanese said in a statement . <p> " This attack has risked lives and is clearly aimed at creating fear in the community . " <p> The prime minister said he had " zero tolerance " for anti-Semitism . " It has absolutely no place in Australia . " Israeli President Isaac Herzog said he spoke with Albanese on Friday and expressed his " firm condemnation of the horrific arson attack " . <p> He added that " the increasingly serious antisemitic attacks on the Jewish community required firm and strong action " . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the " heinous act can not be separated from the anti-Israel sentiment emanating from the Australian Labor government " , citing Canberra 's decision to vote for a UN resolution demanding the end of Israel 's " unlawful " occupation of Palestinian territory . The war in Gaza has sparked protests from supporters of Israel and Palestinians in cities around Australia , as in much of the world . Executive Council of Australian Jewry president Daniel Aghion said the community had been living in fear of such an incident since the start of the war in Gaza . " This for us is just evidence of that fear , " he told reporters . <p> " This is something that is the greatest manifestation of what we have been seeing and hearing in terms of threatening e-mails , threatening social media , threatening letters and all sorts of other material . " Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attack which triggered the Gaza war resulted in the deaths of 1,208 people in Israel , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official figures .
