<h> Amnesty says Israel committing genocide in Gaza <p> Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , human rights group Amnesty International concluded in a new report released on Thursday . <p> " Amnesty International 's research has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , " the UK-based organization said in a statement . <p> Its latest report , You Feel Like You Are Subhuman : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza , documents how , during its military offensive launched after the Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas attacks , " Israel has unleashed hell and destruction on Palestinians in Gaza brazenly , continuously and with total impunity . " <p> Since the cross-border incursion , Israel has killed more than 44,000 people in Gaza and reduced the enclave to ruins . <p> " Amnesty International 's report demonstrates that Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . These acts include killings , causing serious bodily or mental harm and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life calculated to bring about their physical destruction . Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them , " said Agnes Callamard , secretary general of Amnesty International . <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now . " <p> Warning that the states continuing to provide arms to Israel are violating their obligation to prevent genocide , and are at risk of becoming complicit in genocide , the non-profit urged Israel 's Western allies , including the US , Germany and EU states , to act now " to bring Israel 's atrocities against Palestinians in Gaza to an immediate end . " <p> " Israel has repeatedly argued that its actions in Gaza are lawful and can be justified by its military goal to eradicate Hamas . But genocidal intent can co-exist alongside military goals and does not need to be Israel 's sole intent , " Agnes added . <p> Amnesty said it examined Israel 's acts in Gaza " closely and in their totality , taking into account their recurrence and simultaneous occurrence , and both their immediate impact and their cumulative and mutually reinforcing consequences . " The organization , according to the statement , considered the scale and severity of the casualties and destruction over time , and also analyzed public statements by officials , finding that prohibited acts were often announced or called for in the first place by high-level officials in charge of the war efforts . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel also faces a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its war on Gaza .
