<p> The Palestinian Civil Emergency Service said around 100,000 people were marooned in Jabalia , Beit Lahiya and Beit Hanoun without medical or food supplies . PHOTO : PEXELS <p> Qatar has recommitted to its role in mediating the Gaza cease-fire negotiations , as announced by Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani during the opening of the 22nd Doha Forum on Saturday . <p> Qatar had suspended its mediation citing a lack of seriousness from parties involved in dialogues <p> This move comes after Qatar had suspended its mediation efforts nearly a month ago , citing a lack of " seriousness " from the parties involved in the negotiations . <p> Sheikh Mohammed emphasized that Qatar 's decision to re-enter the talks was driven by a renewed momentum in the negotiations , particularly following the election of US President Donald Trump . <p> In his address , the Qatari Prime Minister highlighted the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Gaza , stressing that its impact is spreading to neighboring Lebanon and Syria . He underscored the urgent need to make every possible effort to end the suffering of the people in Gaza . <p> The Doha Forum 2024 , which will span two days , is being held in Doha under the theme " The Inevitability of Innovation . " Over 4,500 participants from more than 150 countries , including seven heads of state , seven prime ministers , and 15 foreign ministers , are expected to attend , according to official details . <p> Mediation efforts led by the US , Egypt , and Qatar to reach a cease-fire and a prisoner swap agreement between Israel and Hamas have failed due to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's refusal to halt the ongoing conflict . <p> Israel has been conducting a genocidal war on the Gaza Strip , resulting in the deaths of more than 44,600 people , the majority of whom are women and children , since October 7 , 2023 . <p> Last month , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . <p> Israel is also facing a genocide case at the International Court of Justice for its actions in Gaza .
