<h> Jasleen Kaur wins Turner Prize <p> This year 's Turner Prize has been awarded to artist Jasleen Kaur , reported DW . At 38 , Kaur was the youngest person on the shortlist for the 2024 edition of the prestigious Tate Britain-sponsored art award . The other artists in the running were Pio Abad , Claudette Johnson and Delaine Le Bas . <p> Kaur was honoured for her exhibition titled Alter Altar , featuring sculptures and soundscapes that reflect her background growing up in an Indian Sikh family in Glasgow . <p> The artist incorporates everyday objects in her work . Her winning exhibition included a red Ford Escort covered in a huge white lace doily , an acrylic " sky " hung with ordinary items , a large rug , and a soundtrack featuring worship bells , Sufi Islamic devotional music , Indian harmonium and pop music tracks . <p> Personal , political spiritual <p> The jury praised " the considered way in which Kaur weaves together the personal , political and spiritual ? choreographing a visual and aural experience that suggests both solidarity and joy . " <p> In a video on the Turner Prize website , Kaur speaks of her interest in a Sikh tradition of balancing the political and spiritual , saying , " I 'm really interested in that duality and I 've become quite obsessed with this particular point in my lineage where devotional practices were done across religious lines . That was happening for hundreds of years . But through the violence of borders , the violence of colonialism , the violence of empire , so much of this stuff , it has been impacted . And I 'm obsessed with it because it tells me that there 's a different way to live together . " <p> ' Cut ties with Israel ' <p> That stance seems to have informed Kaur 's acceptance speech at Tate Britain in London on Tuesday evening when she expressed support for pro-Palestinian protesters outside the ceremony . Wearing a scarf with the Palestinian flag , she called for a ceasefire in Gaza and for Britain 's Tate museums to cut ties with donors linked to Israel 's government . <p> " It 's not a radical demand - this should not risk an artist 's career or safety , " she added . <p> Kaur had already communicated her position through an open letter published ahead of the prize ceremony . Titled " Tate : end your complicity in genocide , " the letter has been signed by more than 1,200 artists and art workers . <p> The museum organisation had already said before the ceremony that they would not respond to Kaur 's comments . Alex Farquharson , director of Tate Britain and chair of the Turner Prize jury , said he just wanted to focus on the winner 's art . <p> Prestigious modern art prize <p> Now in its 40th year , the Turner Prize is awarded by Tate Britain annually to an artist either from or working in Britain , and recognises recent work rather than lifetime achievement . The winner receives ? 25,000 ( ? 30,000 , $31,600 ) with the other shortlisted artists each receiving ? 10,000 . The award is named for the 19th-century English painter JMW Turner . Past winners of the Turner Prize have included internationally successful artists such as Damien Hirst , Steve McQueen and Antony Gormley.
