<h> Reception marks Independence Day of Finland <p> Finland 's Ambassador to Pakistan , Hannu Ripatti Friday evening hosted a reception to celebrate 107th Independence Day of his country and to reaffirm his nation 's belief in democracy , equality , fairness and rule of law . <p> Ambassador of the European Union ( EU ) Dr Riina Kionka , ambassadors and diplomats of the EU and other nations attended the reception and greeted Mr and MrsRipatti , Deputy Head of Mission ( DHM ) Anssi Kullberg and their fellow nationals on the auspicious occasion . <p> The reception turned out to be a well-attended yet a ' non-VIP ' affair as there was no minister ' Chief Guest ' nor there were long , tedious speeches that one usually happens to listen to on such occasions . <p> Earlier , national anthems of Finland and Pakistan were played and a cake was also cut to mark the National Day of Finland . <p> The venue was decorated with the colours of Finland , its flag and that of the EU reflecting the lively , rich spirit of the European and the Finnish people . <p> In his brief speech , Ambassador Ripatti said Finland and Pakistan enjoyed cordial relations which could further expand in diverse sectors . <p> The Finnish envoy also mentioned Ukraine and Gaza in his speech and called for end to aggression and bloodshed . <p> It may be mentioned here that Finland ambassador held a productive meeting last month with Minister for Commerce Jam Kamal Khan and discussed with him strategies for expanding trade ties and exploring untapped areas for collaboration . <p> Both sides agreed on tapping unutilized resources and expanding partnership in areas such as education , information technology , textile , health , construction , and social development . <p> According to a senior government official present at the reception , there is a possibility of a government-level delegation from Finland visiting Pakistan which could mark a milestone for both countries with expectations to solidify agreements and increase investment opportunities . <p> One of the key initiatives of the Pak-Finland cooperation is establishment of the National Compliance Council ( NCC ) , which seeks to ensure that local products meet international standards , the official said adding the NCC would work with the provincial and the federal bodies to ' sensitize ' them on the importance of compliance , positioning Pakistani exports to be competitive in international markets . The NCC will also play a crucial role in aligning Pakistan 's products with Europe 's quality standards , he said .
