<p> Israel has watched the rapid overthrow of the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad with a mixture of hope and concern as officials weigh the consequences of one of the most significant strategic shifts in the Middle East in years . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hailed the ousting of Assad as an " historic day " that followed the blows delivered by Israel against Assad 's supporters Iran and Hezbollah in Lebanon that had created a chain reaction throughout the region . <p> " This of course creates new , very important opportunities for the State of Israel . But it is also not without risks , " he said on a visit to the border area on Sunday . <p> Israel has pushed tanks over the border into the buffer zone with Syria to prevent a spillover from the turmoil there , but has declared its intention of staying out of the conflict engulfing its neighbour . <p> Netanyahu said Israel was working on a policy of " good neighbourliness " and would " extend a hand of peace " to Druze , Kurds , Christians and Muslims . <p> " We will closely follow developments . We will do what is necessary to protect our border and protect our security , " he said in a filmed statement . <p> The lightning advance of Syrian rebel forces since their seizure of Aleppo last week has thrown further turmoil into a region already reeling from the shocks of the war in Gaza and Israel 's subsequent campaign against the Iranian-backed Hezbollah movement in Lebanon . <p> " At the moment , if we are n't attacked we will just retain the current situation , " Israel 's Consul General in New York Ofir Akunis told Reuters . <p> " Nobody should think that this threat of the Shiite-Iranian axis of evil has been eliminated entirely , there are changes but we need everyone ... to be even more vigilant about this , " said Akunis . <p> Overnight , the Israeli military said it was not interfering with internal events in Syria but would " operate as long as necessary in order to preserve the buffer zone and defend Israel and its civilians . " <p> The rapid collapse of the Syrian government has presented Israel with a mix of problems and opportunity , said Dina Lisnyansky , a specialist in regional politics at Tel Aviv University . <p> Iran 's inability to protect its long-time ally Assad has underlined the weakness laid bare by Israel 's devastating campaign against Hezbollah , which left the long-time Iranian proxy reeling , its long-feared missile arsenal largely destroyed and most of its top leadership dead . <p> But the advance of a disparate group of rebel forces with roots in the Islamist ideology of Al Qaeda risks re-igniting chaos in Syria and creating a new security threat on Israel 's borders . <p> " It really depends on what happens next in Syria , " Lisnyansky said . " We need to know if it goes to the peaceful side of events or perhaps whether a new civil war could occur in Syria , which would of course endanger our borders , " she said .
