<h> Lebanon Ceasefire <h> The ceasefire is tentative , and its terms are decidedly lopsided . <p> This past week , Israeli , Lebanese , and US leaders were busy congratulating themselves on announcing the completion of an Israeli-Lebanese ceasefire agreement . Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu boasted about Israel 's victory and its status as the unquestioned dominant force throughout the Middle East . Hezbollah declared a " divine victory " greater than their 2006 triumph . Meanwhile , US leaders commended themselves for their leadership in a settlement they hoped would " advance broader peace and prosperity in the region . " <p> To say I 'm sceptical would be an understatement . At least the Lebanese will have some respite from Israel 's relentless bombings , and Israeli forces will begin withdrawing from southern Lebanon . Nevertheless , I 'm not celebrating . Too many have died , too much bitterness has been sown , no lessons have been learned , and too many issues remain unresolved . In announcing the ceasefire , President Biden said that Israelis and Lebanese could return home -- except that , for hundreds of thousands of Lebanese , their homes no longer exist . Further , the ceasefire is tentative , and its terms are decidedly lopsided . <p> Once again , as in 2006 , Hezbollah miscalculated . Demonstrating solidarity with the Palestinians in Gaza may have seemed honourable , but they provoked a foe whose ruthlessness knows no limits and faces no restraints . Israel responded with complete impunity , violating all norms of international law and civilised behaviour . <p> Now , Hezbollah has been weakened , forced to relocate north of the Litani River , and with less claim as a feared deterrent against Israeli dominance . Their ability to use their armed presence as a Praetorian guard protecting the ancien r ? gime in Lebanon is unclear . <p> While Hezbollah certainly plays a role in Iran 's regional strategy , it is also a movement born of internal Lebanese problems . Hezbollah represents an aggrieved Shi'a community that has long felt disadvantaged in Lebanese affairs . They suffered the consequences of Israel 's war with the PLO , with its villages occupied by the Israeli military for decades . When Israel was forced to end its occupation in 2000 , Hezbollah 's stature grew . <p> Most estimates place the Shi'a community as Lebanon 's largest sectarian group . They harbour a deep sense of disenfranchisement and are unwilling , especially after what they have recently endured , to accept a subordinate status . <p> While some say Lebanon must " get it together , " elect a new president , and establish a government , that is not nearly enough . Ending the corrupt , outmoded sectarian system is essential . Whether one blames Hezbollah for this war or not , without real reform , the inequities of Lebanon 's sectarian divisions will cause tensions and disruptions , continuing to risk the country 's recovery . <p> Netanyahu 's boasting about his great successes in defying world opinion and defeating Israel 's foes was both frightening and disturbing . He further threatened to continue using Israel 's unmatched military might to ensure Israel 's security and dominance . But here too , a reckoning must be addressed . <p> As we 've learned from past wars , there are wounds that do not heal . Israel may be feared , but it is hated more than ever . Palestinians , many Lebanese , and Arabs in general are now more hostile to Israel than before . <p> Netanyahu and the majority of Israelis have learned no lessons at all . Their blind self-righteousness , emboldened by US support , has metastasised into a cancerous sense of impunity . Their genocidal campaign in Gaza , hell-bent on the destruction of Hamas , continues , but another goal is increasingly clear : to liquidate the Palestinian presence in most of Gaza and establish a permanent regime there . In the West Bank and East Jerusalem , the Israelis are also determined to subdue , annex , and expand their settlement presence . <p> Despite Israel 's military dominance , Israelis are not safer , falling victim daily to resistance born of anger at their brutal occupation policies . They will not be secure or achieve broader regional acceptance without change . And given the far-right 's hold over Israeli politics , change is not forthcoming . <p> Lebanese and Israeli leadership failures are distressing , but US policymakers ' actions are worse , given their significant responsibility for what has transpired . For decades , the US turned a blind eye to Israeli settlement expansion , policies that sabotaged the peace process , contributed to the collapse of Palestinian governance and Hamas ' rise , the subjugation of the Palestinian people , and the empowerment of Israel 's extremist right wing . Instead of accepting responsibility for this mess , we have armed Israel to the teeth and covered for its crimes in international fora . <p> The " deal " we negotiated between Israel and Lebanon addresses none of the conflict 's root causes and gives Israel a freer hand to pursue its goal of a " pax Israelica , " which will produce greater conflict , not the hoped-for broader regional peace . <p> Dr. James J. ZogbyThe writer is the President of Arab American Institute .
