<h> UN stands paralysed as the world burns <p> Emerged from the charred remains of bombed cities and the cries of a world torn asunder in 1945 , the United Nations today appears increasingly toothless as unprecedented headwinds buffet global peace -- but no crisis seems to merit more than a yawn in the international room that watches the spectacle with a deafening silence . <p> Hands of the mighty few continue to wield the weapon of veto to strangle peace efforts at the divided global table -- a chilling redux of its predecessor , the League of Nations . <p> From attacks on Lebanon 's sovereignty to the ongoing genocide in Gaza and the smouldering crisis in Ukraine , the UN remains paralysed and all its efforts to enforce peace seem to fall victim to greater security architectures . <p> With more than 55 conflicts raging across the globe , including genocidal assaults , the reforms in the UN are already a few thousand lives too late . <p> If any opportunity for meaningful reform ever existed , it vanished almost immediately . A flicker of hope , seen at the second birth of the existing status quo , was almost immediately extinguished . <p> " A new chapter in the history of the United Nations has begun , " proclaimed Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali as the Cold War came to an end , heralding what he described as an " extraordinary opportunity " for reform and progress . <p> However , in an ironic twist , the opportunity seems to have slipped through the cracks . Today , as wars rage and threats multiply , the global political mood has inexplicably turned inward . <p> Soon after the end of the Cold War , civil wars in the Balkans , Africa , and the 1994 Rwandan genocide exposed the UN 's impotence , drawing sharp criticism while exposing a system unable to respond effectively to the crises of the day . <p> Historically , attempts to reform the organisation at the highest levels have largely faltered , exposing layers of internal corruption . Under pressure from the Clinton administration , NATO bypassed the UN Security Council to bomb Kosovo , setting a dangerous precedent for unilateral humanitarian interventions . <p> In the early 2000s , the George W. Bush administration embraced pre-emptive war , casting aside the core principles upon which the UN was founded . <p> Earlier , under Ronald Reagan , the US distanced itself from the International Court of Justice , and later , it snubbed the new International Criminal Court ( ICC ) while weakening global arms control frameworks . <p> Today , Gaza stands as a symbol of devastation -- a site of destruction , starvation , and unspeakable atrocities . The suffering of its people once again raises urgent questions about international justice and exposes the double standards that have become painfully apparent . Israeli missiles , tanks , and airstrikes relentlessly batter the homes of helpless Gazans , serving as a glaring example of the failing global order . <p> Despite this , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's campaign of destruction , which blatantly violates international law , has somehow managed to avoid the scrutiny typically reserved for the actions of other regimes across the world . <p> Rights groups , including UN rapporteurs , have warned that international law is not obsolete , but rather systematically obstructed . Despite the existence of mechanisms to prevent and punish atrocities such as genocide , the UN 's responses have been sluggish and inconsistent . <p> The system remains hamstrung by the influence of powerful states . The ICC , for instance , has faced intense pressure , particularly in its investigations into Palestine , with progress moving at a painfully slow pace . <p> On December 2 , ICC President Tomoko Akane warned that attacks on the tribunal -- largely originating from Washington and Moscow -- were " jeopardising its very existence . " She pointed to " coercive measures , threats , pressure , and acts of sabotage " against the court , though without naming the US and Russia specifically . <p> However , observers note that in contrast , cases like Ukraine have seen swift action , which goes on to reveal the blatant double standards at play . <p> Reforms <p> Meanwhile , recently , regional powers like Brazil , Germany , India , Japan , Nigeria , and South Africa have pushed for an expansion of the Security Council or permanent seats for themselves . <p> Some have proposed that France relinquish its permanent seat to the European Union following Brexit , especially after France and Germany shared the presidency of the Security Council for two months in 2019 . <p> In 2021 , Britain endorsed Germany 's bid for a permanent seat . Additionally , in January 2024 , UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres expressed hope for permanent African representation , citing support from all five permanent members of the Security Council . <p> However , calls for reform have yet to be answered . Many countries are instead focusing on strengthening their diplomatic influence through other international coalitions . <p> The debate over Security Council expansion often centres on the balance between legitimacy and effectiveness . In 2013 , Saudi Arabia made the rare decision to turn down a non-permanent Security Council seat , stating that it would not serve unless reforms were made to the institution . <p> Critics of the current system , including advocates of the Responsibility to Protect ( R2P ) , argue that the P5 's veto power undermines the Security Council 's ability to act on global crises . For instance , Russia 's vetoes over Security Council action on Ukraine have led some to call for Russia 's removal from the P5 . <p> The criticism had already been growing before the invasion ; UN human rights chief Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein ( 2014 -- 2018 ) repeatedly warned that the veto system granted undue power to the P5 , putting the UN 's future at risk without reform . <p> " Africa wants the veto abolished , " said Sierra Leonean President Julius Maada Bio in August 2024 . " However , if UN member states wish to retain the veto , it must be extended to all new permanent members as a matter of justice . " <p> However , reluctance to use force is not limited to the P5 . Aspirants like Brazil , Germany , and India have generally opposed interventions , viewing them as violations of sovereignty . <p> While R2P proponents criticize the Security Council for its lack of political will , others question the UN 's ability to manage conflict , pointing to the peacekeeping failures in Rwanda , Somalia , and the former Yugoslavia during the 1990s . <p> Recently , the UN 's handling of the Gaza Strip has come under scrutiny and has reignited debate for reforms , with critics claiming that its delayed and diluted response to calls for a cease-fire has been woefully insufficient . <p> The truth is , most experts agree , that the system is n't broken -- it is functioning to protect vested interests . <p> While the Council passes resolutions on a variety of global issues , it often finds itself paralysed when the interests of the major powers are at stake . In cases like Russia 's invasion of Ukraine or Israel 's actions in Gaza , the veto power effectively stymies any meaningful response . <p> One of the most glaring issues with the Security Council is the lack of accountability for its decisions . <p> Resolutions may be binding on member states , but they carry little weight unless adopted under Chapter 7 of the UN Charter , which allows for coercive measures such as military intervention or sanctions . Even then , the Council often fails to follow through on its own resolutions . <p> There is also no legal recourse for states or individuals who are subjected to sanctions or other punitive measures imposed by the Council . <p> Reform proposals have been on the table for decades , with two main areas of focus : the composition of the Council and the veto power of the permanent members . The current system , based on the power dynamics of the post-World War II era , is widely considered outdated . However , efforts to amend the UN Charter to address these issues have been repeatedly thwarted by the very powers that benefit from the status quo . <p> France and other states have called for voluntary self-restraint from the permanent members when it comes to using their veto power in cases involving genocide or war crimes , but these calls have largely fallen on deaf ears . <p> The need for reform has never been more urgent . Today , there are 55 armed conflicts worldwide -- the highest number since World War II . <p> The UN , which was established to prevent such atrocities , must undergo major changes to address these challenges . The veto power remains a significant roadblock to global peace and security , with decisions often serving national interests rather than the common good . <p> Proposals from the Lichtenstein Initiative suggest that countries using their veto power explain their actions to the General Assembly , and that vetoes be restricted in cases involving mass atrocities . The reforms are essential if the UN is to regain its credibility and fulfil its original mandate to safeguard peace and justice across the globe . <p> ' Special rights ' <p> In his book , ' No Enchanted Palace ' , Mark Mazower observes : " In other words , the UN , even more than the League , was to be run by the great powers and far less confidence was reposed in international law as a set of norms independent from , and standing above , power politics . " <p> On the contrary , international law now implicitly recognised " special rights " ( and special obligations ) for the " great peace-loving states " . <p> In his thought-provoking book , Mazower argues that the United Nations , much like its predecessor the League of Nations , did not arise from a purely liberal vision of universal rights . Instead , it was a product of Victorian-era " imperial internationalism , " an ideological and organisational extension of the British Empire . <p> He explores the provocative argument through brief portraits of several League of Nations figures who reappeared during the drafting of the UN Charter , most notably Jan Smuts , a South African who championed white racial superiority , and Sir Alfred Zimmern , the leading British proponent of liberal internationalism . Both were part of a broader elite group seeking to " shore up a liberal world order that would be compatible with empire and Anglo-American hegemony " . <p> According to Mazower , Smuts saw the League as a way to ensure " white leadership of the world , " promote a " global civilizing mission , " and support British imperial dominance . His reappearance in the 1940s with a draft preamble for the future UN suggests , for Mazower , that the UN was shaped by the same imperial mindset . <p> Though the UN Charter ultimately affirmed racial equality , and similar ideals were echoed in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights . <p> When the UN first convened at its New York home in October 1946 , the veto was already baked into the Security Council 's structure . The five permanent members were handed this privilege on a silver platter due to their prominence after the Second World War , with the hope that they would act in unison to uphold international peace and security . <p> Fast forward to today , and the picture tells a different story . Israel 's war on Gaza rages on without UN intervention . Resolutions brought to the Security Council are frequently dead on arrival , vetoed by the United States -- just as it has consistently torpedoed prior resolutions sanctioning Israel for its illegal occupation of Palestinian territory .
