<h> Cooperate or Confront ? <p> The United States elected Donald Trump as its 47th president . The future of the US-China relationship under Trump has been a contentious issue . The US and China have one of the most significant bilateral partnerships in the world , which affects not only the welfare of these two but also the rest of the globe , regardless of who is in the White House . Cooperation is required in this situation and is not a choice . <p> With combined economic production exceeding one-third of the global total , China and the US are two of the world 's leading economic powers . American businesses have shown their commitment to collaboration by consistently increasing their investments in the Chinese market , notwithstanding the " China collapse " ideas of some anti-China hawks . <p> For example , in March , Apple opened its second-largest flagship store globally in Shanghai , China . Nearly 90% of the more than 70,000 American businesses invested and operated in China have done so profitably . According to the American Chamber of Commerce in China 's 2024 China Business Climate Survey Report , these businesses reported better financial success in 2023 with higher gains . <p> It would be simpler for Trump to achieve his peace objective if he collaborated with China , a significant Middle Eastern peacemaker . <p> On the other hand , confrontation is detrimental to all parties . For example , the American economy has suffered greatly due to the trade war , which has not addressed the fundamental issues that the tariff battle was intended to address . <p> Furthermore , the US 's unreasonable and excessive pressure on China undermines both nations and the global community 's enduring economic success and technological advancement . The impractical and detrimental strategies intended to sever ties with China have resulted in significant losses for both nations and have impacted others , destabilized the international economic and trade framework and obstructed technological advancement . The trade reciprocity and technological collaboration between the United States and China , as the foremost global economies , are advantageous for sustainable development worldwide . <p> Consequently , China and the United States must not undermine their mutual and enduring interests , nor should they disregard their obligations and roles in global economic recovery . President Xi has emphasized that China-U.S. relations constitute one of the most significant bilateral partnerships globally , impacting both nations ' welfare and humanity 's destiny ; they should facilitate mutual progress rather than obstruct it . <p> Since it began in 2018 , the trade war has caused significant harm to the United States . For the president-elect , if he truly wants to Make America Great Again , a practical strategy -- in this case , increasing trade relations with China -- is far more sensible than small-yard-high-fence protectionist measures . <p> In terms of diplomacy , the Washington-Beijing alliance is crucial for mediating disputes . Trump has called for an immediate halt to the war in Gaza on multiple occasions . Trump promised Americans , " You are going to have peace in the Middle East , " during his last week 's visit to a Lebanese eatery in Dearborn , Michigan . It would be simpler for Trump to achieve his peace objective if he collaborated with China , a significant Middle Eastern peacemaker . <p> In July , 14 Palestinian groups held reconciliation negotiations in Beijing , where top leaders signed the Beijing Declaration on Strengthening Palestinian National Unity and Ending Division , mediated by China . China made an impression on the world last year by acting as a peace broker in the diplomatic relations and reconciliation between Saudi Arabia and Iran . In this regard , a relationship between the US and China is essential to resolving Middle Eastern issues . <p> Furthermore , closing significant climate agreements depends on collaboration between the US and China , which generate the most greenhouse emissions globally . The two nations established their Working Group on Strengthening Climate Action in the 2020s in January of this year . US-China 's in-depth communications on energy transition , low-carbon provinces , states , and the global response to climate-changed cities are crucial . <p> Trump should show that collaboration is advantageous for all nations and that a zero-sum game would only result in a situation where both parties suffer multiple losses . Trump should act as a practical politician . Although there are undoubtedly significant differences between the two nations , this does not stop them from looking for a way to work together . Beijing has reaffirmed that it has no plans to take the US place or challenge it in international affairs . <p> Trump 's administration has created a pivotal juncture in the changing U.S.-China relationship : the decision to work together or conflict . As two of the world 's most powerful economies , the two countries are in a position to resolve urgent global concerns , such as trade disputes , conflict resolution , and climate change . <p> Despite ideological and policy differences , cooperation 's possible benefits greatly exceed a protracted conflict 's drawbacks . A practical strategy emphasizing shared interests and positive interaction can open the door to stability and development for both nations and the global community . <p> The globe now awaits Trump 's decision to embrace collaboration and move away from a zero-sum game in favour of a future of peace and prosperity for everybody .
