<p> After being responsible for the killings of 44,758 Palestinians , attacking healthcare facilities in Gaza 492 times , and invading three sovereign states , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been included in the shortlist as Time 's Person of the Year -- a decision that has raised some eyebrows . <p> According to the publication , it " has named a person , group , or concept that had the biggest impact -- for good or for ill -- on the world over the previous 12 months " as its Person of the Year . <p> In the past , Time has bestowed the recognition upon Adolf Hitler ( 1938 ) , pop icon Taylor Swift ( 2023 ) , Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and the " spirit of Ukraine " ( 2022 ) , tech billionaire Elon Musk ( 2021 ) , and former US president Barack Obama ( 2008 , 2012 ) . <p> Needless to say , the honour simply recognises the individual who had the greatest impact and is not based on whether the influence was positive or negative . However , there is something odd about nominating an individual with arrest warrants from the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , an individual responsible for what Amnesty International has called a genocide in Gaza . <p> Palestinian journalist and writer Hamza Yousuf highlighted that Netanyahu was " the man who said he will turn Gaza into rubble and did precisely that . What a sick world . " <p> His presence on the list provides legitimacy to Bibi 's rampage in not only Gaza , but Lebanon , Iran and now Syria . This is further cemented by the way Time has phrased its reasoning for shortlisting him . <p> " Defying criticism of his war on Hamas , the terrorist organization that killed 1,200 people in an attack against Israel on Oct 7 , 2023 , Netanyahu continued his military assault on the Gaza Strip this year , even as the death toll there rose to 44,056 , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , " the publication detailed . There is an undertone of heroism attributed to Netanyahu , for what is implied to be resilience in the face of Palestinian deaths . <p> He " continued his military assault " despite Palestinian deaths , however , as countless international bodies have detailed , there is an intent to destroy Palestinians , their homes , their livelihoods , their schools and hospitals . <p> Amnesty International , in its latest report , " considers that Israel committed these acts with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , as such . It concludes that Israel has committed genocide in Gaza . " <p> He is undoubtedly , as one X ( formerly Twitter ) user said , " a genocidal monster " . <p> While he is hated globally , Netanyahu is also reviled within Israel . Not only does he face three cases of corruption , including allegations of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust -- he is a politician after all -- 72 per cent of Israelis think Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu needs to resign over the failures of October 7 , according to a Channel 12poll . <p> An article by The Atlantic , titled ' Benjamin Netanyahu Is Israel 's Worst Prime Minister Ever ' , highlighted that he brought far-right extremists into the mainstream government , making himself and the government beholden to them ; his corruption allegations ; and his " terrible security decisions that brought existential danger to the country . <p> " Above all , his selfishness is without parallel : He has put his own interests ahead of Israel 's at every turn . " <p> Time 's nomination appears to be a commemoration of that very selfishness . Let 's not forget , despite his relentless assault on Gaza , 63 Israeli hostages remain in Hamas captivity while Bibi continues to launch airstrikes on displacement tents , killing innocent Palestinian civilians for no apparent reason . <p> Time and again , Time has given a platform to Netanyahu , including their August interview with him where he justified his heinous war crimes . <p> As Jewish Voice for Peace said , the interview normalised the crimes his government is committing in Gaza and " war criminals should n't be given a platform to minimise and deny genocide . " <p> This honour -- and let there be no mistake , if chosen as Person of the Year , the feat will be considered an honour by Netanyahu loyalists -- will only amplify the Zionist message . <p> A renowned publication naming a war-mongering , right-wing extremist as its Person of the Year will validate his crimes in Gaza , Lebanon , Iran and Syria as a brave fight against terrorists ; tens of thousands of civilian deaths be damned . <p> What makes Netanyahu 's shortlisting significantly worse is the appalling lack of Palestinian candidates . Palestinian journalists , first responders , and people running kitchens despite a severe lack of food in Gaza were all snubbed for the person responsible for killing them . <p> A shocking 129 Palestinian and six Lebanese journalists were killed by Israel , according to the Committee to Protect Journalists , while reporting in the conflict-ridden zones , yet not one was considered worthy to be Time 's Person of the Year . <p> The irony of it all is that Palestinian photojournalist Motaz Azaiza was named in the Time 's 100 Most Influential People of 2024 list , while food blogger Hamada Shaqoura was featured on the Time 100 Next 2024 list . And yet , when the time came for Time to nominate its Person of the Year , they seemingly forgot Azaiza , Shaqoura and many other Palestinians who are responsible for raising awareness about the plight of Gaza and the severity of Israel 's assault . <p> Several X users pointed out that journalist Bisan Owda , who received a News Emmy and Peabody for her documentary about life in Gaza and has been featured on several year-ender lists , should have been shortlisted by Time . <p> In spite of the Israeli aggression , the bombings , airstrikes , displacement , and rampant hunger , Owda has continued to make content detailing life under the occupation and its assault . Boasting over four million followers on Instagram , the 27-year-old relentlessly raises her voice for the Palestinian cause , covering the extermination campaign ceaselessly , posting video updates every few days and shedding light on stories that would have otherwise gone untold without her voice . <p> Netizens were also surprised that Gisele Pelicot was n't shortlisted after the Frenchwoman waived her right to anonymity and opted for a public trial when her husband was charged with drugging , raping her , and inviting other men to sexually assault her . <p> The rest of Time 's list was rather abysmal , with only two people of colour nominated from a total of ten shortlisted candidates .
