<p> When Khalid Riaz turns off a dusty , single-lane road into a village in Guzara district , half an hour south of the bustling heart of Herat city in western Afghanistan , he is immediately greeted by a group of children . <p> Some barefoot and sucking their thumbs , the children surround the car as Riaz begins unloading bags of flour and rice from the trunk of a blue sedan . With the help of a fellow volunteer from a nonprofit group called Aseel , Riaz carries the bags over uneven ground , walking carefully through a maze-like jumble of homes built of sand-coloured mud . <p> Looking down at his papers to check if he 's arrived at the correct house , Riaz lowers the food packages onto the fuchsia carpet of a local couple 's living room . That day 's delivery -- an emergency donation of everyday necessities like grains and cooking oil -- will hopefully be enough for the couple and their three young children to survive for the next few months . <p> Riaz sits down to greet the couple . But before he can speak , a dozen women and children begin crowding the doorway . The mother tries to wave them away but they refuse to leave . <p> " Please let me register . I have nine children , " says one of the women , waving a handful of loose papers in Riaz 's face . The air is stifling as more women arrive , all talking over each other as they plead for help . <p> " I 'm sorry , we only have two deliveries today , " mumbles Riaz , the 25-year-old volunteer , shrinking into the corner of the room . <p> Through Aseel , a US nonprofit started by an Afghan entrepreneur , individuals can donate around $100 for a single food package to be sent to a family in Afghanistan . But there are always far more people requiring aid than individuals donating . <p> Reuters travelled around Herat city and surrounding villages in October , accompanying non-government volunteers delivering food and visiting nutrition clinics run by aid organisations like World Vision . <p> Everywhere , there was a sense of desperation : Mothers begging aid workers for food . Young children working physically exhausting jobs on the street to feed their families . And doctors treating malnourished children and worrying about what winter will bring in remote areas where people burn cardboard boxes to keep warm . <p> Afghanistan under the Taliban demonstrates the vital role non-government organisations play in keeping people alive in countries stricken by hunger . Like Aseel , these groups face arduous challenges in delivering aid , especially in conflict-scarred countries where they often navigate harsh government restrictions . <p> Afghanistan poses special difficulties : It has been shut out of development aid , because not a single foreign state officially recognizes the Taliban administration . Its treatment of women is impeding its path to recognition , Western diplomats say . Afghanistan 's leaders have said they respect women 's rights in accordance with their interpretation of Islamic law . <p> An Afghan villager employed on a project run by nonprofit organisation World Vision digs a canal near a riverbed in Khwaja Shahab village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 20 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> These NGOs are part of a sprawling global network geared to detect and fight hunger and famine . Reuters is examining how this system is faring at a time when food crises have put hundreds of millions of people at risk of disease and death in places like Sudan , Gaza , Ethiopia and Afghanistan . <p> More than a third of Afghans are enduring dangerous levels of food deprivation . The world 's leading hunger monitor , the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ( IPC ) , said in a May report that while it saw " marginal improvements " in the food situation , an estimated 14.2 million people were experiencing high levels of acute food insecurity . <p> NGOs are required to comply with the law , said Abdul Rahman Habib , spokesperson for the economy ministry , responding to questions on Taliban rules about women who work in these organisations . But " there are no obstacles to the humanitarian aid activities of NGOs . " Aid , he added , should n't be used as " a tool to achieve political objectives . " <h> ' Real need ' <p> For two decades , Afghanistan was mired in a war that ended abruptly in August 2021 when the United States made its chaotic withdrawal . Today , the country is isolated by sanctions that affect the banking system and other measures . Economic output plunged 27 per cent between 2020 and 2023 . <p> Billions of dollars in foreign aid for development and security were also cut after the US left . That money had formed the backbone of Afghanistan 's government finances . United Nations humanitarian funding is declining , too : As of December , only 45pc of the Afghanistan plan drawn up by the UN and aid organisations for 2024 had been funded , leaving a $1.7 bn shortfall . <p> Other needy places face shortfalls as well . Afghanistan is competing for donor attention as wars in Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan draw humanitarian aid . <p> Workers unload goods from a cart at a wholesale store in Herat , Afghanistan October 22 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Heading back to his car after dropping off the food package at the couple 's home , Aseel 's Riaz is followed by the crowd of women trying to get his attention . <p> " Please , please help us , " begs one woman dressed in a dark purple abaya . <p> At least the women are n't trying to snatch the aid by force , Riaz says . Earlier this year , a few months after an earthquake had levelled homes and killed hundreds in Herat province in late 2023 , angry villagers pelted Riaz with rocks when he told them to wait in an orderly line to receive their aid . It was chaotic , he says , but he can understand why the villagers acted this way . <p> " It 's coming from a place of real need , " he says . <p> Riaz was born only a few years before the US invaded Afghanistan in 2001 . For most of his young life , venturing outside his hometown in Herat , one of Afghanistan 's largest cities , was unthinkably dangerous . He remembers his family worrying every time his late father , an engineer , travelled to remote regions of Afghanistan to build water treatment projects during the war . <p> The end of the war in 2021 has made it safer for Afghans like Riaz to travel around their own country . But many of his old professors and classmates have left , pursuing education and job opportunities abroad . <p> " It 's a fact that no one wants to abandon their home country , " Riaz says . For those who emigrate , " it 's a choice between bad and worse " -- staying in Afghanistan with all its problems or abandoning home and family . <p> Riaz , who studied urban planning at Herat University , dreams of pursuing a master 's degree and eventually creating a nonprofit focused on improving Afghanistan 's polluted environment . To further his education and find people who can help him with his venture , he says he may need to leave , too . <p> Before the Taliban returned , Riaz had taught himself how to play classical guitar and the piano using YouTube videos . Now , there are restrictions on playing music in public . <p> On days he 's not volunteering for Aseel , Riaz tutors students online from home . He recently discovered German philosophers . <p> " Now 's the time to read Nietzsche ! " he laughs , explaining that the philosopher helped him find his own meaning in what sometimes feels like an increasingly meaningless world . <h> Male guardians <p> Policies imposed by the Taliban regarding women have made it more challenging for nonprofits to operate , diplomats and humanitarian officials say . <p> Besides barring girls from attending school beyond the sixth grade and requiring women to cover their faces , the Taliban prohibits women from travelling without a male guardian . It also issued orders to NGOs and the UN to stop their Afghan female staff from working . The government has made some exceptions , like in the healthcare sector . <p> Afghanistan 's donor base is n't expanding , and the " restrictive policies towards women and girls , " along with competing crises around the world , have contributed to a " decrease in funding , " according to Indrika Ratwatte , the UN 's deputy special representative for Afghanistan and humanitarian coordinator for the mission there . <p> The US Agency for International Development says it has provided more than $2bn in humanitarian and basic needs assistance to Afghanistan since 2021 . The humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan was " a direct result of the Taliban 's draconian edicts and policies -- which we condemn , " a spokesperson for the agency said . <p> The economy ministry 's Habib said Afghan women are involved in commercial and service-related activities " in accordance with the applicable regulations , " including health , education and banking . <p> On Aseel 's second delivery of the day , Riaz hangs back while Madina , a 19-year-old female volunteer , approaches a one-room house on the edge of another village outside of Herat . Madina , who prefers to go by her first name for privacy reasons , is joined by her 15-year-old brother Mohammad , who accompanies her as her " mahram , " or male guardian . <p> Inside the home , an exhausted mother sits on tattered carpets next to her two crying children . Flies buzz around the room and settle on empty bowls of food on the ground . The mother , a 21-year-old , lost her husband in the days following the earthquake last October when a destroyed wall collapsed on top of him . Madina fills out a form , then hands the mother an emergency food package . <p> Later , after she returns to a taxi idling outside the home , Madina explains that she can empathise with many of the young women and mothers she encounters because her family is also struggling . <p> " Like the families we distributed aid to today , we also compromise , " she says , sitting in the backseat of the taxi , squeezed in next to her younger brother . Her family can afford a few staples like rice and beans ; meat is too expensive . <p> Madina 's father died two years ago and her mother lost her job at another nonprofit due to a lack of funding . After the Taliban returned to power , they barred girls from secondary school and Madina could n't finish her studies . Now , her family relies on a small stipend she receives from Aseel every time she completes a delivery . <p> Each time Madina volunteers for Aseel , her little brother has to leave classes to accompany her . Looking over at her , Mohammad says he does n't mind . <h> Young breadwinners <p> Back in Herat city , the taxi carrying Madina and her brother speeds down a busy market road . Shops filled with meat and other produce line the street . Despite the appearance of abundance , four wholesalers in Herat 's main market say sales are down significantly since the fall of the previous Afghan government . <p> A survey conducted by a nonprofit initiative called REACH found that more than three-quarters of Afghan families are in debt . Farmers have been hit hard by climate shocks like droughts and floods . That has hurt their ability to cultivate crops -- leaving less money in their pockets . To stock up on food supplies before winter , they now must buy more on credit . <p> An Afghan boy stands next to houses damaged by an earthquake in 2023 , in Guzara district , Herat , Afghanistan , October 19 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Many of these families have fled rural provinces to cities like Herat , where even middle-class Afghans have been pushed into precarity . <p> Nowhere is this more obvious than on the city 's streets , where large numbers of young children can be seen doing an array of menial jobs . Many are the primary breadwinners in their families . <p> As Madina 's taxi drives deeper into the city , more and more young boys can be seen outside , pushing carts laden with fruit , polishing shoes , or baking bread . Many have been forced to leave school to support their families . Most look several years younger than Madina 's brother . <p> Off the busy main road , in a quiet alley , over 20 girls sit behind neat rows of desks facing a whiteboard . The girls are all elementary school age and wear matching white hijabs as they learn Dari phrases in a small classroom . A family charity called Khana e Meher , which translates to " House of Kindness , " runs the school for young girls and boys . The charity 's founder , Abdul Qadir Salehi , is a longtime social worker from Herat . <p> His wife , Najiba , identifies working children from families requiring assistance , and their daughter helps teach classes . The goal of the charity , Salehi says , is to encourage the children 's families to let them study instead of work . Once they finish their studies , Salehi refers the boys to apprenticeships for skilled work like carpentry that can guarantee stability and more income in the future . <p> " Our role is like that of a father and mother for these children because their families do n't have anything to support them , " he says . <p> The children at the school fall into two categories : Those who are neglected by their parents and those who have lost a father or mother . Some of the children are still working : The girls make money cleaning houses or shelling nuts , while the boys work grinding jobs like making mud bricks for construction sites . <p> Even before the Taliban took power , Afghanistan had a large population of working children . But aid workers like Salehi say the number has jumped since 2021 . A 2023 Save the Children survey of six Afghan provinces , which did n't include Herat , found that more than a third of children had been pushed into work to help their families . <p> Inspectors from the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs are monitoring child labor and " advise employers to refrain from hiring children for arduous work , " said ministry spokesperson Samiullah Ibrahimi . Repeat offenders are " referred to judicial authorities . " <p> Hosna Salehi , whose family runs a charity called the House of Kindness , writes on a white board as she teaches children inside a classroom in Herat , Afghanistan , October 27 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> While there are more children in need of help , donations to Salehi 's charity have fallen . Middle-class Afghan families can no longer afford to be generous , he says . Women and men who used to live comfortably off jobs at international nonprofits or had other employment and income can no longer provide support . Before 2021 , Salehi 's school enrolled 90 children . Now , with donations down , he can support 60 . <p> Najiba , dressed in all black with a surgical mask hiding her face , listens to her husband while a young boy lingers next to her skirt . The boy , named Omar , was shining shoes and collecting trash on the street when Najiba noticed him walking with a limp . <p> " This little one , his father was killed , and he 's the oldest in the family , " Najiba says , squeezing the boy 's shoulder . At 11 , Omar is his family 's only son and the sole breadwinner for his mother and two sisters . <p> Like many others , Omar 's family moved to Herat from a province in northern Afghanistan two years ago . <p> Omar would take home 40 or 50 Afghanis ( about 60 to 70 US cents ) after working a full day on the streets , barely enough to buy a few pieces of bread for his family . When Najiba offered to enroll him in the school program , Omar was elated but explained he could n't attend because of his responsibilities . <p> " I asked him , ' Do you go to school , son ? ' and he replied , ' No , I do n't go to school because if I do , who will provide bread for us at home ? ' " <p> When Najiba visited Omar 's home in a particularly impoverished area of Herat city , his mother was using street trash as kindling to bring water to a boil . The family 's only food was bread and tea , Najiba says , pausing to wipe away tears . <p> In the past , the Salehis were able to distribute food to families of the working children twice a month but they now only give out food once a year as they do n't have enough donations . Providing lessons and a haven for children is what they can offer now . <p> " It 's the smallest service we can do for our country , " says Abdul Salehi , her husband . <p> " Imagine Afghanistan as a body with no part unscathed , a body completely covered in wounds , " he says . " We can only bandage some parts of it . " <p> Salehi unlocks his phone to show a stream of desperate messages from people asking for assistance . <p> " In Israel and Palestine there 's a war , where we see blood being shed , " he says , tucking his phone away in his jacket pocket . He pauses and swallows . <p> But the suffering of the Afghan people is invisible , he adds . <p> " They are suffocating and dying from poverty , yet , unfortunately , the world does n't see it . It 's like we 're experiencing the end of the world . " <h> Malnourished children <p> The UN 's World Food Program , a major food aid distributor that plays a vital role in Afghanistan , says a lack of funding means it will reach just over six million hungry people this winter with emergency food aid -- less than half of those who need it . <p> Among children , malnutrition is on the rise . An estimated 2.9m Afghan children will suffer acute malnutrition in 2024 , according to the Humanitarian Response Plan for this year . Another 570,000 children are expected to become malnourished next year , according to Harald Mannhardt , the WFP 's deputy country director for Afghanistan . <p> Doctors at remote clinics run by international nonprofits are among the first to catch the most desperate cases . <p> Just a few minutes outside of Herat city , crowded markets and leafy boulevards give way to vast skies and sand-colored dwellings that look as though they 're carved into the arid landscape . Goats and sheep roam over desert terrain that resembles the rocky surface of Mars . <p> About two hours drive along the wide asphalt road that connects Herat to the Turkmenistan border is a health clinic called Yaka Dokan . It 's run by World Vision , a nonprofit active in Afghanistan for over two decades . The clinic , housed in several adjoining white shipping containers , serves 16 villages with a combined population of 5,400 people . It sees up to 150 patients a day , mostly children . <p> Afghan women and children wait for their turn to see a doctor at Yaka Dokan health clinic run by nonprofit organisation World Vision , in Yaka Dokan village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 23 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> One weekday in October , more than an hour before the Yaka Dokan clinic is scheduled to open , a dozen women in billowing black burqas wait outside the gates . They huddle against the white wall circling the clinic , trying to shield their children from the bitter wind . By the time World Vision doctors drive up to the clinic in their minivan , more than 20 women and a dozen of their male guardians are assembled outside . <p> A few minutes after the clinic opens , dozens of women with babies and toddlers are queued up outside the office of Gulnisa , a 28-year-old doctor who serves as a community nutrition promoter for World Vision . Gulnisa and the other doctors interviewed for this story asked that only their first names be used , in line with the media policies of their organisations . <p> Wearing a white coat and a tartan scarf to cover her hair , she begins pulling out worn notebooks . A mother cradles a nine-month-old baby while another child sits quietly beside her . <p> Gulnisa instructs the mother to roll up the baby 's sleeves so she can use a colour-coded tape to measure the boy 's upper arm . The baby begins to wail loudly as the doctor helps the mother lay him on a small scale . A wooden measuring device is then used to check his height . Once the boy is back in the mother 's arms , Gulnisa carefully touches his feet to see if there is any swelling visible on his limbs , an indicator of acute malnutrition . The doctor checks the measurements against a chart , which helps her determine whether the boy is malnourished . <p> Gulnisa , 28 , a doctor who serves as a community nutrition promoter for nonprofit organisation World Vision , measures the height of a child to check if they are malnourished at Yaka Dokan health clinic run by the organisation , in Yaka Dokan village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 23 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> The baby is too small for his age and is on the cusp of moderate malnutrition , Gulnisa tells the mother . <p> " He cries day and night and does n't sleep , " the mother says as she tries to hold the wiggling child in her arms . They have traveled from a village several hours away . <p> The doctor hands the mother a plastic bag with 15 sachets of therapeutic food supplements . Leaning over her desk , she demonstrates how to knead the small red and white sachet before cutting it open to squeeze out the supplement . <p> " Before giving him the food , you need to wash your hands with soap . Not only your own hands , but you must also wash your child 's hands , " Gulnisa says , explaining in detail how to also try and feed the boy soft foods like porridge . <p> " You must also collect the packaging and bring it with you when you come back . Every 15 days , which is two weeks later , you should come here on a Wednesday , " she says . " What day should you come ? How many days later ? " <p> " After 15 days , " the mother repeats after her . <p> " You must give the food only to this child and no one else , understand ? Who should you give the food to , Auntie ? " <p> If doctors were to screen an average of about 50 patients in a day , they 'd find 20 , sometimes 25 cases of moderate malnutrition , says Nisar Ahmad , another doctor at the clinic . An additional 10 patients or less would have severe malnutrition . Of those most severe cases , three or four of the children will have complications caused by a lowered immune system that need to be referred to a larger hospital . <p> " The situation is moving toward a crisis , " says Nisar Ahmad , 31 . <p> Both doctors worry about what the winter will bring . Gulnisa spent last winter working in an even more remote clinic several hours northeast of Herat city . She says many families in far-lying villages there only had dry bread or potatoes to eat . <p> " In the villages where we work , things have gotten worse , " Gulnisa says . <p> Since the Taliban returned to power , the number of sites treating malnutrition has quadrupled , health ministry spokesperson Sharafat Zaman told Reuters . " We are fully prepared for this winter , " he said . <h> ' We have nothing ' <p> When doctors at rural clinics like Yaka Dokan find a child suffering from severe malnutrition with medical complications , they are referred to the Herat Regional Hospital , where medical charity M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res ( Doctors Without Borders , or MSF ) operates a pediatric emergency room , an intensive care unit and an inpatient therapeutic feeding center . <p> On a late October day , the hospital , which stands behind a brick and concrete gate in the center of the city , is a hub of activity . Women and children pace around the parking lot , walking past rows of tents set up by families who can not afford to stay elsewhere while their child receives treatment . <p> Inside , MSF doctors rush around the intensive care unit and adjoining feeding center , where dozens of babies and toddlers lie in cots next to concerned mothers and grandmothers . <p> Sediqa , an MSF doctor who works in the emergency room , says the number of patients with severe acute malnutrition and other complications is increasing daily . These children , most under two , have chronic conditions like congenital heart disease and neurological disorders , as well as severe issues like pneumonia , measles or sepsis . <p> Sediqa , an MSF doctor , examines a malnourished child as the child 's mother sits beside them in the paediatric department of Herat Regional Hospital , supported by Medecins Sans Frontieres ( MSF ) also known as Doctors Without Borders in Herat , Afghanistan , October 28 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Some of the children require surgery or other treatments that are n't readily available in Afghanistan . Those with congenital heart defects in the MSF-supported pediatric department are usually put on a waitlist for surgery . In early November , 41 were awaiting cardiac operations . <p> " The capacity of treatment and surgery is low , so we have lots of patients who are dying while they are on the waitlist , " Sediqa , 26 , says . <p> She makes her rounds in one of the wards of the therapeutic feeding center , where four babies lie in their cots . She leans over one , a two-and-a-half-month-old called Haliza , who balls her fists and cries when the doctor carefully lifts her yellow lace dress to check her heartbeat . A tiny breathing tube sits under her nose . <p> The baby 's grandmother , who has traveled eight hours by bus from rural Farsi district to bring Haliza to the hospital , says the girl is suffering from pneumonia and convulsions . Gaunt and clad in a floor-length black abaya , the grandmother says it 's the second time the baby has been admitted to the ward for malnutrition . <p> Last time , Haliza spent 19 days here , she says . <p> Looking over at the hospital staff , the grandmother says her seven-year-old niece back in the family 's village is also malnourished . <p> " We took her to the doctor many times , but she still has n't recovered , " she says . " You must help , " she says , with more urgency . " We have nothing . " <p> Header Image : Afghan children play outside a mud house in Markhor-e-Sufla village , Herat , Afghanistan , October 26 , 2024. -- Reuters
