<h> Out in the cold <p> Gaza is in ruins . Pummeled daily by Israeli airstrikes and under permanent siege by the Zionist entity , the people endure some of the harshest conditions imaginable . Yet the world and Muslim countries hardly raise a finger against the genocide taking place . Nearly one million displaced Palestinians are at risk of extreme cold and rain this winter , the UN Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) has warned . According to UNRWA , only 23% of the needs for shelter and protection from the harsh winter elements have been met , leaving almost a million displaced people vulnerable to exposure . With homes and neighbourhoods reduced to rubble by continuous Israeli airstrikes , many families are left to scavenge what little remains of their homes , seeking refuge in conditions that are already unbearable . The threat of cold and rain exacerbates their suffering , making it nearly impossible to survive without urgent aid . The lack of adequate shelter and supplies underscores the international community 's failure to address the dire needs of the people in Gaza . <p> The situation in Gaza is not just about the immediate physical dangers posed by the cold . The longer-term consequences of this war are equally devastating . The destruction of vital infrastructure , such as hospitals , schools and power plants , has crippled the region 's ability to function . The healthcare system is overwhelmed , unable to treat the thousands of injured civilians . The international community must prioritise the protection of civilians and ensure that aid reaches those who need it most . It is not enough to simply condemn the violence ; action is needed to alleviate the suffering of innocent Palestinians whose lives have been torn apart . Another UN General Assembly vote for an ' unconditional ' ceasefire in Gaza , scheduled yesterday , is unlikely to meet a fate other than being vetoed in support of Israel , as on previous occasions . The world needs to do more for Gaza and all powers need to come together to end the suffering of the Palestinian people .
