<h> Khamenei accuses US , Israel of plotting Bashar al-Assad 's downfall <p> " Until today , the victory has been for the Palestinian resistance and Hezbollah , " Khamenei said . PHOTO : AFP <p> Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has accused the United States and Israel of orchestrating the toppling of former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , while also blaming a " neighbouring " country of Syria . <p> " There should be no doubt that what happened in Syria was the result of a joint American-Zionist plot , " said Khamenei , addressing the fall of al-Assad for the first time in a speech delivered in Tehran on Wednesday . <p> While emphasising that the US and Israel were the main conspirators , Khamenei also alluded to the role played by " a neighbouring state of Syria " , according to state news agency IRNA . <p> The neighbour had a " clear role and continues to do so , " said Khamenei , without naming the country . <p> Khamenei also said that Iranian intelligence had warned the Syrian government about threats to its stability over the past three months , adding that Damascus had " neglected the enemy " . <p> Blow to ' axis of resistance ' <p> Syrian rebels ' lightning push to the capital , Damascus , from their strongholds in the northwest ended the decades-long rule of al-Assad 's family . <p> Iran and Russia had propped up al-Assad 's rule after the eruption of war in 2011 with military and political support , as well as fighters and airpower . <p> On Tuesday , the commander of Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , Hossein Salami , said no Iranian forces remained in Syria . <p> Al-Assad had long played a strategic role in the Iran-led " axis of resistance " against US and Israeli influence in the region , which includes armed groups . <p> Speaking hours after al-Assad fled Syria on Sunday , US President Joe Biden claimed the end of al-Assad 's rule was partly due to US backing for Israel 's war on Gaza and its fight against Hezbollah in Lebanon , as well as support for groups in Syria and Iraq that weakened Iran . <p> He also pointed to US support for Ukraine 's war against Russia 's invasion , which siphoned resources from Moscow , and said US forces would remain in northeast Syria . <p> Israel , meanwhile , has carried out hundreds of air attacks across Syria since the overthrowing of al-Assad , hitting key military sites , while its troops have moved into a demilitarised zone inside Syria , including the Syrian side of the strategic Mount Hermon that overlooks Damascus . <p> But Khamenei on Wednesday said events in Syria would not diminish Iran 's power , dismissing suggestions that the country would be weakened as " ignorant " and arguing that resistance would grow . <p> " The more pressure you apply , the stronger it becomes ; the more crimes you commit , the more motivated it becomes ; the more you fight them , the more expanded it becomes , " he said . <p> Hours after al-Assad 's fall , Iran said it expected relations with Damascus to continue , based on the two countries ' " far-sighted and wise approach " and called for the establishment of an inclusive government representing all segments of Syrian society . <p> Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has accused the United States and Israel of orchestrating the downfall of former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , while also implicating a " neighbouring " country of Syria . In a speech delivered in Tehran on Wednesday , Khamenei said : " There should be no doubt that what happened in Syria was the result of a joint American-Zionist plot . " This marks Khamenei 's first public comments on al-Assad 's fall . <p> lthough Khamenei emphasised the role of the US and Israel , he also hinted at the involvement of a neighbouring state , which he did not name . According to the state news agency IRNA , Khamenei stated that this neighbouring country had played " a clear role and continues to do so . " <p> Khamenei also claimed that Iranian intelligence had warned Syria about threats to its stability over the past three months , accusing the Syrian government of having " neglected the enemy . " <p> The fall of al-Assad 's government , which marked the end of decades of rule by his family , came after a Syrian rebel offensive to capture Damascus from their strongholds in the northwest . Iran and Russia had been key backers of al-Assad , providing military and political support as well as fighters and airpower since the outbreak of the civil war in 2011 . <p> On Tuesday , Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps commander , Hossein Salami , declared that no Iranian forces remained in Syria . Al-Assad had long been a key figure in the Iran-led " axis of resistance " against US and Israeli influence in the Middle East , which also includes various armed groups . <p> US President Joe Biden claimed responsibility for al-Assad 's fall , stating that it was partly due to US support for Israel 's actions in Gaza , the fight against Hezbollah in Lebanon , and assistance to groups in Syria and Iraq that undermined Iranian influence . He also highlighted US support for Ukraine 's war against Russia , which had drained resources from Moscow . Biden added that US forces would remain in northeast Syria . <p> Israel , for its part , has carried out hundreds of airstrikes across Syria since the toppling of al-Assad , targeting key military sites . Israeli troops have also entered a demilitarised zone in Syria , including the strategic Mount Hermon overlooking Damascus . <p> However , Khamenei dismissed suggestions that the events in Syria would diminish Iran 's power . Referring to calls for Iran 's weakening as " ignorant , " he insisted that pressure on Iran would only strengthen its resolve . " The more pressure you apply , the stronger it becomes ; the more crimes you commit , the more motivated it becomes ; the more you fight them , the more expanded it becomes , " he said . <p> In response to al-Assad 's departure , Iran expressed hope for the continuation of its relations with Damascus , calling for the formation of an inclusive Syrian government representing all segments of society .
