<p> It was a protracted struggle that had left hundreds of thousands of people dead and displaced millions . But the end was swift . A demoralised Syrian army melted away in the face of the rebel onslaught . Bashar al-Assad has fled and the country awaits a new political order . <p> What happens next will decide the fate of the fragmented nation and will also have far-reaching geopolitical implications that could drastically alter the political map of the Middle East . Syria has long been a geopolitical cauldron with various contending regional and world powers being directly or indirectly involved in its civil war . The overthrow of the Assad regime has drastically changed the regional power matrix . <p> A new power game seems to have already started , with some regional countries vying for influence over the course of Syria 's political trajectory . The fall of one of the world 's longest dictatorships in modern times has come at a point when the entire region is in deep turmoil . Israel 's ongoing genocidal war in Gaza and its military action against Lebanon has made the situation extremely dangerous . The Zionist regime , which has been engaged in an undeclared war against Syria for long , is now taking full advantage of the prevailing uncertainty there and has extended its occupation of the border region . Israel 's latest military action has alarmed countries in the neighbourhood . <p> However , the most important question is what happens in Syria now . So far , no major incident of violence has been reported from any part of the country after the fall of Bashar al-Assad . But the situation is tenuous , with disparate rebel militias controlling the country . Will these groups , with their differing interests and external links , agree on a common agenda for a future political set-up ? Some of them are proxies of regional countries , and not independent actors . That makes any transition extremely complex . <p> Transition will not be easy in a divided country that has just evicted a decades-old dictatorship . <p> The most powerful group that has spearheaded the uprising is the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . A breakaway faction of Al Qaeda , it was designated a terrorist group by the US , Turkiye and several other countries . Although the leader of the group , Ahmed al-Sharaa , whose nom de guerre is Abu Mohammed al-Jolani , seems to have moderated his views , his past association with transnational jihadi organisations , including the so-called Islamic State group , has attracted international suspicion . <p> There is also a fear that the change could lead to another period of authoritarian rule dominated by radical Islamists . But the recent statement by the group leadership may dispel those concerns . Moreover , the other groups which dominate parts of the country may not allow the establishment of a radical religious order . <p> Among other groups who played a key role in bringing down the Assad regime are the Syrian National Army , backed by Turkiye , and the Kurdish Peoples Protection Units , that controls a part of the territory in the north . It remains to be seen if these diverse groups can agree on a democratic political process . A transitional set-up seems to be in the works but the next biggest challenge would be to hold elections to establish a representative democratic order in the country . <p> It will certainly not be easy in a divided country that has just evicted a family dictatorship of long standing . Transition is never easy in a fractured political environment with a complex mosaic of power groups espousing diverse ideologies and interests . The deep involvement of external forces will be a strong factor in how things develop in post-revolution Syria . <p> The overthrow of the Assad regime will reshape regional politics . Several countries , including the US , Russia , Iran , Israel and Turkiye , have a military presence in Syria . Russia and Iran had for long militarily backed the Assad regime in fighting the rebellion that begun 13 years ago . With direct military support from these two countries , the regime managed to contain the revolt but could not entirely crush the rebel forces . The inability of these countries to come to the regime 's rescue at the end led to Assad 's fall . <p> While Russia is bogged down in its own war in Ukraine , a badly weakened Iran , facing a setback in Israel 's war against Tehran 's close ally Hezbollah in Lebanon , was not in a position to help the tottering regime . Tehran seems to have come out as the biggest loser in the fast shifting sands of regional geopolitics in the aftermath of the Syrian dictatorship 's overthrow . <p> Moscow is still keeping its airbase and naval facility in the country , but it will not be possible for it to maintain its military presence in the country for long . Moscow 's stakes have further fallen with its decision to provide asylum to the ousted Syrian leader and his family . Among the regional countries , Turkiye perhaps wields more power to influence the future course of politics in Syria , given its significant clout with some of the rebel groups in control of certain areas in the country . Ankara also has a military presence in Syrian territory . <p> America , too , has maintained a military base in Syria 's Kurdistan region , with some troops there ostensibly to counter the IS , which is still active in some parts of the country . But Israel remains the biggest destabilising factor in the region , taking full advantage of the uncertain situation in Syria . <p> Since the fall of the Assad government , Israel has seized more territory in Syria 's Golan Heights , tearing up the 1974 agreement between the two countries . But it does n't stop there . Some ministers of Israel 's far-right government are now talking about extending the push further to Damascus . Meanwhile , Israel has continued air strikes on military bases deep inside Syria . It is a dangerous situation . Such bellicosity could affect Syria 's search for political stability and threaten the security of the entire region .
