<h> Israeli attack claims 29 more lives in northern , central Gaza <p> Israeli attacks on the northern and central regions of the Gaza Strip have killed dozens of people , medical sources report , as the bombardment across the besieged territory intensifies and the humanitarian crisis continues to worsen . <p> In the early hours of Wednesday , the Israeli army bombed a residential building in Beit Lahiya , located near Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , which has been under an even tighter siege for more than two months . The strike killed at least 20 people , including women and children , but local reports suggest the death toll could rise . The building , home to the Abu Tarabish family , had been sheltering at least 30 displaced people at the time of the attack . <p> Footage obtained by Al Jazeera showed residents using their bare hands to pull large chunks of concrete from the rubble . A child 's body was among those recovered from the debris . <p> " This residential building has been turned into ruin . The smoke is still rising , " said journalist Moath Kahlout , reporting from the scene . " Due to a shortage of rescue teams , the neighbours are trying to pull the dead bodies from under the rubble . " <p> Later in the day , another attack on a residential home in the densely populated Nuseirat refugee camp resulted in the deaths of at least seven people , all members of the same family . In addition , the Palestinian Civil Emergency Service reported that two more people were killed by an Israeli airstrike on a house in Gaza City . <p> ' No letup ' in attacks amid growing crisis <p> Al Jazeera 's Hani Mahmoud , reporting from Deir el-Balah in central Gaza , described the ongoing violence amid " a deepening humanitarian crisis . " " There are no basic supplies available , markets are depleted and the crisis keeps continuing to evolve in a devastating way , " he said , highlighting that the attacks show " no letup . " <p> The Israeli military has not yet commented on the latest attacks . Over the past 14 months , Israeli strikes on Gaza have killed at least 44,805 people and injured 106,257 , according to local reports . <p> The escalation follows a deadly assault by Hamas on October 7 , 2023 , which left 1,139 people dead in Israel and more than 200 taken hostage . Israel launched its intense military campaign in response . <p> Ceasefire efforts continue <p> As the attacks persist , efforts to broker a ceasefire continue . US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is set to visit Israel this week to discuss a potential truce and other regional issues . According to National Security Council spokesman Sean Savett , Sullivan will meet with Israeli officials to discuss " efforts to reach a hostage release and ceasefire deal in Gaza , the latest developments in Syria , and for discussions about Lebanon and Iran . "
