<p> " We honour the extraordinary resilience , bravery and courage of journalists working in the most perilous conditions to document the realities of the Gaza crisis . " <p> Mohamed Duar , Amnesty International Australia 's Occupied Palestinian Territory spokesperson , said , " Freedom of the press is essential to enable democratic and free societies . Freedom of information is a fundamental human right . Journalists and the media are crucial to ensure transparency and accountability . Yet media freedom and the safety of journalists are under threat around the globe . Each attack on journalists is an attack on press , freedom and truth . Journalists are not and should never be a target . " <p> Owda , 27 , thanked the organisation for the recognition and for its efforts in shedding light on the situation in Gaza . <p> " I 'm here , in front of you , surviving more than 420 days . Surviving being killed by bombing , while I am helping my people by spreading the truth and documenting the genocide . I do n't find anything more honourable on earth than defending the rights of defenceless people , the oppressed people . " <p> Alaqad said the award was a powerful reminder that the journalists ' work was far from over and it fueled her determination to continue advocating for Palestinians and ensuring their voices are never forgotten . <p> He added that the day the award was conferred on him coincided with the day of his father 's martyrdom after Israeli forces targeted his house . Al-Sharif also dedicated the award to his father . <p> " What I hope to achieve is to provide international protection for the Palestinian journalists so they can continue , until their last breath , to transmit images and words from inside Gaza , in the complete absence of foreign and Western media . " <p> Shihab-Eldin said he was honoured and humbled to be among the bravest journalists risking everything to ensure people were informed . <p> " They have taught me so much about what it means to bear witness , and what it means to be human . " <p> The awards come shortly after Amnesty International , in a recent report , stated that it found " sufficient basis to conclude that Israel has committed and is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip . "
