<h> Fleeing Assad leaves many unanswered questions <p> The writer is a geopolitical analyst . She also writes at globaltab.net and tweets @AneelaShahzad <p> On November 27 , a peace deal was struck between Lebanon and Israel . There was concern as to what would become of Gaza if Hezbollah 's arms had been tied . Ironically , the same day , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) started its Aleppo offensive . <p> HTS , a militant group that had previously been part of al-Nusra , ISIS and al-Qaeda at different times , has had a stronghold in Idlib since 2017 . While Iranian-backed militia wiped out ISIS from vast Syrian territories , the HTS was provided cover in Idlib under the Astana Process . This meant that though the US withdrew from Syria in 2019 , it still kept some bases there . Moreover , ISIS was still there in pockets ; Kurdish-led SDF and some Turkish-backed militias covered the whole north ; several militias under HTS umbrella were in Idlib ; and several other militias remained in Daraa , near the border with Israel and Jordan - meaning that the civil war had never ended , it had only subsided . <p> But there are several unanswered questions here . How does the HTS offensive connect with the Lebanon-Israel deal ? How has it been that the same Hezbollah that kept punishing Israel for its Gaza War since day one had suddenly decided to go quiet ? How is it that the same Iran and Russia that ensured Assad 's power throughout the Arab Spring and to this day suddenly decided to vanish from the scene ? How is it that several dozen Iran-backed militias spread in Iraq and Syria just went underground , and not a single fighter jet from the three bases Syria had provided Russia lifted into air ? How is it that a handful of loosely held militias , between ten and thirty thousand in strength , swayed the whole of Syria in less than ten days without facing the slightest resistance - even from the 170,000-strong Syrian Army ? <p> True , HTS was a US asset , and Turkey had influence upon it ; true that Turkey could provide direct aid to Idlib across its border . But does that mean that Turkey , just to prove its friendship with NATO , would forsake its deepening trade and strategic relations with Russia and China in the last decade . Does that mean that the same Turkey that was a part of the Astana Process along with Iran and Russia , and that ensured Western forces were driven out of Syria , and that had done the same before , in Libya in coordination with Russia - would all of a sudden allow Western interests to re-sprout in Syria ? All this is beyond probable ! <p> What is rather probable is that after the Saudi-Iran rapprochement , all the players of the Middle East and their immediate neighbours were finally able to sit together and jot a plan for the security of their region . This was the first time when the axis of resistance was bringing physical harm to Israel , and the Arabs were constantly endorsing their efforts in the diplomatic zones . There was also news of constant and frequent diplomacy between the Arabs , the Iranians and the Turks . So , instead of the possibility that each of these players was going opposite directions , it is more plausible that they were actually looking for a concerted pathway . <p> All these players were also looking forward to a coming Asian Century that promises progress and development in concert with platforms like BRI , BRICS , SPIEF . And for that to happen they would need peaceful , sovereign nations in the region - a region not covered with clouds of war all the time . And at long last with the end of the Saudi-Iran rivalry , this seemed possible . So , they all sat down to write a dramatic script that would ensure : the end of an era of a destabilised , militia-infested Syria ; end of the Gaza War ; and end of Western maneuvering in their regions . <p> If this assessment is correct then what actually happened was an understanding that the HTS will be allowed to sweep across the country sans-resistance , and Assad would be safely brought into Russia . And before that , there would have been an agreement with Israel that Hezbollah will retreat first , and within a defined time , Israel will also retreat from Gaza . <p> But if Gaza is thrown away in ashes , and the Palestinians are back-stabbed by the Ummah once again , then we would know that whatever the plan was , it was evil - and evil does not beget goodness . So without resolving Palestine , none of the Arabs , the Persians , the Russians and the Chinese will get the peace required for fulfilment of their dreams of progress . <p> In any case , the idea that this big drama could be single-handedly Turkey 's idea or that Turkey is secretly aligned to the US and Israel simply does n't add up . One must be reminded of China establishing manufacturing facilities for electric vehicles and smartphones as well as energy infrastructure in Turkey . The Turk Stream pipeline operating since 2020 , which brings Russian gas to Turkey and Europe via Turkey , is also a game changer deal for Turkey . Turkey 's previous actions have constantly hinted that it cares least for NATO and wants BRICS membership . <p> So , only time will tell whether this been a victory for the US or Israel . But can this be a trap for the US and Israel ? Perhaps yes . Because we have seen Turkey and Russia play a similar game in Libya : Russia came to the aid of Khalifa Haftar and Turkey came to the aid of the Tripoli government ; and in all this new chaos , Western players found that their role had been snatched away from them in Libya . <p> Perhaps this analysis is too optimistic . But if things happened this way , perhaps the regional players around the Middle East would have saved the region from a long and devastating war-scenario , or perhaps they would have saved the world from a third world war .
