<p> Pakistan and the European Union have agreed to continue cooperation on number of issues including emerging challenges of food , energy security , and climate change . <p> According to a joint declaration issued today regarding the 14th Pakistan-European Union Joint Commission held in Islamabad , the two sides underlined sustained engagement , particularly in areas such as trade , migration , human rights , political , economic and development cooperation with a focus on the Global Gateway strategy . <p> The European Union reiterated the importance of political pluralism , democratic values , independent media , vibrant civil society , judicial independence , and international human rights standards , which are key for democratic elections . <p> Both sides reaffirmed their commitment to the protection of all human rights , including women and children 's rights , labour and migrant rights , as well as fundamental freedoms , such as freedom of expression and opinion including growing problem of disinformation . <p> Pakistan and the EU also exchanged views on freedom of religion or belief and the rights of persons belonging to minorities and vulnerable groups and concerns about anti-Muslim hatred . <p> The European Union expressed its continued support to Pakistan in developing green and clean energy . <p> Reiterating their commitment to the Pakistan-EU Strategic Engagement Plan , signed in 2019 , Pakistan and the European Union reviewed the state of its implementation . <p> The European Union reiterated its appreciation for Pakistan 's generosity in hosting Afghan refugees over the decades and welcomed the decision to extend the validity of Proof of Registrations cards of Afghan nationals residing in Pakistan until June 30 , 2025 . <p> Pakistan also called for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza and complete withdrawal of Israeli troops from the occupied Arab territories . <p> The European Union reiterated its call for an urgent ceasefire in Gaza ; the unconditional release of all hostages ; and the urgent and unimpeded humanitarian access and distribution at scale of humanitarian assistance ; as well as an enduring end to hostilities in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2735 . <p> Both Pakistan and the European Union stressed the need to find peaceful solutions to all conflicts , in full respect of the principles of international law and the UN Charter . <p> It was agreed to hold the next session of the EU-Pakistan Joint Commission in Brussels next year .
