<h> Syria : from tyranny to more tyranny <p> The writer is a senior journalist and analyst . He can be reached at iamehkri@gmail.com <p> The fall of Syria was destined to happen as per the scriptures of divinity . Revered volumes of Shia theology such as Kitab Al-Ghaybah and Bihar-Ul-Anwar quote the sixth revered holy Imam of Shi'ism , Imam Jaffer al-Sadiq , as saying that the return of Umayyads to Damascus will be a prelude to Armageddon . That apparently has been realised with the abrupt end of the Alawite dynasty that reigned supreme for five decades in self-service , and more as a prodigy of Iran . However , President Bashar al-Assad 's exit was never expected to happen in such an unceremonious , rather disgusting , manner . <p> Assad has reportedly fled to Russia , the regime 's once geo-strategic patron , and is set to extinguish in oblivion in weeks and months . But Syrians are fraught with serious consequences as more bloodshed and revulsion is set to unfold in the region . The intruders in the restive Arab state , who were once-labeled as terrorists , are now being eulogised as saviours and history is being read in introspection with glory for some and death-knell for others . <p> As far as Syria is concerned , one tyranny has given way to another . The lightning advance of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group , in aid of other fugitive outfits including ISIS , al-Qaeda and Daesh , is a d ? j ? vu for many on the pattern of Taliban 2.0 triumph over Kabul in August 2021 . The Americans and the West never expected it to be so quick , but it seems forces of inertia with the covert support of some major Arab players had swung a surprise . But it remains to be seen whether these gun-trotting factions will abide by their benefactor 's agenda or go berserk as had been the case in Iraq after the fall of Saddam Hussein . <p> Riyadh , Doha , Abu Dhabi , Ankara and Amman will have to watch out these dark horses , and keep fingers crossed . The militias now swirling across the Levant can sooner than later become a pain in the neck . Will it tip the pendulum towards Arab Spring-2.0 is anybody 's guess . <p> The major loser is , of course , Iran . Tehran stands battered in the last few weeks , and is almost decimated in terms of power politics . It has lost its clout in Lebanon , Hezbollah is bleeding , Hamas is obliterated , and Houthis are desolated . The Shia brigades in Syria are running helter-skelter and those inside are in a fix . Supply lines for all these non-state actors from Iran are almost choked , and they face an existential threat . <p> Israel for all practical purposes is on a rampage , and no eyebrows were raised in a jaundiced media as Tel Aviv rolled in its tanks deep inside Syria , hours after Assad decamped his fiefdom . Golan Heights , under Israeli occupation since 1967 , will stay put with the Zionist state as there is no resistance now from anywhere . With recent encroachments of the Jewish state becoming a fait accompli in Lebanon and uninterrupted barbarism in Gaza becoming a new-normal , Israel has become invincible and is close to the Torah 's belief of erecting a Greater Israel in the Middle East . <p> All tall claims of Ayatollahs of Iran to raise a resistance force in the name of Al-Quds , and annihilate the state of Israel , have fallen flat . A few hundred pseudo-sorties flown over the Iron Dome by Tehran , in retaliation to the deadly attacks inside the Islamic Republic , were counter-productive . It made a laughing stock of Iranian might and exposed its political hollowness . The orthodox dispensation needs to do some soul-searching and put an end to cursing from the pulpit . Enough of playing to the gallery since 1979 . <p> Syria today is a no-man 's land open for meddling by great powers . Moscow 's timely setback will soon be plastered if Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin agree on a thaw in one of the most volatile regions of the world . They have reasons for a quid pro quo on Ukraine and Israel . But the indispensable lesson learnt from Syria , and the likes , is that tyranny and iron-fist rules are time-barred , and the blood and sweat of commoners is less than a worth of fodder .
