<h> Israel strikes a post office that serves as a shelter in Gaza , killing at least 66 Palestinians . <p> An Israeli strike killed at least 30 Palestinians and wounded 50 others who were sheltering in a post office in the central Gaza Strip , bringing the death toll in the enclave to 66 . <p> The 14-month-old conflict shows no signs of abating . According to doctors who spoke to Reuters , the missile damaged multiple surrounding homes and struck a postal facility in Nuseirat camp where displaced families had sought shelter . <p> A request for response was not immediately answered by the Israeli military . <p> Israel 's embassy in Paraguay is relocated from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.After a back-and-forth battle over the diplomatic location that began in 2018 , Paraguay officially opened its new Jerusalem embassy in Israel in a ceremony that was attended by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Santiago Pea , according to Reuters . <p> In 2018 , former President Horacio Cartes ordered the South American country 's embassy to relocate to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv , a city on the Israeli coast , where it had been for decades . Following a sudden reversal made by Cartes ' successor , Mario Abdo , the facility was relocated back to Tel Aviv a few months later . <p> During the opening ceremony of the new embassy , Pea stated , " This step symbolizes our commitment to shared values and the strengthening of the ties that build a future of peace , development , and mutual understanding . " <p> The conflict in Gaza and other recent Israeli military actions in Syria and Lebanon were not mentioned by the president . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness .
