<h> Journalists under fire <p> At least 54 journalists were killed worldwide in 2024 . According to a report by Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) , Israeli armed forces were responsible for the deaths of 18 journalists this year - 16 in Gaza and two in Lebanon . The number of journalists killed is at a five-year high . While Gaza was the most dangerous place in the world for journalists , other regions also exhibited troubling trends for those reporting the news . According to the RSF report , at least seven were also killed in Pakistan . The country once again emerged as one of the most dangerous spots for journalists . Varied reasons were cited , including political instability , militant violence and suppression of dissenting voices . Journalists in Pakistan face threats not only from extremist groups but also from state actors who often view independent reporting as a threat to their authority . In Pakistan , media outlets have come under increasing pressure in recent years from the government and state authorities , leading to self-censorship and in extreme cases , violence against journalists . <p> During the last months of the year , we have witnessed journalists arrested for various trumped-up charges . Media persons reporting on sensitive issues in the country are silenced through intimidation , abduction and in some cases and murder . For many reporters in the country , the risk of retaliation by powerful quarters is constant . Due to the prevailing environment of fear and the restricted space available , the media has become less effective in holding the powerful to account . It is the need of the hour for international organisations and the government to take concrete steps to protect journalists in Pakistan . The government must introduce a strong legal framework to protect media workers , ensure accountability for crimes against journalists and help foster an environment where the media is free to report the news without fear of violence or retaliation .
