<h> Govt , PTI ready to hold talks with ' ifs and buts ' <h> Senate unanimously condemns Israeli bombings in Gaza <p> Syed Ali Zafar calls for confidence building measures to create environment for talks . Irfan Siddiqui says we want dialogue with open heart but PTI should not hang a sword . Talks are held without any conditionalities , says Sherry . Wali demands ruling coalition to tell the house about reasons behind extending tenure of army chief . <p> ISLAMABAD - The Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz ( PML-N ) led federal government and the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) on Thursday in the Senate agreed to hold a dialogue to end ongoing political crisis in the country with former censuring the opposition party for its ' agitational politics ' and the latter asking for confidence-building measures ( CBMs ) to create some conducive environment for talks . <p> Taking part in the debate on the recent protest of ex-premier Imran Khan 's followers at Islamabad 's D-Chowk , the parliamentary leader of PTI in the House Syed Ali Zafar said he was in favour of a dialogue with the ruling parties to end ongoing political instability . " The doors for talk should never be shut down , " he said , urging the need for some CBMs from the Shehbaz Sharif administration . I am not seeing any CBMs from the government as my party workers are still being arrested , he said . He added that trust in each other was critically important to negotiate . <p> He called for an independent truth and reconciliation commission to probe what happened at the D-Chowk on November 26 , and asked the government to apologise , if an investigation endorses their stance that peaceful protesters had been indiscriminately fired upon . <p> Senator Zafar underlined that the government should release all political prisoners and ensure rule of law if it wanted from PTI not to hold a protest in future for political stability -- a prerequisite for economic stability . PML-N parliamentary leader Irfan Siddiqui in his remarks said the government has never shut its doors for talks , asking the PTI to give up politics of agitation if it wanted a dialogue . <p> " We want a dialogue with an open heart , " he said , adding that the opposition party should not hang the sword of " civil disobedience movement " over their heads . " Pakistan should move forward but old methods of politics need to be given up , " he said . He said that PTI should not hang a sword that if talks were not held by such a date they would start a disobedience movement , adding this kind of behaviour could not go together . Senator Siddiqui recalled that no country in the world gives its people an unconditional right to " peaceful protest . " He , referring to PTI , said no protest in the world started with slogans of " jihad " or " do or die . " . He said no country in the world would allow protesters to bring with them sticks , tear gas shells and slingshots . <p> PPP parliamentary leader Senator Sherry Rehman in her speech said her party has always talked about dialogue , but the PTI always remained averse to it . <p> She said the PPP had offered talks at the time of elections as well , but the opposition party rejected it . <p> She underscored that talks were held without any conditionalities , indicating that the PTI has set two conditions for the talks . She said there should be freedom of expression and protest but with some responsibility , which the PTI lacked . <p> Senator Rehman accused PTI of staging a violent protest and asked it to apologize for it . She blamed the party for what happened in Islamabad on November 26 , saying it provoked the people by bringing them to the D-Chowk . <p> Contrary to the government claims that law enforcement agencies did n't use live ammunition at the PTI protestors at D-Chowk , ruling PML-N Senator Afnan Ullah Khan said he was in a shock that bullets were fired at PTI protesters . He chided the PTI leadership for leaving alone " unarmed and poor workers " at the protest venue and fleeing from the scene . He questioned why no MP , senator or provincial minister of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government faced any injury . <p> The parliamentary leader of ANP Aimal Wali Khan taking part in the debate questioned the law , passed by the parliament along with the 26th Amendment , which extended the tenure of Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) General Asim Munir from three to five years . <p> " The house in its last session extended the tenure of an important position but the entire system lacked courage to talk on this legislation , " he said while referring to the amendments made , by the parliament , in the Pakistan Army Act 1952 last month . He said all three major political parties including PPP , PML-N and PTI harmed democracy by supporting the law . <p> Senator Aimal also questioned the conspicuous absence of Leader of the Opposition Shibli Faraz in the house on the day when the bill was passed . " The opposition leader is also compromised in this system , " he said , blaming PTI Senator Faraz that he never used to make it to the house on the occasions of important law-making . Having a look at the past , he said that even after the passage of the present 1973 Constitution , former army chiefs including General Ziaul Haq , General Pervez Musharraf , General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani and General Qamar Javed Bajwa served beyond their three-year term . Now the Army Act has been amended in a way that present COAS General Asim Munir can serve for 10 years and even beyond that , he added . Wali demanded the ruling coalition to inform the house about the reasons behind extending the tenure of the army chief . <p> Separately , the house unanimously adopted a resolution condemning the grave violations of international law by Israel . " The Senate notes with alarm the exploitation of the political vacuum caused by regime collapse in Syria , which Israel is using to advance its unilateral agenda . This agenda now extends beyond Palestine to violations of the sovereignty of Syria and many other countries , " reads the resolution moved by Senator Sherry Rehman . The resolution , signed by members from both sides of the aisle , called for immediate accountability for these actions .
