<h> Hypocrisy reached new heights when TV screens started showing scenes from the Syrian streets . <p> The thirteen-year-old civil war ended in Syria last week . Nothing extraordinary -- as al Bashar , an ophthalmologist , has been replaced by al Bashir , an electrical engineer . Nothing extraordinary -- as for millennia , the Syrian people have been experiencing ' change ' at the cost of their very existence . By 3000 BCE , Syria had already established direct trade links with Anatolia , Babylon , and Egypt . History would witness this country becoming a melting pot for various civilisations , the rise of Christianity , and the birth of Islam . It boasts of witnessing ' change ' for centuries -- from ancient Mesopotamia to modern-day France . Facing the wrath of the Roman and Byzantine empires , Syria has also survived under various dynasties such as the Umayyads , the Abbasids , the Fatimids , the Seljuks , the Mamluks , and the Ottoman . <p> To say that ' Syria has fallen ' is , therefore , an understatement . That after the unceremonious exit of Bashar al Assad , the country will see political instability is obvious but not surprising . Syria has been facing political instability for ages , particularly since gaining independence from France in 1946 . The conflicts with Israel , Lebanon , and Iraq , coupled with internal strife , have never allowed this country any breathing space . Similarly , counting the years the two Assads managed Syria through deceitful means is also insignificant . To criticise the two Assads because they let Russia , the US , T ? rkiye , Iran , Lebanon , Hezbollah , ISIL , and the likes have a free hand -- just to prolong their rule -- is also an exercise in futility . This is not a new phenomenon . <p> From the longest-serving monarchs like Sobhuza II and Queen Elizabeth II to history 's controversial nationalists like Hitler and Stalin to self-proclaimed saviours like Gaddafi and Zia ul Haq , each one of them was convinced of their invincibility and indispensability . To ensure continuity , every ruler would employ every trick in the book to stay in power , even if they had to kill or sacrifice the very country they claimed to be faithful to . Staying in power is instinctive , so they would leave no stone unturned to ensure the continuation of their reigns -- only to pass them on to their revered family members . Even a rare intellectual like Marcus Aurelius , as the Roman Emperor , would pass on the throne to his incompetent son , Commodus . <p> Therefore , history might forgive the two Assads for inviting aggression , willingly witnessing proxy wars , and seeing Syria being ravaged bit by bit . What , then , is surprising in the latest Syrian episode ? Is n't it amazing that during all this time , particularly since 2011 , the world kept talking about terrorism , geopolitics , geoeconomics , Russia-US military involvement , the Israel-Iran-Hezbollah triangular rift , T ? rkiye 's national interest , and the adoption of Syrian children by world celebrities , but no one -- not even the two Assads -- bothered about the people of Syria : their livelihoods , their futures , their dreams , and their existence as a nation . <p> Hypocrisy reached new heights when TV screens started showing scenes from the Syrian streets -- people dancing and chanting victory slogans , Hafez al Assad 's statue being dismantled , and Abu Muhammad al Golani of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) speaking confidently about Syria 's future . Suddenly , the world realised that besides the proxy warriors , the country was also inhabited by Syrian people , who were jubilant over the victory of revolutionaries . But wait a minute ... ! ! ! If the Syrians were happy , why was a top Russian diplomat ' feeling sorry for the people of Syria ' ? How could a responsible representative of a powerful country feel sad over the Syrian people 's liberation ? It did not make any sense . <p> Simultaneously , on another big screen , a repeat telecast of the Taliban 's conquest of Kabul was on . Instead of Ashraf Ghani , the movie showed Bashar al Assad fleeing the country to an unknown destination . Instead of the Taliban taking charge in the capital city , HTS was seen achieving the feat -- also without facing any resistance whatsoever . The well-trained and adequately equipped Afghan army was replaced by the strong Syrian army , which also disappeared into thin air without firing a bullet . In the UN 's books , both the Taliban and HTS are terrorists . However , unlike Kabul , Damascus has so far not received any checklist to follow before the recent ' change ' is recognised by the world . Deduction ? Perhaps , certain ' terrorists ' deserve respect after all ... ! ! ! The good news ? The US President-elect has declared -- Syria is no longer a US war . <p> The recent ' change ' in Syria has effectively rendered the events between 1967 , when Syria lost the Golan Heights , and the start of the Arab Spring in December 2010 inconsequential . There is no need to read complicated commentaries on Middle Eastern geopolitics and geoeconomics . To understand why and what happened during 2011 -- 2024 , just try deciphering the smiles on the faces of those powerful stakeholders who have not imposed any sanctions on Syria over a ' forceful and unnatural ' regime change . Different connotations of ' might is right ' could also clarify the modern-day concept of realpolitik . Relax . Nothing extraordinary has happened in Syria . It is business as usual . <p> Meanwhile , the optimists among you may wish to forget about Palestine and the UN Security Council 's Resolution 1397 , which called for a two-state solution . Let the UN watch Gaza turn into a Tent City . Forget about Benjamin Netanyahu 's arrest warrants for war crimes and crimes against humanity . Ask senior Syrian officials to prepare for indictments instead . In addition , expect Israel 's recognition by a few more Muslim countries . Abraham Accords-II ? Time permitting , visit the archives and review the conceptual contours of ' Greater Israel ' . Perhaps you will find some plausible explanation for what has been happening in the Middle East , especially since October last year . Lastly , forget about Syria , its constitution , its parliament , and its people . The country is gone with the wind . Let 's talk about their next destination in the Middle East !
