<p> The latest bloodshed came just hours after the UN General Assembly called for an immediate ceasefire in the devastated territory . Seven guards were killed in a strike in Rafah , while another attack left five guards dead in Khan Yunis , agency spokesman Mahmud Bassal said . " The occupation once again targeted those securing the aid trucks , " Bassal told AFP , adding that around 30 people , most of them children , were also wounded in the strikes . <p> " The trucks carrying flour were on their way to UNRWA warehouses , " Bassal noted , referring to the United Nations agency for Palestinian refugees . <p> " The occupation aims to destroy all services for citizens across the Gaza Strip . " <p> Witnesses later told AFP that residents looted flour from the trucks after the strikes . <p> The Israeli military said its forces " conducted precise strikes " overnight on armed Hamas militants present in the humanitarian corridor in southern Gaza . <p> " All of the terrorists that were eliminated were members of Hamas and planned to violently hijack humanitarian aid trucks and transfer them to Hamas in support of continuing terrorist activity , preventing them from reaching Gazan civilians , as was done in previous cases , " the military alleged in a statement . The United Nations and other aid agencies have repeatedly warned about the acute humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip , exacerbated by the war that has persisted for more than 14 months . <p> ' Apocalyptic ' <p> " Conditions for people across the Gaza Strip are appalling and apocalyptic , " UNRWA spokeswoman Louise Wateridge told journalists during a visit to Nuseirat in central Gaza . <p> She added that life-saving aid to " besieged areas in north Gaza governorate has been largely blocked " since the Israeli military launched a sweeping assault several weeks ago . <p> Israeli air strikes on two homes near Nuseirat refugee camp and Gaza City killed 21 more people , including children , the civil defence agency said . Fifteen people , at least six of them children , died " as a result of an Israeli bombing " of a building sheltering displaced people near Nuseirat , Basal said . The bodies of six others killed in a strike on an apartment in Gaza City were taken to a hospital morgue , he added . <p> Israel 's offensive in Gaza has killed tens of thousands of people and devastated the coastal territory since a Hamas attack on southern Israel ignited the war . <p> In the latest diplomatic effort to end the violence , the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on Wednesday calling for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire . <p> The non-binding resolution was rejected by the United States , Israel 's main military backer . However , in recent days , there have been indications that previously stalled ceasefire negotiations could be revived . <p> Families of the 96 hostages still in Gaza , including 34 the Israeli military says are dead , are pressing for their release .
