<h> Philan-thropy must not be viewed solely in the context of giving material things . <p> Both activities of Learning and Giving are divine . These are concepts that are not bound by any yardstick of limits of time , place , or any scale of measurement . With unlimited elasticity , both co-extend their boundaries in accordance with the internal mental makeup of an individual . Enlightened minds in any era of human existence have always been few compared to the population of the time . <p> On the level of philosophy , learning is seen as a step that brings about a change in a person -- not necessarily of irrevocable permanence but malleable enough to absorb a fresh body of knowledge relating to behaviour , knowledge , capability , or even skills arising from experience . Inherently , learning has to remain dynamic -- it can not be static . <p> To the proverb , Reading maketh a man , I would add , and " Company " giveth a moral compass to any individual . Gunamudian David Boaz , the famous Indian psychologist who earned a PhD from Oxford University in 1935 , made the following observation : Learning is the process by which the individual acquires various habits , knowledge , and attitudes that are necessary to meet the demands of life in general . It follows that learning is a consequence of experience . <p> Those who have command over their knowledge , as limited as it may be , should n't fear sharing it because , whatever it is , it is known best to the possessor . Globally , but more so in our cultural context , once a new body of knowledge is learned -- or even when existing knowledge is modified -- there is a general reluctance to share it . The least an enlightened manager must do is to manage learning by creating , capturing , sharing , distilling , validating , adopting , and proliferating it with a willing desire to help improve others . <p> Giving is a holy act . The word giving commonly connotes , to most minds , the parting of material things and , in particular , the giving of money as a gift or as charity . This is a myopic , view of the concept of Giving . The concept is not restricted to the giving of material things alone ; it involves the non-material and the intangible . <p> In corporate and business settings , I have seen great reluctance on the part of managers , supervisors , and leaders to share with their colleagues or teammates information and knowledge that , in my view , can help others grow in their careers and acquire wisdom . People do not give time to one another . Many distressed individuals in society are simply desirous of being heard , yet we tend not to even lend them our ears . <p> Philanthropy must not be viewed solely in the context of giving material things . The selflessness of a teacher who gives more than the value of wages received to their pupils is an act of the highest form of philanthropy . <p> The Giving Pledge movement , founded and promoted by Warren Buffet and Bill &amp; Melinda Gates , was restricted to voluntary pledging of half of the wealth possessed by billionaires around the world . This , too , did not happen . How productive it would be for world peace if all billionaires pledged their moral and material support , in addition to time , attention , and resources , to alleviate the suffering of innocent men , women , and children in Gaza and other theatres of war and instability . The fact that such a move has not occurred reflects the selfishness and stinginess of the privileged , who can not feel the pain of the oppressed Palestinians , Kashmiris , Ukrainians , etc . Money can not ever buy morality or happiness . Nobility of intent , thought , and action alone leads to noblesse oblige . Nothing else can or will . <p> Giving must not be contextualised within the confines of appearing as a two-way street . Nay , giving must remain a one-way street to retain its nobility . Giving has to be without expectations of any return or reward . <p> Knowledge , skills , and talent must not be cold-stored , warehoused , or hoarded . In my view , the most grievous crime against humanity is to prevent the seeking of knowledge and understanding . Monarchies in some democratic societies relentlessly pursue the goal of keeping the populace illiterate . They deviously ensure that giving freedom to think remains absent , for it may lead people to question their rule : Who are you to lord over us ? They give material comforts but deny the freedom to imagine . The possibility of such a question haunts many nations from Morocco to Indonesia . <p> Learning must remain a cradle-to-grave question . However , what is learned should not be taken to the grave . Knowledge should not be buried ; the only way to give it immortality is to share it with others . <p> Those who are unafraid to learn will remain fearless in sharing what they know . We must learn as much as we can . However , being a reservoir of knowledge is not a better station than being a flowing stream , where any aspirant can sip from it .
