<p> ISLAMABAD : Prime Minister Sheh ? baz Sharif and Chief of Army Staff Gene ? ral Asim Munir on Monday held a meeting on key security concerns , including a recent PTI protest in Islamabad in which several lives were lost over the course of demonstrations spanning multiple days . <p> The government did not share details of the meeting with the media , but a source privy to the meeting told Dawn that the huddle discussed the Nov 24 D-Chowk protest and vowed to spare nobody involved in violence and the killing of law enforcers . <p> " It was decided that no leniency will be shown for those who killed security personnel and destroyed state property , " the source said . The meeting , attended by top security officials , also discussed a surge in terrorism , especially in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan . <p> The huddle also took stock of a renewed threat by KP Chief Minister Ali Amin Gandapur about another protest march to Islamabad if the government did not release PTI founder Imran Khan from jail . The source said the meeting also remembered the Army Public School tragedy on the occasion of its 10th anniversary on Monday . Security officials gave a detailed briefing on internal and external security matters . <p> PM to visit Egypt for two-day D-8 summit <p> D-8 Summit <p> PM Shehbaz Sharif will visit Egypt from December 18 to 20 to participate in the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) in Cairo . Preceding the summit , Deputy Prime Minister Ishaq Dar will attend the 21st session of the D-8 Council of Ministers on December 18 , the Foreign Office spokesperson said in a statement . <p> " At the summit , the prime minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship , the spokesperson added . <p> The PM will express Pakistan 's strong commitment to the ideals of D-8 , underscore the importance of fostering partnerships for mutual benefit and prosperity , and promote cooperation in agriculture , food security , and tourism . He will also underline Pakistan 's incentives for youth empowerment and financial development , the statement added . <p> The prime minister will also attend the special session of D-8 on the humanitarian crisis and reconstruction challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> He would underline Pakistan 's principled position on the situation in Palestine and call for peace in the Middle East . On the sidelines of the summit , the prime minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with participating leaders .
