<h> Syria 's Fall <h> The real challenge in Assad 's life came during the Arab Spring . <p> An era of fifty years of oppression , subjugation , and suppression by the Al-Assad family came to an end on 8 December 2024 , by a group of Sunni-led militant forces , mainly headed by Abu Mohammed al-Jolani under the umbrella of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) . Remarkably , within the span of eleven days , Damascus was liberated from a tyrant dictator by ( ironically ) another extremist and fundamentalist anti-Assad force . Unsurprisingly , the ousted Assad and his family have been granted asylum in Russia , which was once the critical ally of Assad 's regime . <p> Since 1971 , Syria has been under the tight control of the Assad family . At that time , it was ruled by Hafez al-Assad , who belonged to the Alawite sect , one of the breakaway branches of Shia Islam , although the majority of Syria 's population followed the Sunni faith . His rule was also marked by the oppression and subjugation of the Sunni population of the country , although the ruling Ba'ath Party claimed to be a Syrian nationalist and secular party . Thus , the seeds of rebellion and discontent started in the early 1980s . However , with the turn of the 21st century and the change of command falling on the shoulders of Bashar al-Assad , he proved no different from his father when it came to political repression and economic coercion of the Sunni majority population . <p> The real challenge in Assad 's life came during the Arab Spring ( 2011 ) in Syria , where protestors demanded democracy and human rights . Despite his brutal tactics against protests , he survived with the help of Iran . However , this led to a civil war in Syria , where many Sunni-led militant groups challenged the authority of Assad 's regime . <p> Initially , Iran 's support for the Assad regime served a strategic purpose : strengthening the so-called " axis of resistance " network . For Tehran , it was critical to maintain the flow of weapons , information , and personnel to Hezbollah and Hamas , based in Lebanon and Gaza respectively , in order to weaken Israel . Without Syria on Iran 's chessboard , the supply chain would not operate smoothly for long . Thus , the post-2011 pro-Assad regime was a strategic asset for Tehran and its axis of resistance . <p> Under President Putin , who sought to expand Russian influence and demonstrate military might across Europe and the Middle East , Russia found an ally in Syria . Through its military support , the Assad regime was able to hold a strong grip on power . In return , Russia secured what it wanted : a naval airbase along Syria 's Mediterranean coast , a symbol of Russian power in the region . <p> What changed in the last eleven days to end 54 years of Assad family rule over Syria ? <p> First , since the 7 October 2023 attacks , Iran and its proxies have come under severe assault from Israel and its allies . This has led to the decapitation of the top leadership of Hezbollah and Hamas , as well as the destruction of critical infrastructure . Many intelligence reports claim that by October 2024 , Hezbollah was at its weakest point due to the loss of its leadership and critical weapons . Similarly , Hamas not only lost its leadership but also failed to garner credible support from Hezbollah and Tehran . Israel 's attacks on Iranian assets and pro-Iranian leadership across the Middle East dealt a humiliating blow to Tehran . Despite attempts to retaliate with direct attacks on Israel , Tehran failed to inflict significant damage . Consequently , the Gaza war greatly weakened Tehran and its axis of resistance , which in turn impacted the Assad regime , heavily reliant on Tehran and Hezbollah . Without their support , Syrian rebels seized the opportunity to topple Assad , forcing him to flee the country . <p> Second , another key ally of the Assad regime , Russia , has been preoccupied with its war in Ukraine since 24 February 2022 . Much of its manpower , weapons , and attention are focused on the Ukrainian front . Syrian rebels recognised that President Putin 's commitments in Ukraine would prevent the Russian air force from coming to Assad 's aid as it did in 2015 . Without Russian backing , Assad 's regime could no longer sustain itself in Damascus . <p> Third , in the absence of Tehran and Moscow , Israel capitalised on the situation in Syria . Intelligence reports suggest that Mossad and the CIA provided financial , weaponry , and logistical support to Syrian rebels , playing a critical role in toppling the Assad regime . Israel has a history of exploiting sectarian and ethnic divisions in the region to its advantage , ensuring that fractured nations remain unable to unite against Israel for the Palestinian cause and self-determination . <p> Firstly , the biggest loser in this scenario is Tehran , which has lost a critical ally essential for maintaining its regional influence and sustaining the supply chain to Hezbollah and Hamas . With Syria gone , the future of the entire axis of resistance is now in jeopardy . This is also a setback for Hamas and the Palestinian resistance , as Tehran 's ability to provide financial and military support to their struggle against Israel has been severely diminished . <p> Secondly , Russia faces a significant loss . Its naval bases along Syria 's Mediterranean coast can not function effectively without Assad 's support . This is not only a strategic setback but also a blow to Russian pride . <p> The primary beneficiary is Israel , which has succeeded in disrupting the axis of resistance and eliminating a major threat to its security . Turkey has also seen a tactical advantage , as the removal of the Assad regime could facilitate the creation of a " safe zone " near its border to house Syrian refugees currently in Turkey .
