<p> HOW and why the Assad regime collapsed like a house of cards in a mere 11 days , after battling foreign-sponsored rebel groups , including IS and Al Qaeda , for some 13 years with the help of its own foreign friends , Russia , Iran and Hezbollah , will remain the subject of debate and analysis , even speculation , in the coming months and years . <p> Perhaps a little understanding can be gained by the events since the exit of former strongman Bashar al-Assad . He succeeded his father , Hafez al-Assad , the founder of the Baath Party dynasty who came to power after a coup in March 1971 , after the latter passed away in 2000 . <p> Just last weekend ( on Saturday ) Bashar al-Assad was still in Damascus and there was speculation whether he 'd be able to defy the odds again and remain in the saddle . A week on , he has been long gone , and is , probably , by the side of his wife Asma , who is being treated for ' acute blood and bone marrow cancer ' in Moscow . <p> What was once a unified Syria is now fragmented , with the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , which has its roots in Al Qaeda , in control of major cities such as Damascus , Aleppo , Hama and Homs in addition to Idlib , that it has held for the longest time . This group has powerful backers in the US , Israel and most openly Turkiye , whose intelligence chief has already visited the Syrian capital , where he was driven around by HTS leader Al-Jolani . <p> The West and its key regional allies , Israel and Turkiye , have secured a huge win over the Iran-led ' Axis of Resistance ' . <p> As Ibrahim Kalin arrived at the historic Umayyad Mosque in Damascus to offer prayers , memories were revived of the expanding Ottoman Empire in the early part of the 16th century . However , this time round , the push will stop in Damascus and not continue to Jerusalem . That is a certainty . <p> Elsewhere , Turkiye 's claim of the Syrian pie was meeting with stiff resistance by the Kurdish Syrian Defence Forces ( SDF ) in the oil-rich north-eastern , north-central swathes of the country , where US troops are also present . <p> This tense stand-off did not dissuade Turkiye 's Energy and Natural Resources Minister Alparslan Bayraktar from saying that a gas pipeline project from Qatar to Turkiye via Saudi Arabia , Jordan and Syria could be revived now , that its main opponent in Syria has been ousted . He said if " Syria achieves its ( territorial ) integrity and stability , many other projects could be started too " . <p> On the other hand , the ' liberators ' of Syria seemed content with having rid their country of the Assad regime and were celebrating their victory while Israel was rapidly moving to take over more ( the remaining one-third ) of the Golan Heights it captured in 1967 and illegally annexed in 1981 . <p> Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , wanted for genocide by the ICC , arrived at the Golan Heights the same day and claimed credit for the fall of Assad , which he attributed to his forces ' attacks on Hezbollah and Iran and not the militants who marched into Damascus . <p> This advance saw Israeli Occupation Forces ( IOF ) overrunning the UN-supervised buffer zone and capturing the strategically important Mount Hermon which , at nearly 2,900 metres , towers over Damascus to its northeast and Lebanon in its north . Israeli troops have also taken over the Quneitra crossing further south . <p> Apart from its land grab , Israel 's air force has carried out some 450 bombing runs over Syria and claims to have destroyed the entire Syrian air force , navy , missile forces , chemical weapons , and defence production facilities . Syria 's electronic warfare capacity has also been denuded . The bodies of two murdered scientists working in the defence establishments have also been found . <p> This forced one commentator to remark : they have only left small arms , such as assault rifles and machineguns , that the disparate militant groups will use when they fight each other in a civil war . They have nothing left to threaten Israel with . <p> In other developments , some members of the pro-Israel Druze community straddling Israel , Syria and Lebanon have called upon Israel to create a ( buffer zone ) homeland for them in the Golan Heights so Israel 's security concerns are addressed adequately . The leader of the Israeli Druze community , which provides a large number of officers and soldiers to the IOF , also visited Abu Dhabi . It is not clear what was discussed . <p> What is clear is that the West and its key regional allies , Israel and Turkiye , have secured a huge win over the so-called Iran-led Axis of Resistance , which has been dismantled in Syria and weakened in Lebanon , with Israeli newspaper Haaretz reporting that Israel is to set up a military base in Somaliland , which is recognised by Israel , the UAE and two other countries , so that the Yemeni Houthis can be smashed . <p> For now , Iran can only issue bold and brave statements against the Zionist regime and its backers , as its options are severely curtailed . With Syria carved up to support the US-Zionist game plan in the region , and with plans to try and crush the Houthis from a base in the Horn of Africa looking more medium- to long-term , it is Iran which seems the next likely target of the West and Israel . <p> Much will depend on the incoming US president Donald Trump who , in the past , has had good relations with Russia and President Vladimir Putin , but has extended an invitation to the Chinese leader Xi Jinping to his inauguration in what some Washington commentators are ascribing to a US attempt to get China on board to isolate Russia . I doubt China will bite the bait . <p> With so much focus on these developments , Israel 's business as usual genocide in Gaza continues apace , with the pro-Zionist genocide Western powers and several OIC members happily playing their unconscionable part in this tragic , live-on-social media mass murder .
