<p> UNITED NATIONS : The brother of an Israeli man held hostage in the Gaza Strip by Palestinian Hamas criticized the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday for inaction and urged it to " send a resonating message that terror will never prevail . " <p> Michael Levy 's brother Or was taken hostage and Or 's wife was killed when Hamas attacked Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Levy was the first person from a hostage family to brief the 15-member Security Council , which has met dozens of times on the war between Israel and Hamas in Gaza over the past 14 months . <p> " Your silence is deafening , your inaction is suffocating . For everyday this council fails to act , the message to the world is clear - that some lives are worth saving and others are not , " he said . " I refuse to accept a world where my brother 's life can be used as a bargaining chip and be forgotten . " <p> The Security Council has repeatedly demanded - in four resolutions - the immediate and unconditional release of hostages held by Hamas and other groups . But it has not condemned the group 's attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Israel 's ally the United States vetoed a draft council resolution in October 2023 that would have condemned Hamas and urged Gaza aid access . The U.S. had argued it needed more time to broker humanitarian access and was disappointed the text did not mention Israel 's right to self-defense . <p> Levy 's remarks came as the United States , Egypt and Qatar sought on Wednesday to conclude a deal between Israel and Hamasto halt the war in Gaza . On Tuesday , sources close to the talks in Cairo said an agreement could be signed in coming days . <p> " We hope we can achieve a deal , " Israel 's U.N . Ambassador Danny Danon told reporters ahead of the Security Council meeting on Wednesday . " After many rejections by Hamas , we hope we will have some news before the holiday of Hanukkah and Christmas . " <p> " I want to say those mediators who are doing a lot trying to make it happen , but there is no guarantees , " he said . <p> The war in Gaza began after Hamas killed around 1,200 people in Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and took about 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . Israel says about 100 hostages are still held , but it is not clear how many of those people are alive . <p> Since then , Israel 's military has leveled swaths of Gaza , driving nearly all of its 2.3 million people from their homes , giving rise to deadly hunger and disease and killing more than 45,000 people , according to Palestinian health authorities , who do not distinguish between combatants and noncombatants . <p> " Gaza has turned into a graveyard for the living , " Algeria 's U.N . Ambassador Amar Bendjama told the council on Wednesday .
