<p> A person stands at a damaged mosque , which according to Palestinians , was burned by Israeli settlers , near Salfit in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . Photo : Reuters <p> Israeli settlers set fire to a mosque in the occupied West Bank and defaced its facade with hateful and racist slogans , including " Revenge " and " Death to Arabs " spray-painted in Hebrew . The attack took place early on Friday morning at the Bar al-Walidain mosque in the village of Marda . <p> Abdallah Kamil , the governor of Salfit , confirmed the incident , calling it a targeted assault by a group of settlers . " A group of settlers carried out an attack by setting fire to the mosque , " Kamil said in a statement . <p> Local residents reported that the settlers set fire to the entrance of the mosque and wrote Hebrew slogans on its walls . Fortunately , the fire was extinguished before it could cause significant damage to the structure . <p> Nasfat al-Khufash , head of the Marda village council , described the attack as a " systematic terror attack by a group of settlers " in an interview with Reuters . <p> Israeli settlements on Palestinian land in the occupied West Bank are considered illegal by the United Nations and under international law . <p> Governor Kamil noted that settlers had previously entered the village " under the protection of the Israeli army " and that similar acts of vandalism and graffiti had been reported in surrounding areas . <p> The Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Ramallah condemned the attack as a " blatant act of racism " and a manifestation of the " widespread incitement campaigns " led by Israel 's extremist right-wing government . <p> In response , Israeli police and Shin Bet security services issued a joint statement , calling the attack " extremely serious " and vowing to take decisive action to bring the perpetrators to justice . <p> Settler violence in the occupied West Bank has surged since the Gaza war began on October 7 , 2023 . As of October 2024 , there have been over 1,400 settler attacks in the West Bank . <p> According to the Palestinian Health Ministry , at least 803 Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank by Israeli forces or settlers since the start of the Gaza war .
