<h> Gaza death toll surpasses 45,000 as Israel continues attacks <p> Gaza - As Israeli forces continue to carry out air and ground attacks in Gaza , authorities in the enclave say the death toll in the 14-month war has now surpassed 45,000 . <p> With Palestinians constantly ordered by the Israelis to move from one area of the Gaza Strip to another , even the designated humanitarian zones are not safe . The lack of aid access has had a devastating impact on the population , leaving Palestinians in the Gaza Strip lamented the bloodshed and loss of lives . Osama Lubbad , a displaced resident from Beit Lahiya , asks what Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu " want more from the blood of the Palestinian people " . " I mean 45,000 martyrs , in addition to the people who are still under the rubble . <p> Buried under rubble and their bodies decomposed . What does he want ? We tell the world this is enough . Enough with this genocide and enough with this war , " he said . Officials say at least 106,962 have been wounded since the start of the war . But the real death toll is likely to be much higher as thousands of bodies are still buried under rubble or in areas that medics can not access . <p> The Gaza health ministry does not distinguish between civilians and combatants in its count , but it has said that more than half of the fatalities are women and children . <p> Israel 's military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . It blames Hamas for civilian deaths saying the group operates from within civilian areas in the densely populated enclave . <p> The Israeli campaign began following a Hamas-led militant attack on southern Israel in October 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting another 250 . <p> Around 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . Most of the rest were released during a ceasefire last year . <p> The Israeli offensive has displaced nearly the entire population of Gaza and left much of the enclave in ruins , with families struggling to find food and shelter .
