<h> Growing nuclear brinkmanship <p> The writer is an academic and researcher . He is also the author of Development , Poverty , and Power in Pakistan , available from Routledge <p> Listen to article <p> The Nobel Peace Prize has often been given to people whose record as peace makers is contested . In recent years , President Obama was given this award for his efforts to promote international cooperation and peace , even though it was under his presidency that the US decided on a troop surge in Afghanistan and ramped up use of drone strikes , despite the collateral damage drones cause to innocent civilians . Giving the Nobel for peace ( not economics ) to Muhammad Yunus for his advocacy of micro-lending was also puzzling , especially as the correlation between poor women accessing loans and becoming socially empowered is not assured . However , the Nobel committee 's decision to award the Nobel Peace Prize for 2024 to Nihon Hidankyo , an organisation comprised of Hiroshima and Nagasaki nuclear attack survivors , which now campaigns against nuclear weapons , is noteworthy . <p> We live in a world where the risk of nuclear use - either deliberate , by accident , or due to miscalculation - has grown significantly . Russia has revised its nuclear doctrine to use nuclear weapons not only in response to a nuclear attack , but also to push back against a conventional attack deemed a " critical threat " to Russia 's sovereignty , or that of its allied state , Belarus . This revision of the Russian nuclear posture is meant to counter growing western support to Ukraine , but it does create a danger of an escalating nuclear conflict . North Korea has upped its nuclear capabilities over these past few years as well . The far right in Israel has threatened using the nuclear option during the ongoing assault on Gaza . Beleaguered Iran , which has seen a significant degradation of its proxies in the region , may also ramp up efforts to become a nuclear power , especially if the Israeli threat to it grows under the coming Trump administration . <p> In the case of South Asia , the threat of a nuclear showdown is also linked to the ongoing great power tussle which is intensifying lingering regional rivalries . China and India had two major skirmishes over contested border demarcations in the Himalayas in 2020 and 2022 . While the two neighbouring Asian giants have sought to normalise the situation along their contested border for now , their acrimony is only intensifying due to America 's support to India for containing China . Yet , US efforts to bolster Indian capabilities have inflamed insecurities of Pakistan , which struggles to maintain deterrence against its hostile larger neighbour . <p> Scholars , writing for the Brookings Institute , warned of a strategic chain reaction triggering an arms buildup in South Asia . This chain reaction compels Pakistan to maintain a nuclear deterrent against India . Increasingly , however , India needs to respond not to Pakistan but also to China . China meanwhile is upping its nuclear capabilities with an eye on the Indian posture , and to keep the US at bay . <p> The risk tolerance between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan has also increased because the US and China are less likely to work together to prevent their cross-border tensions from spiraling into a catastrophic conflict . A full-blown nuclear conflict in South Asia could not only cause devastation across the wider region , its environmental impact would spell disaster for the rest of the world . <p> One hopes that awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to a movement against nuclear proliferation also nudges the international arms control regime to do more to contend with the growing risks of nuclear conflict , especially by dissuading great powers from engaging in direct as well as indirect nuclear brinkmanship.
