<p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Thursday addressed the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries in Cairo , which is taking place from December 18 to 19 , 2024 . <p> The summit 's theme is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " This focus reflects an emphasis on fostering economic growth through youth engagement and support for small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) as vital components for building inclusive economies and creating jobs . <p> At the beginning of his speech , Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif expressed gratitude to Egypt 's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for the " warm and generous welcome " extended to him and his delegation . <p> However , the premier noted , " unlocking this potential requires providing the right skills , opportunities , and financial resources " . <p> Highlighting the theme of the summit , which focused on investing in youth , Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif described it as a " blueprint for collective prosperity in the 21st century . " He underscored that youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) are " key drivers of economic development in any society . " <p> In his address , the prime minister noted the government 's achievements under the PM 's Youth Programme , including the distribution of " over 600,000 laptops to high-performing students . " He also highlighted the PM 's Youth Business and Agricultural Loan Scheme , which had disbursed " billions in loans " to help young Pakistanis establish and grow their businesses . <p> " This summit provides D-8 nations with a valuable platform to share best practices , pool resources , and develop initiatives that support youth and SMEs across borders , " he stated . <p> PM Shehbaz also shed light on efforts to empower Pakistan 's IT sector , pointing out that the country hosts " one of the largest freelance communities in the world . " He emphasized the government 's focus on mass-scale IT training to equip young people with tools to engage with the digital economy and transition from job-seekers to job-creators . <p> " Connectivity serves as a force multiplier , driving peace and prosperity , as underscored in the Dhaka declaration of 2021 , " he said . <p> The prime minister stressed the importance of enhancing transport connectivity among D-8 member states to develop efficient intra-trade corridors and reliable supply chains , citing the " Pakistan-Iran-Turkiye Corridor " as a standout initiative . <p> Earlier in the day , the prime minister arrived at the Royal Palace in Cairo to participate in the summit . He was welcomed by President El-Sisi and recorded his impressions in the visitors ' book , according to state-run Radio Pakistan . <p> On the sidelines of the summit , PM Shehbaz met with Professor Dr. Muhammad Yunus , chief advisor to Bangladesh 's interim government , and Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto . <p> He is also scheduled to hold bilateral meetings with the presidents of Iran , Turkiye , and Egypt . <p> In addition to his address , Sharif has engaged in bilateral meetings with other leaders , including Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto , where they discussed enhancing cooperation between their countries and reaffirmed their support for the Palestinian cause . <p> The D-8 organization , founded in 1997 , aims to enhance economic cooperation among its member states -- Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , and T ? rkiye -- focusing on areas such as agriculture , trade , transportation , industry , energy , and tourism . <p> At the summit , PM Shehbaz Sharif will also attend a special session of D-8 on ' Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challen ? ges in Gaza and Lebanon ' to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . <p> ' Global Peace Hinges on Gaza Ceasefire ' <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif renewed his call for a ceasefire in Gaza , emphasizing that Israel 's 14-month-long offensive , which has claimed over 45,000 Palestinian lives , must come to an end . Many victims are feared to be trapped beneath the rubble . <p> Highlighting the significance of the D-8 summit as a " vital platform for cooperation , " the premier stressed that the gathering was taking place at a " critical juncture . " <p> " A ceasefire in Gaza is crucial ; without it , peace , prosperity , and progress -- not just in the region but globally -- will remain unattainable , " PM Shehbaz stated . <p> Addressing the summit 's leaders , he added , " It is equally vital to discuss the situation in Gaza , the ceasefire in Lebanon , and the looming threat of further violence by Israel in this region and beyond . " <p> The prime minister also commended President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for dedicating a special session to address the " pressing crises " in the Middle East . <p> I am a freelance journalist with a Master 's Degree in Mass Communication and an MS in Peace and Conflict Studies . Since 2006 , I have been involved in various capacities within the electronic media industry . At OyeYeah , I cover diverse genres ranging from journalism and fiction to fashion , including reviews and fact-finding reports . <p> OyeYeah is an entertainment project powered by Alliancez Inc . We 're motivated to digging up fresh , authentic news . Oye Yeah does not work on rumors ! We have all sourced news because we believe in bringing our readers the best . We have a vision and we 're striving hard to achieve it day in , day out !
