<p> ISLAMABAD/CAIRO - Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Wednesday directed the authorities concerned to take solid actions against human trafficking bringing defame to Pakistan and sought a report on the incidents of human trafficking during the last year involving Pakistani citizens . <p> The prime minister while chairing a meeting to discuss the death of Pakistani nationals in a boat capsizing incident in Greece and the measures to curb human trafficking called for strict action against the people involved in the trafficking of innocent people to other countries . <p> He recalled that 262 Pakistani nationals had lost their lives in another incident in the same area last year and expressed his displeasure over inaction against those responsible . The recurrence of such incidents is due to the sluggish actions against the people involved , he added . <p> The prime minister instructed the immediate implementation of the Integrated Border Management System ( IBMS ) to monitor international travelers . During the briefing , the prime minister was told that 174 people involved in human trafficking had been produced before courts with four of them convicted . <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz sought details on the public awareness campaign on human trafficking and asked the FIA and foreign ministry to furnish a report on the incidents involving Pakistani nationals over the last year . He also stressed the need to enhance collaboration with international institutions to prevent the recurrence of such tragic incidents . <p> Meanwhile , Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif on Wednesday arrived here on an official visit to Egypt to lead the Pakistan delegation at the 11th Summit of the Developing Eight ( D-8 ) countries being held from 18-19 December . <p> Minister for Public Business Sector of the Arab Republic of Egypt Mohamed Shimi along with senior Egyptian and officials of the Pakistan embassy in Cairo received the prime minister upon arrival at the airport , PM Office Media Wing said in a press release . <p> The theme of the 11th D-8 Summit is " Investing in Youth and Supporting SMEs : Shaping Tomorrow 's Economy . " <p> At the summit , the prime minister will underline the importance of investing in youth and SMEs for building a strong and inclusive economy ; creating jobs ; advancing innovation ; and promoting local entrepreneurship . " The Prime Minister will also attend the Special Session of D-8 on the Humanitarian Crisis and Reconstruction Challenges in Gaza and Lebanon to deliberate on the situation resulting from Israeli aggression in the Middle East . On the sidelines of the Summit , the Prime Minister is expected to hold bilateral meetings with the participating leaders , " it was further added . <p> Founded in 1997 in Istanbul , the D-8 Organization for Economic Cooperation , also known as Developing-8 , is an organisation for development co-operation among Bangladesh , Egypt , Indonesia , Iran , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , and Turkiye . <p> Its objective is to increase economic cooperation among Member States to boost economic growth , sustain development and promote and improve standards of living by focusing on bringing improvement and enhancing cooperation in agriculture , trade , transportation , industry , energy and tourism . <p> Meanwhile , In the boat capsizing accident many Pakistanis are still missing while Greece coast guards have ended the rescue operation . The Greece officials said that the missing people will be declared dead . On Sunday , three boats have capsized in the sea of Greece . A wooden boat capsized off Greece 's southern island of Gavdos on Friday night , the Greek coastguard said on Saturday .
