<h> Enough is enough , world must listen to voices of Gaza : PM Shehbaz <p> Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif has called on the international community to listen to the suffering and cries of the people of Gaza . <p> Speaking at a special session on the situation in Palestine and Lebanon at the D-8 Summit , the Prime Minister expressed his gratitude to Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi for convening the timely meeting on Gaza and Lebanon during the summit . <p> PM condemned Israel 's relentless actions , which , after wreaking havoc in Gaza , have now spread to the West Bank , warning that this could ignite a broader regional conflict . <p> He described the ongoing violence in Gaza since October 2023 as one of the darkest chapters in recent history , calling it a catastrophic humanitarian crisis of unimaginable proportions . Pakistan has consistently denounced Israel 's aggression in Gaza , the West Bank , Lebanon , and Syria , he added . <p> He also condemned Israel 's actions against the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) , describing the agency as a lifeline for millions of vulnerable Palestinians affected by Israeli actions in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> PM Shehbaz reiterated Pakistan 's long-standing support for a just and lasting solution to the Middle East conflict based on international law and relevant UN Security Council and OIC resolutions . <p> He emphasised the need for a viable , sovereign Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital , based on pre-1967 borders . <p> He also urged for international efforts to secure a ceasefire and support the reconstruction of Gaza , the West Bank , Lebanon , and other war-torn regions , which have been devastated by Israeli airstrikes . <p> Pakistan is among the countries that have sent aid to Palestine through Egypt and Jordan , and Sharif called for continued humanitarian assistance to ensure the survival of millions of war-affected civilians . " I urge the world to listen to the innocent people of Gaza , " the PM concluded .
