<p> In his opening remarks , the premier expressed gratitude to Egypt 's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi for warm reception extended to him and his delegation . He emphasized significance of D-8 as a platform for fostering economic cooperation among member states , which include Egypt , Nigeria , Turkey , Pakistan , Indonesia , Bangladesh , Iran , and Malaysia . <p> In his speech , PM Sharif underscored summit 's focus on investing in youth , calling it key strategy for collective prosperity . He noted that youth and small and medium enterprises ( SMEs ) are crucial drivers of economic growth , innovation , and job creation . <p> Sharif said Youth bring fresh ideas and energy , while Small and medium-sized enterprises foster entrepreneurship and innovation . By investing in both , we can create inclusive and robust economies , " he added . <p> He further puts potential of Pakistan 's youthful population , emphasizing that unlocking this potential requires providing the necessary skills , opportunities , and financial resources . He also pointed to the government 's Youth Programme , which has distributed 600,000 laptops to high-achieving students , as part of Pakistan 's commitment to empowering its youth . <p> Prime Minister called for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , stressing that global peace and prosperity can not be achieved without it . He also highlighted the urgency of discussing the humanitarian crises in Gaza and Lebanon and addressing the potential threats posed by Israel 's actions . <p> Earlier in day , the premier arrived at Royal Palace in Cairo , where he was warmly received by President El-Sisi . He also recorded his impressions in the visitors ' book . On the sidelines of the summit , the prime minister held productive meetings with Professor Dr. Muhammad Yunus , Bangladesh 's chief advisor , and Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto . He is expected to meet bilaterally with the presidents of Iran , Turkey , and Egypt . <p> The D-8 summit provides a vital opportunity for leaders to discuss regional challenges and collaborate on economic and developmental initiatives , with an emphasis on sustainable growth , innovation , and cooperation among member nations .
