<h> T ? rkiye , the US and Israel are now the three major players who are likely to call the shots in Syria . All three intend to relentlessly pursue their national interests there . <p> General Wesley Clark , a four-star US general claimed in his book , " The Clark Critique " , that post 9/11 the US had planned to take out seven Muslim states . He asserted that it would start with Iraq , Syria , Lebanon , Libya , Somalia , and Sudan and finish off with Iran . Some analysts however dismissed it as peacetime " routine contingency planning " carried out normally by major military powers . However , a bird 's eye view of the Greater Middle East Region ( GMER ) today shows that these " ostensible contingency plans " have been ominously manifested to a very great degree . Iraq , Libya , Sudan , Somalia , Lebanon , Syria , Gaza-Palestine , Afghanistan etc are all in various stages of devastation ; human losses , infrastructure destruction , population displacement , economic ruin , socio-political destabilization , chaos , turmoil , upheavals and self-defeating , clashing , internal militant strife . Israel has carried out air-missile-drone strikes against Iran too which has responded in kind . <p> The GMER stands devastated . Its geopolitical and geostrategic environments are now in an advanced , agitated state of flux . They continue to be extremely vitiated , unpredictable and evolving at a furious pace . The national interests of militant groups , major regional players and global powers are now clashing comprehensively in Syria . <p> Syria is the latest country on the list to fall . President Bashar Al Asaad was forced out of office and had to seek refuge and political asylum in Russia . A number of factors contributed to his removal from power . The so-called Axis of Resistance provided President Asaad critical support . Iran had a very significant presence in Syria through its Iran Revolutionary Guards Corp ( IRGC ) . It was transhipping military hardware , equipment etc to Hizbollah in Lebanon . Israel 's unrelenting attacks on Hizbollah 's leadership and war-making potential dealt the most lethal blow to its militant capacity and capabilities . Decapitated and weakened militarily it was unable to help President Asaad against the myriads of terrorist/militant groups inside Syria and/or the Palestinian cause in Gaza . The removal of President Asaad also cut off Hizbollah 's main supply route from Iran leaving it critically short of much needed reinforcements and military ( re ) supplies . Iran had suffered losses in Israeli air attacks and also due to the debilitating international sanctions on it . Both its nodes , IRGC in Syria and Hizbollah in Lebanon and its so-called Axis of Resistance stood effectively neutralized . The Iranians have reportedly evacuated Syria . Russia had been inextricably embroiled in Ukraine and could not spare any major military/air efforts to support President Asaad against the marauding Hayat Tahrir as Shaam ( HTS ) - an Al Qaeda offshoot and till yet proscribed by the US-led West - and other groups . It was maintaining a naval base at Tartus and an air base at Khiemim in Latakia . It has shifted its air and naval assets to safety along the Mediterranean Coast . Its naval ships have moved off shore . It has lost its clout and is practically out of the Syrian theatre . The collective loss of timely support from Russia , Iran , the decimation of Hizbollah and the militant onslaught sounded the death knell for the Asaad regime ! <p> Russia , Iran and Hizbollah have been practically pushed out of the Syrian theatre . Syria 's worried regional Arab brothers however watch listlessly from the sidelines . They appear stupefied by their traditional mental , physical and moral paralyses and show no signs of moving to decisively influence the evolving geopolitical and geostrategic environments . T ? rkiye , the US and Israel are now the three major players who are likely to call the shots in Syria . All three intend to relentlessly pursue their national interests there . <p> Turkiye is intent upon securing its southern border with Syria . There are two main groups that are active along the Syrian-Turkiye border . One is the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) and the other is the Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) . The SNA is a coalition of armed Syrian groups comprising various rebel factions and supported by Turkiye . Turkiye maintains very close ties with the more dominant factions in post-Asaad Syria , that is SNA and the HTS . The Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , on the other hand , is a Kurdish-led coalition of ethnic militias and rebel groups which is allied to the US . It seeks a secular , democratic and federalized Syria . The SDF is opposed by Turkiye which claims that it has direct links to the Kurdistan Worker 's Party ( PKK ) , which it has declared a terrorist organization . It will continue to prevent the SDF/Syrian Kurdish groups from supporting the PKK in its anti-Turkiye activities . Furthermore , it wants the SNA to push the SDF away from its borders . The SNA has thus far captured Manbij and Deir az Zour forcing the SDF to move East of the River Euphrates , a withdrawal reportedly facilitated by the US . The US supports the SDF against the ISIL elements in Syria . In the current scenario , Turkiye reportedly gave the HTS its tacit approval , backing and support to launch the offensive against the Asaad regime . The US has about 900 troops in northeast and east Syria . This is the region where most of Syria 's oil and gas reserves are found . The SDF there is its key ally . The US is cognisant of the post-Asaad political void in Syria . In all probabilities , it will move to thwart the potential threat of a quasi-caliphate taking shape in Syria . It will not allow any transnational terrorist group to fill this yawning political vacuum and pose threats to Israel , the continental US , or their interests in the region , either .
