<h> The major losers in this Syrian conundrum have been Iran , Russia , Hezbollah and the Palestinian cause . <p> The major regional players and global powers have started consultations on the future of Syria . The HTS has , thus far , shown a great deal of maturity and made all the right statements that indicate its desire for peace and an orderly transition to a truly representative , democratic rule . The main players in the Syrian theatre now are the US , Israel , and Turkiye . They will foremost mould the evolving geopolitical and geostrategic environments to their respective advantages . Period . The removal of a tyrannic dynastic rule after more than half a century must have sent ominous tremors throughout the monarchic Arab world . It remained studiously aloof as Syria degenerated into chaos and destruction . In the current environment , it will be required to foot the bill for Syria 's reconstruction through US-led West multinationals , at best . Post-Asaad the environment thus appears more conducive for the revival of the Abraham Accords . The EU will submissively follow the US and Israel 's lead . China , as is its wont , is in a wait and see mode . <p> The major losers in this Syrian conundrum have been Iran , Russia , Hezbollah and the Palestinian cause . Russia would want to maintain its strategic reach and sphere of influence in the Mediterranean Sea Region . To that end , it will engage the HTS to retain its air and naval bases in Syria . Iran has lost its bridgehead ( Syria ) into the region and along with it , its main supply route to its main protege Hizbollah in Lebanon . Its strategic reach has been circumscribed . Hizbollah has been seriously mauled . This is reflecting adversely on its other proteges like the Houthis , Hamas etc too . It and Russia will now need to redefine their strategy to remain pertinent to Syria , the region and the Palestinian cause . <p> Israel is arguably the sole winner in this Syrian imbroglio , apart from the Syrian people . It has emerged much stronger , much more assertive and aggressive in the post-Asaad period . It has rapidly wrested the initiative and moved purposefully to turn the emerging geopolitical and geostrategic environments to its advantage . It appears to be following a two-pronged strategy . One , it has moved very decisively to expand its perimeter of security deep into Syria . It has advanced beyond the Golan Heights , has occupied the UN-maintained buffer zone and Mount Hermon as well . These expansionist measures are being termed as necessary albeit temporary steps till such time Syria settles down to a peaceful , orderly system of governance and all potential threats to Israel therefrom have been effectively neutralized . The Israeli political forces however are already clamouring to expand its borders to these occupied limits inside Syria . The IDF is now just a few kilometres away from Damascus , has occupied several Syrian villages , forcibly disarmed their people and is now positioned advantageously to threaten the new political dispensation and people of Syria even more emphatically . The US-led West and international media have maintained their customary and seemingly ordained criminal silence over Israel 's blatant incursions , excesses and expansionism . With Russia , Iran and Hizbollah rendered practically inconsequential , Israel now has a far greater freedom of action in all Arab lands like Gaza , the West Bank , Syria and beyond . All this makes HTS ' lightning advance into Damascus very meaningful . Is Asaad 's despotic regime being replaced by intrusive , assertive , dictatorial US-Israeli hegemony ? Were these effects foreseen or planned for ? Or is it an unpredicted strategic faux pas that has emerged in the pursuit of self-serving national interests only ? <p> Two , it has acted authoritatively to exploit the power vacuum in Syria and turn it into a weapons-free zone . It has carried out over 500 air strikes on all known weapons , munitions depots/dumps , military infrastructure , chemical weapon and missile sites etc . Furthermore , it intends to ensure that no major military equipment , weapons or munitions , fall into inimical militant/terrorist hands . It has tried to limit Syria 's strategic capacities and capabilities and curtail all possible armed/military threats from Syria for good . To that end , Israel has established radars , communications , intelligence gathering , observation and surveillance facilities on Mount Hermon . This places it and its IDF in a very advantageous position vis a vis any potential military or militant movement or activity from Syria towards Israel . The strategic balance is now overwhelmingly in Israel 's favour . <p> The most serious threat to Syria , the region , and world peace is its potential balkanization . Currently , there is no one central authority that has its writ on the whole of Syria and its people . Syria is currently occupied by various powers through their proxies . Turkiye is dominating the North-North West of Syria through SNA . The US is present in and dominates the East and Northeast through the SDF . Israel is occupying a large tract of Syria in its South-South West . The remainder of Syria appears to be under the control of the HTS , its affiliates and other groups . This is a pure , diabolical witches ' brew if there ever was one ! How on earth are the conflicting and clashing interests of the main militant groups , regional and global players going to be satiated ? Is a virtual land grab and slugfest in the offing ? How are all Syrian factions and their respective backers going to agree to one central authority and system ? Will erstwhile terrorist groups get legitimized ? If Syria is to degenerate into a fatal civil war it will take the region down with it ! <p> Does Israel have the manpower and resources to achieve its ambition of the elusive Greater Israel ? Will then Iran be next ? And ominously , will this marauding Armageddon creep further east of Iran ? ( The Creeping Armageddon by this scribe , The Nation , 14 &amp; 15 February 2020 and Armageddon Creeps On , 30 October and 01 November 2023 ) . Regional and global geopolitics are predictably on tenterhooks , on edge ! ! <p> Imran MalikThe writer is a retired brigadier of the Pakistan Army . He can be reached at im.k846@gmail.com and tweets @K846Im.
