<h> Murdered with impunity <p> The ongoing conflict in Gaza has taken a profoundly devastating toll , particularly on the youngest and most vulnerable members of society . Recent reports from the United Nations Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) reveal that Israel has murdered over 46,000 people in Gaza alone , including at least 14,500 Palestinian children , since its genocidal response to the October 7 , 2023 terror attack , in which 1,180 Israelis were killed . The Hamas-led attack on Israel , like the actions of the Israeli government and military , primarily targeted civilians - 797 of the 1,180 people killed in the Hamas-led terror attack were civilians , including 36 children . Meanwhile , over 70% of the 52,000-plus victims of the Israeli Defence Force 's reign of terror across the region are women and children . <p> Unfortunately , because they are mostly Palestinian , the US and other Israeli allies do n't see any problem . In fact , when it comes to Israel , even American lives do n't matter to Washington . In September , after an American woman was shot in the head by Israeli security forces while she was peacefully protesting against illegal Israeli settlements in the West Bank , President Joe Biden defended Israel , calling the death a " tragic error " , and facing no pushback from mainstream American leaders . His own party would probably have impeached him if he had made a similar comment about any of the unarmed black and brown people killed by trigger-happy American policemen . <p> Meanwhile , incoming president Donald Trump has already given Israel permission to " do whatever you have to do " , referring to wiping out the entire population of Gaza , if necessary , to eliminate Hamas . We should also note that the State Department has reportedly recommended sanctions against the Israeli military , but the Biden administration has blocked even public mention of the suggestion , lest it enter the zeitgeist and lead to awareness among Americans about the crimes being committed with their taxes . Governments that devalue the lives of their own citizens can not be expected to take meaningful action to protect the children of others .
