<h> The changing nature of war and Pakistan <p> The writer is a retired major general and has an interest in International Relations and Political Sociology . He can be reached at tayyarinam@hotmail.com and tweets @20Inam <p> It was in December 2021 that I wrote a piece titled ' Future of Warfare ' published here , sequel to a series of write-ups on warfare that covered the technical , technological and theoretical aspects of warfare . <p> Discussion included the shift of traditional construct of warfare broadly from ' Limited ' to ' Total ' to ' Full Spectrum ' warfare . ' Full Spectrum ' conflict being limited and/or full employment of all " hybrid " capabilities - including non-traditional tools like networks ( including social media - SMNs ) , media in all forms , electronic and digital tools , space and nuclear leverages , etc - in symmetric and/or asymmetric military , perceptual , virtual and societal domains , etc . <p> This discussion concluded that : a ) waging war today may seem " easier " as distant killing by remote-controlled machines ( killer robots , drones , etc ) , in a more abstract combat , makes violence more tolerable and palatable , hence more likely . We are seeing this in Gaza ; b ) uneven technological innovation among states may cause misperceptions about adversary 's military capabilities ( and actual balance of power ) , leading to miscalculations . Such misperceptions and potential miscalculations might increase fear , uncertainty and risk . This is especially true for the nuclear domain ; c ) autonomous , AI-driven machines might run amok at some stage . Human casualties - in a US Army wargame - caused machines to escalate in unexpected ways that humans could n't control ; d ) greater investment by private sector in AI-specific R&amp;D has weakened state control of talent . The entailing price reduction has caused proliferation of these dual-purpose technologies in surveillance , drones , encryption , AI and genomics , accessible to unwanted , state and non-state actors ; e ) social media-savvy Millennials and Generation Z under the globe-sweeping currents of ' populism ' are defending citizenry against state control , upending the national security paradigms ; f ) cyber-crime in the technology-rich environment under hacker-soldiers is becoming ubiquitous threat to states , multinational companies and even influential individuals ; g ) given that there is no agreed code of conduct for conflict over the ' four global commons ' ( outer space , high seas , atmosphere and Antarctica ) , the potential conflict may be unregulated , hence may spin out of control . <p> The nom-de-gore assigned to the prevalent mode of warfare is " Hybrid Warfare " . It loosely means the application of military and non-military force ( especially media including SMNs , IT , espionage , surveillance , propaganda and perception management , etc ) to target military and non-military components of an adversary . In relational terms , war in Europe and the broader Sino-Russia-Iran-North Korea versus the US comflict ( competition plus conflict ) has and would hamper global economic potential , gravitating the global economic order towards Asia , which has remained relatively unscathed during the Corona pandemic and the ravages of recent wars . <p> States monopoly over violence will weaken , due to outsourcing of war to public-private enterprise , and cheaper availability of tools of warfare to non-state actors and proxy forces . As a consequence , the less capable , weak and less sophisticated global south and other actors would resort to asymmetric capabilities , employing what is called the " gray-zone tactics " - using incremental aggression , information warfare , proxy forces and covert special operations , without tripping adversary 's large-scale conventional response . Large scale wars between conventional armies , as we have known , may phase out . <p> Environmentally , rising temperatures would negatively affect health , economic productivity and basing of military forces , necessitating stand-off application of military force , as preferred option . Water scarcity , greater urbanization and weather-induced migrations would enhance violence . Such war fighting requires substantial security resources . Mega cities complicate differentiating military and civilian targets , particularly for air power and other stand-off weapons . The widespread destruction in the Middle East by the Israeli Air power and other stand-off munitions is incidental as well as intentional . <p> The emergence of " Virtual Societal Warfare " enabled by advanced IT/SMNs , morphing into cyber-aggression , in order to manipulate and disrupt economic and social order has and would increase in scope . Non-attributable misinformation and disinformation and fake content these days is a harbinger of things expected . <p> " Battlefield Swarming " using low-cost technological tools would possibly address the asymmetry between belligerents to some extent , as cited earlier . Iran 's response to Israel more recently is an example . The emerging technologies - robotics , AI , unmanned systems , data manipulation and networking , etc - would need compatible military policies , doctrine , operational strategy , training and force-development strategy . AI is one such disruptive technologies with no state monopolising its access . Cyberspace is beginning to become the primary arena of espionage with more data digitisation and cloud-based storage . There is already talk about possible deployment of space-based weapons including nukes . <p> During the Sino-India stand-off in Aksai Chin in October 2022 , this scribe maintained the near impossibility of a broader Sino-India war due to ' difference in potential ' . However , with Pakistan , India will continue its policy of attempted politico-military coercion , incremental operational/tactical escalation , economic strangulation and diplomatic legitimacy for its behaviour . India will continue to employ extensive perception-management tools like SMNs , deep and shallow fakes , AI-driven " social bots " , etc . <p> Our strategic conundrum of preparing for future war , and inability to completely break from conventional mode , under a challenged economic situation , can be resolved through a bold and aggressive nuclear policy . Through increased range , precision and stand-off in the air-delivered , sea-launched or even ground-based weapons , Pakistan can comfortably maintain a credible second-strike alternative-platform capability . Modi and his hysterical mob know no other language . It is now or never !
