<h> The new brand of East India Company <p> LOYALTY to any individual or political party , must never overshadow loyalty to Pakistan and neither should the ambitions of the paid elite . They all exist because of Pakistan and not vice versa . It is time for introspection by each one of us , especially political leadership including IK , MNS , AZ and members of the paid elite to ask , what John F Kennedy stated " Ask not what your country can do for you- ask what you can do for your country " . Not many within ruling elite , including those presently at helm and all others who have held power since 1956 onwards , can honestly state that they have delivered , what each one of them owed to Pakistan . For the sake of posterity , our identity and that of our own kith and kin , survival of Pakistan as a sovereign independent state is very vital . <p> In 1757 Mir Syed Jafer who served as commander in Bengal 's army , betrayed Sirajud Duala , by conspiring with Robert Clive in the Battle of Plassey , to facilitate East India Company 's entry into India . They rewarded Mir Jafer to ascend to the " masnad " after their victory . Betrayal was in the DNA of Mir Jafer , who in 1758 , conspired with Dutch colonialists and this ultimately led to his abdication and replacement by his son-in-law Qasim . However , Mir Jaffer was ultimately restored as Nawab in 1763 . Colonialists , irrespective of whether they were British or Dutch , believed in the pedigree of human-beings and preferred those willing to succumb to temptation and greed and had no pangs of conscience in betraying their motherland . The descendants of the likes of Tipu Sultan were either wiped out , or deprived of their belongings and titles , while the likes of Mir Jafer were rewarded . Maj Gen Iskandar Mirza was a direct descendent of Mir Jaffer and he conspired with AK to derail the democratic process . This country has suffered , because it failed to cleanse the stables of the rot , left behind the Colonial Raj . Pakistan suffers today because of the compromises made by the mediocrity that came at helm after the unfortunate death of Quaid-e-Azam in September 1948 . <p> Pakistan 's Defensive Nuclear Deterrence was acquired in response to India 's underground test at Pokhran on May 18 1974 , followed by explosion of five nuclear devices between 11 and 13 May 1998 . The Indian Home Minister L. K. Advani stated " Islamabad should realize the change in the geo-strategic situation in the region and the world . It must roll back its anti-India policy especially with regard to Kashmir " . This was a very threatening message , after acquiring nuclear capability . Given India 's role in 1971 debacle , this was enough to raise alarm bells in Pakistan . ZAB realized gravity of the situation . He was of the opinion that in a conventional war , Pakistan lacked capacity to counter India 's hegemony and evil designs . It goes to his credit that he hosted Islamic Conference at Lahore between 22nd to 24 February 1974 . He was aware that India planned to carry out nuclear tests shortly . It is believed that he discussed Pakistan 's apprehensions in sideline meetings held between Shah Faisal , Muammar Qaddafi , where they committed to fund this project . All three of them were later killed by CIA , through their proxies . Pakistan 's sole effective defence capability , against a bigger and more powerful enemy , which has never accepted creation of Pakistan , is our nuclear assets . It is India specific , given their threatening posture and nobody else . Any compromise on this , whatever maybe the compulsions , or offers of monetary assistance , or circumstances faced by any political party , it is not an option to be exercised . This should be loud and clear to all within the country or abroad . <p> The powerful Zionist Lobby in Washington and Tel Aviv have been vocal in their opposition and desire to neutralize Pakistan 's Nuclear Defence Deterrence capability , although Pakistan has made it clear at international forums that this is solely for our defence against India . Even a relatively weaker PM , could not dare to succumb to intense pressure of economic and military sanctions , threatened by President Clinton , who personally came to Pakistan to warn the federal government . Given this background , there is no justification , whatsoever for PTI US , based in Houston , to openly welcome sanctions on Pakistan 's Ballistic Missile delivery system , recently announced by the Biden Administration . Sajid Burki 's tweet on X that " The beginning of sanctions against the regime in Pakistan that is busy terrorizing people of Pakistan , rather than paying attention to the security issues of that country " , is uncalled-for and can not be justified . <p> The fact is that this unjustified American response was instigated by powerful Zionist Lobby in connivance with Indian Lobby and can not be a consequence of PTI America lobbying , as they are trying to project . This tweet by S Burki was to appease AIPAC and Indian Lobby and win some brownie points . Greed and temptation have led a few people astray , but they have rarely crossed this red line , where national security is compromised . These sanctions , in all probability were already under process of Biden Administration and there was no reason for PTI to get involved in this malicious anti-Pakistan campaign . PTI Pakistan and its popular leader Imran Khan must publicly disown this stance by S Burki and terminate his basic membership , as was done in the case of Salman Ahmed , the popular singer , associated with Janoon Group , who was one of the founding members of PTI . The reasons for termination of Salman 's membership are trivial as compared to acts of Sajad Burki . As long as Hindu extremists , with links to extremist Zionists led by Netanyahu , are at helm in India , Pakistan needs to be very careful . Netanyahu has committed the worst genocide in Gaza . No sane Muslim should be even remotely linked with condoning or welcoming sanctions on Pakistan 's defence capability . PTI and IK owe this to Pakistan which has benefitted him , far more than many others .
