<h> Israel killed Ismail Haniyeh , a minister acknowledges <h> JERUSALEM -- Israel Katz , the defense minister , admitted Monday that Israel had killed Ismail Haniyeh , the former head of Hamas , in Tehran earlier this year , but he also threatened to " decapitate " the Houthi leadership in Yemen . <p> " We 're going to hit the Houthis hard . " We will decapitate their leadership in Hodeida and Sanaa , just as we did with Haniyeh , Yahya Sinwar , and Hassan Nasrallah in Tehran , Gaza , and Lebanon , " Katz stated . <p> Speaking at a defense ministry event , he made the first public admission that Israel was responsible for the killing of Haniyeh in the Iranian capital in late July , one day after he was present at Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian 's inauguration . <p> Katz stated in a ministry statement that " anyone who raises a hand against Israel will have his hand cut off , and the long arm of the IDF ( Israeli military ) will strike him and hold him accountable . " <p> This is the first time an Israeli official has acknowledged that Tel Aviv was involved in the assassination of Ismail Haniyeh on Iranian land , even though Tel Aviv acknowledged the strikes that targeted Sinwar and Nasrallah . <p> Iran launched what it called a " barrage of missiles " at targets inside Israel in October , escalating tensions between the two regional arch-rivals . Despite Israel 's claims that it destroyed the majority of the projectiles before they struck , several missiles did strike different parts of the nation , though no significant casualties were reported . <p> The assassinations of Hassan Nasrallah , IRGC commander Abbas Nilforoushan , and Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in Tehran in July were cited by Tehran at the time as the reasons for the strike . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness .
