<h> How Trump 's return could redefine US politics in 2025 <p> US President-elect Donald Trump has high expectations from American voters after being elected to his second term in the White House , but the journey to achieving those goals is going to be a challenging one from the moment he is sworn into office on Jan 20 . <p> The economy was the number one issue facing Americans during Trump 's presidential campaign , specifically inflation and high prices at the grocery store . <p> " They 're going to be affording their groceries very soon , " Trump said at a ceremony honoring him as Time Magazine 's Person of the Year on Dec. 12 in New York City . <p> But that may not be the case , at least not immediately , according to Ed Hirs , an energy fellow at the University of Houston 's Department of Economics . <p> Trump has said he plans to slap tariffs of up to 25% on goods imported from the United States ' top trade partners , including Mexico and Canada . If he follows through on his campaign promises to raise import taxes , Hirs told Anadolu that the result may end up being higher prices for American consumers . <p> " This is the component of tariffs that the Trump administration does n't get . It 's not a one-way free money type of situation or game or strategic move , " said Hirs . " If I raise the tariffs on Mexican products by 25% and I 'm a US manufacturer who now has the ability to raise his prices 25% , that 's what will happen . " <p> Hirs said the United States , Mexico and Canada have a combined trade and investment price tag of about $1.8 trillion per year and pointed out that higher prices will go beyond food products and retail goods if Trump follows through on his tariff hikes to those countries . <p> " Canada is really important , because we import about 4 million barrels of oil a day from Canada . A 25% tariff on that is certainly going to hit every consumer across the nation , because , of course , the domestic producers will be able to raise their prices to match that , " Hirs said . <p> While Trump boasted on the campaign trail that " when I win , I will immediately bring prices down , starting on day one , " he seemed to temper those lofty expectations during his Time Magazine interview . <p> " It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up , " he said . " It 's very hard ... but I think that they will ... I think a better supply chain is going to bring them down . You know , the supply chain is still broken . " <p> Trump also believes the US immigration system is broken and has vowed to overhaul the country 's immigration laws starting with mass deportations and ending birthright citizenship . Republicans in Congress are also prioritizing border security measures and creating new laws as part of an expected budget immigration package . <p> Hirs told Anadolu that mass deportations of millions of undocumented migrants will likely have a far-reaching effect on the US economy because it would reduce the overall workforce in sectors that require manual labor or jobs that the average American does not want to do , such as lawncare work or dishwashing and bussing tables at restaurants . He pointed to jobs in the Permian Basin oil fields in western Texas as another example . <p> " Because out there , it 's difficult to get workers who can take being out in the 120-degree ( Fahrenheit/48.89 Celsius ) heat , you know , on a long summer day working on oil rigs ... and deporting them is going to instantly drive up the cost of finding replacement labor across the United States , " he said . <p> When it comes to relations with China , Trump is aiming to mend fences after admitting recently that the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 had strained his relationship with President Xi Jinping during his first term in the Oval Office . <p> " We had a very good relationship until COVID , " Trump told reporters at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida , calling Xi his " friend " and saying that the Chinese president " is an amazing guy . " <p> " COVID did n't end the relationship , " Trump added . " But it was a bridge too far for me . " <p> A trade war erupted between the United States and China during Trump 's first term which uprooted global supply chains and hurt the American economy , since the US is China 's largest trading partner . Economies across the globe were affected by the US-China trade war and inflation skyrocketed worldwide . <p> But Trump has indicated that he plans to pick up where he left off by ending China 's most-favored-nation trading status and slapping tariffs on Chinese imports anywhere between 60% and 100% , which could initiate another trade war and disrupt the American economy once again . <p> " If Trump goes ahead with his policy , including the 25% tariffs for Mexico and Canada , there will be , and I 'm choosing my words very carefully here , a sharp increase in inflation like you 've never seen before , " said Hirs , who pointed out what happened during Trump 's first presidential term when the trade war escalated . <p> " As we know from the last time Trump attacked China with tariffs , China responded with not just higher tariffs on US goods , but stopped importing grain from the United States , " he continued . " If that were to occur like it did last time , I mean , last time , we had two years of crops pile up across the farm belt . " <p> The United States ' involvement with international conflicts is another issue that the Trump administration will have to address , including the Israeli-Palestinian war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Trump 's alliance to Israel is no secret , but with the genocide of more than 45,000 Palestinians from continued Israeli airstrikes since the conflict began on Oct. 7 , 2023 , the president-elect 's handling of the war will be placed under a microscope both domestically and internationally . <p> During his first term in office , Trump became the first Western leader to officially recognize Israel 's control over the Golan Heights , which it seized from Syria in 1967 , but now that Trump has secured a second term , some members of the Israeli government hope he will further recognize the country 's objective to annex settlements in the West Bank , which is currently occupied by Palestinians . <p> " I intend , with God 's help , to lead a government decision that says the government of Israel will work with the new administration of President Trump and the international community to apply Israeli sovereignty over Judea and Samaria , " said Israeli Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich at a recent news conference . <p> Hirs told Anadolu that the US has no obligation to step in to help either side . <p> " The tragedy of the Gaza Strip is that millions of people are truly facing famine , going from living in homes to living in tents on beaches and exposed to the elements without food , " he said . " This is carnage . This is war in the worst way , and I do n't know if the incoming Trump administration is inclined to help rebuild some sort of working society in Gaza . " <p> The Russia-Ukraine war will also be on Trump 's plate the moment he steps back into the White House and the president-elect told reporters that he plans to talk to both Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about ending the war that has persisted for nearly three years . <p> " Got ta make a deal , " Trump said , referring to what both leaders needed to do to end the war . " It 's got to stop . I mean , there are cities that there 's not a building standing . It 's a demolition site . " <p> Like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , Hirs said the US has no responsibility to intervene in the Russia-Ukraine war , and even though Trump said he would like for the two countries to come up with a cease-fire agreement , ultimately , the US does not have to get involved . <p> " The European Union is going to have to step up its defense of Ukraine , " said Hirs , who cautioned that if Trump removes the United States from involvement in major international affairs , including threatening to pull America 's membership from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) , that could set the stage for other world superpowers to supersede US supremacy globally . <p> " If Trump does n't step up for leadership in this arena , that leaves a vacuum , and so Xi , Putin or the EU could step in , diminishing the United States ' role as a global leader , which could be a serious repercussion , " he said . <p> Another global interest that Trump must address is climate change , a topic that he has called a fabrication by Democrats . The focal point of this discussion is the Inflation Reduction Act ( IRA ) , a law that is expected to reduce US emissions by about 40% by 2030 , with an investment of more than $300 billion to reduce greenhouse gas emissions , initiate investments in clean energy and offer tax breaks for consumers and subsidies to manufacturers for products such as electric vehicles . <p> Trump has already threatened to repeal some of the measures passed in the bill , reinforcing his energy philosophy of " drill , baby , drill . " But since a lot of Republican congressional districts have already begun manufacturing projects to earn these tax credits , experts believe it will be difficult for Trump to roll back some of those clean energy policies for fear of a backlash from his Republican constituents , and with his appointment of Tesla CEO Elon Musk to head up the new Department of Government Efficiency ( DOGE ) , removing those types of tax breaks does not appear likely . <p> " One of the foundation principles of finance is that volatility hurts markets , and volatility is the enemy of Wall Street , and whipsaw policies do not help the private sector or society in general , " said Hirs . " The data I 've seen show that 80% of the spending for the IRA is in red ( Republican ) districts ... so you know , pulling that money out is what would have a serious impact on local economies that have been counting on that . " <p> " Nothing the Trump administration can do can reverse the energy transition , " he continued . " They can slow it , but they ca n't reverse it . " <p> Whether Trump will be successful in addressing all these issues is yet to be seen , but his agenda is stacked with critical domestic and international policies that need to be addressed immediately once he is inaugurated on Jan. 20 , and there is sure to be some type of scrutiny and backlash from his critics and allies alike , which is nothing new for the president-elect . <p> Ultimately , American voters will decide at the ballot box come the mid-term elections in 2026 , which will once again determine the structure of power between Republicans and Democrats in Congress . At that point , it will be clearer to evaluate whether Trump is dealing with these policies effectively .
