<p> As the country celebrated the 148th birthday of Quaid-i-Azam Mohammad Ali Jinnah on Wednesday , President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif vowed to build a Pakistan that reflects Jinnah 's vision of inclusivity and rights for religious minorities . <p> The day dawned with gun salutes in the federal and provincial capitals followed by a change of the guard 's ceremony at Quaid-i-Azam 's mausoleum in Karachi , where a contingent of Pakistan Military Academy Kakul assumed guard duties , Radio Pakistan reported . <p> Special programmes were arranged during the day to pay tribute to the Father of the Nation . <p> In a statement , President Zardari reiterated his commitment to religious harmony , mutual respect , and protection of minority rights in the country . <p> He said , " The Constitution guarantees the fundamental rights of all citizens , irrespective of their faith and our founding father Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah also envisioned a Pakistan where people of all religions could thrive as equal citizens . " <p> He added that upholding the rights of all citizens is essential for fostering national unity and progress . <p> President Zardari said that in order to achieve Quaid 's vision , " we must invest in the education of our youth , ensuring that they are equipped with the knowledge and skills to lead Pakistan into a brighter future . We also need to work for the uplift of downtrodden segments of society " . <p> " Jinnah 's dream of a peaceful and moderate Pakistan obliges us to promote harmony within and beyond our borders , " the president said . <p> " On this day , we honour the contributions of the Father of the Nation , who changed the course of history through a political struggle . Quaid-i-Azam 's vision , determination and unwavering resolve led to the creation of an independent homeland for Muslims of the subcontinent , " President Secretariat Press Wing , in a press release , quoted the president as saying . <p> The president also highlighted the occasion of Christmas being celebrated today and called for " ensuring that intolerance and discrimination are discouraged and everyone feels respected and safe in the country " . <p> Zardari appreciated the role of the Christian community in Pakistan 's development stating " they have excelled in education , healthcare , community service , social welfare , and public service and their contributions are a testament to our national diversity . " <p> He said , " Let us carry the spirit of Christmas throughout the year , working together to build a society rooted in peace , justice , and compassion . " <p> In his statement , PM Shehbaz vowed to continue ensuring that " people of all faiths can practice their beliefs freely and contribute to the collective progress of our nation " , Radio Pakistanstated . <p> " Today , as we celebrate the 148th birth anniversary of our Founding Father , Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah , we are reminded of his extraordinary vision , unwavering courage and unparalleled determination . He achieved what many thought impossible and gifted us our homeland , Pakistan , " the prime minister said . <p> PM Shehbaz said that Quaid 's life continued to inspire countless people as an enlightened teacher , visionary lawyer , principled statesman , steadfast politician , and charismatic leader . " His journey is a testament to the power of conviction and the realisation of dreams through hard work and dedication , " he said . <p> Expressing his heartfelt felicitations to the Christian brethren in Pakistan and around the world on Christmas , the premier reaffirmed his commitment to safeguard the rights of all religious communities and foster an environment of mutual respect and understanding . <p> He called for reflecting on the profound message of peace , brotherhood , and love for all humanity as taught by Prophet Isa who preached values of compassion , kindness , mercy , and wisdom . <p> The prime minister paid tribute to the invaluable contributions made by the Christian community for the progress and stability of Pakistan , particularly in the fields of education , healthcare , and nation-building . <h> PM urges nation to take care of religious minorities <p> Speaking at a special event held in Islamabad to mark Christmas , PM Shehbaz urged the nation to " work together for peace , progress and prosperity " . <p> Noting that Prophet Isa ( Jesus ) and his mother , Maryam ( Mary ) , were mentioned in the Holy Quran , the premier highlighted the importance accorded to them among Muslims . <p> Referring to Bethlehem in the Israel-occupied West Bank , he said : " Murder and brutality are rampant in the birthplace of Prophet Isa today and thousands of Palestinians have been killed . " <p> PM Shehbaz further called on the world to raise its voice to bring an end to Israel 's onslaught by securing a ceasefire in Gaza . <p> The prime minister went on to highlight the achievements of the Christian community residing in Pakistan , who he said " lived with great peace " here . <p> He recalled their feats in various fields , including education , as well as their role in securing the borders and various wars . He also mentioned former chief justice of Pakistan Alvin Robert Cornelius and human rights activist Cecil Chaudhry . <p> Calling for promoting brotherhood , the premier stressed , " We should act with patience and tolerance , keeping our emotions in control . We should take care of the religious minorities in our country in every way , treating them with care and affection , so that they consider themselves a proud part of this country . " <h> Chief ministers across country vow to protect minorities <p> On the occasion , Sindh Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah and Governor Kamran Tessori ? visited Mazar-e-Quaid , where they laid floral wreaths , offered fateha , and recorded their impressions in the visitor 's book . <p> CM Shah stressed it depended on the nation whether to follow Quaid 's vision and values , calling for unity and pledging to make Pakistan a " peace-loving and developed " country . <p> Punjab CM Maryam Nawaz also vowed to ensure protection for minority communities in her province , which saw an incident of mob violence in May that resulted in a Christian man 's death . <p> Addressing a Christmas event in Lahore , she said : " My entire focus is on building a better Pakistan and Punjab for you , where you can sleep peacefully , without worrying that someone would come and hit you and burn your house , or there would be mob violence . <p> " My special focus is that you get that sense of inclusion , participation and ownership , " the chief minister added . <p> " If the state is like a mother , then your chief minister is also like a mother . Like a mother does not discriminate among her children , there is no religious discrimination in my mind and heart . <p> " Whether it is a Christian , Hindu , Sikh , or belongs to any other religion , they are my crown and their protection and well-being is my responsibility , " Maryam asserted . <p> The Punjab CM said she was aiming that religious minorities are an " equal shareholder " in whatever projects her government launched . <p> Recalling Quaid 's dreams of a prosperous Pakistan , the KP CM stressed the need today to " play our individual and collective role by rising above our political affiliations to make this country a great Islamic welfare state , as per the vision of Pakistan 's founders " . <p> CM Gandapur called for establishing a system of " law , justice and merit " in the country , terming them as the basic principles of a welfare state . <p> In his statement on Christmas , the chief minister noted that the Constitution guaranteed Christians " complete freedom to celebrate their festivals and practice their religion and traditions " . <p> He affirmed that his KP government believed in protecting religious minorities , their property and their rights , and was taking concrete steps for it . " The prevailing situation in the country demands that interfaith harmony be promoted at all levels , " CM Gandapur stressed . <p> Balochistan CM Sarfraz Bugti also highlighted Quaid 's values , calling on the public to pledge to play its role for national unity and stability . <p> Separately , a post on former prime minister Imran Khan 's X account , which is not operated directly by him , stressed : " We must resolve to build a peaceful and prosperous Pakistan , rooted in justice for all its citizens . " <p> Another post wished " Christian citizens a Happy Christmas , full of peace and joy " . <h> COAS Gen Munir joins Christmas celebration at Rawalpindi Church <p> Meanwhile , Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) General Asim Munir joined the Christian community in celebrating Christmas at Rawalpindi 's St. Joseph 's Catholic Cathedral Church , underscoring the spirit of inclusivity and harmony . <p> COAS Asim Munir speaks at Rawalpindi 's St. Joseph 's Catholic Cathedral Church on the occasion of Christmas on Dec 25 , 2024. -- via APP <p> The congregation extended a warm welcome to the COAS , expressing gratitude for his presence and solidarity during this cherished occasion , the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) said in a statement . <p> The army chief conveyed his heartfelt Christmas greetings to the Christian community across the nation , emphasising that the occasion " serves as a profound reminder of the universal values of compassion , generosity , and goodwill -- principles that bind our diverse society together " . <p> " He further acknowledged the remarkable contributions of minorities and Christian community to Pakistan 's cultural , social , economic and national progress , which remain a source of pride and strength for the nation , " the ISPR said . <p> On the occasion , Gen Munir also paid a solemn tribute to the Founder of the Nation , highlighting Quaid 's " visionary leadership , unwavering determination , and steadfast adherence to the principles of Faith , Unity and Discipline " , which " not only paved the way for the creation of Pakistan but also provided a timeless blueprint for nation-building " . <p> The COAS remarked that Quaid-e-Azam 's enduring commitment to the ideals of freedom , equality , and religious tolerance " continued to inspire and guide the nation in addressing contemporary challenges , from safeguarding territorial integrity to fostering internal stability " . <h> Quaid 's tireless efforts united our people : ISPR <p> The armed forces also paid " profound homage to the Father of the Nation " on his birthday , the military 's media affairs wing said . <p> On the " auspicious occasion " , Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee General Sahir Shamshad Mirza , the services chiefs , and the armed forces honoured the " enduring vision and unparalleled leadership of Quaid-e-Azam " , the Inter-Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) said . <p> It added that Jinnah 's " tireless efforts united our people and established the foundation for a sovereign and independent Pakistan " . " On this day of national significance , we renew our unwavering commitment to his guiding principles of unity , faith , and discipline , which continue to inspire the nation , " the military said . <p> The armed forces also extended " heartfelt greetings to the Christian community on the joyous occasion of Christmas " . " In solidarity with our Christian brothers and sisters , we celebrate the universal values of love , compassion , and peace that this occasion represents , " the statement said . <p> The military said it remained " resolutely dedicated to safeguarding the nation and upholding the ideals of justice , equality , and harmony in the service of our people and our homeland " .
