<h> Those matters of principle could only be safeguarded if you have the nerves of steel . <p> Young man : Perhaps I did not phrase my question properly . Let me try again . In our country , why do our politicians keep cribbing about the Establishment 's ' intrusive role ' but do not wish to break the shackles ? Whether in power or sitting on the opposition benches , they play the victim card and keep blaming each other for being ' their ' product . I want to know the real reasons for this paradox . Let 's say I clear the CSS exam and get selected for any service ; should n't I be able to know who my real bosses are ? How will I be able to serve the people of my country ? <p> Old man : If I were on the Selection Board , I would have disqualified you for asking this idiotic question . By joining the Government Service , you are bound to serve the Government . It is not the People 's Service . It is the Government Service . Clear your perceptions first . Now , would it matter to you where the orders came from ? Orders are there to be followed . End of story . The only relevant question in bureaucracy is : Sir , how much time do I have to complete this task ? <p> Young man : That is discouraging ... ! ! ! Does it mean whatever my mentor said was a lie ? He said that he never compromised on matters of principle , and he retired as a Federal Secretary . <p> Old man : Those matters of principle could only be safeguarded if you have the nerves of steel required to stay on course . Secondly , ask your mentor if he was able to make any difference . The plaques have his much less educated Minister 's name on them -- the tasks that he completed within the stipulated time . He is living an ordinary retired life in a rented apartment , whereas his clerks have houses for each of their children . What would you prefer ? <p> Young man : Even more discouraging ... ! ! ! Sir , if that is the case , why do thousands of young boys and girls appear for the CSS exam every year ? <p> Old man : They do n't have better choices . Secondly , the driving force here is not to serve the country or the people . The objective is to get a decent job . My dear future bureaucrat , if you want to become a boss , start a business or be a plumber or a motor mechanic . <p> Old man : Both . But skills and talent are not enough to be at the top . You need to be in the right place at the right time as well . <p> Young man : Coming back to my questions again , Sir . How would you explain the takeover of Afghanistan and Syria by bad and good ' terrorists ' respectively under the watchful eyes of the United Nations ? The annihilation of Gaza in the Muslim neighbourhood ? The sudden silence of the lambs between Iran and Israel after an exchange of missiles ? A pat on the back for Netanyahu soon after his indictment by the International Criminal Court ? The open-ended Ukraine war in the heart of Europe ? The Sino-US trade war amidst an increase in bilateral trade ? <p> Old man : Somehow , everyone seems to be in a hurry to achieve the stated and unstated goals while showing no respect for any rules or laws , let alone morals . Everyone is talking . No one is listening . That 's a bad omen . However , do n't worry about your future . The world is not likely to complete its destruction in the next three to four decades . You might be retired by then . For the time being , let those who need to act or react worry about such events . Answers to these questions are not going to help you in any way unless you desire to score a point or two in any WhatsApp group . <p> Old man : Why should I be bothered about something I do n't have any control over ? What bothers me right now is that I am getting late for my dental appointment . <p> Young man : How do you see the ongoing unending political uncertainty in Pakistan , Sir ? When do you think this charade will end ? <p> Old man : For the ones in power , there exists no political uncertainty . Yes , as Khan wants to become the PM again -- his party feels that way . <p> Young man : Last question , Sir . Power politics in the age of Artificial Intelligence ? Why do you think Khan is asking Washington for help ? <p> Old man : Power politics breeds power-hungry foxes . AI is yet another way to wield power . Those who rule economically or otherwise hardly care about the edicts of morality . For them , being in power and making more money is the ultimate objective . In the process , they remain open to new alliances or to sacrificing existing relationships . The world has always been full of paradoxes . The difference ? No one has the time to sugarcoat their desires .... ! ! Did n't you mention the comedy of errors a while ago ? Read that play again and you might find answers to some of your questions . And on Khan , try to understand what Shakespeare said in the same play : Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me , I 'll knock elsewhere , to see if they 'll disdain me.
