<h> Peaceful Horizons <h> Today , the real , positive peace efforts are meagre . <p> As 2024 draws to an end , let us highlight some main events , remembering that there are opportunities too in the New Year 2025 . True , in the old year , many issues remained unresolved , such as the Russian war in Ukraine and the Israeli wars in Gaza and Lebanon , as well as several other conflicts , including the large one in Sudan , which has not been given full attention despite millions being affected and forced into displacement within their own country or abroad . Sadly , autocratic rule has become more common in many countries , increasing from about half the world 's nations ten years ago to over two-thirds today . In the West , democracy is also in need of renewal and strengthening . The new ultra-conservative parties , which are gaining support , must improve their respect for democracy and the rights of the poorest . The old , established parties must renew their ways of thinking and behaviour so that there will be less support for the ultra-conservatives . The social democrats and the centrist conservatives have a special duty to find new and popular ways , not just claim that they lack the right communication policies . <p> A few weeks ago , it was a positive surprise that the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria was overthrown on 8 December 2024 . Finally , the quite eccentric leader 's 24-year-long , brutal government ended , along with his father 's 29 years in power before him . Now the difficult transition to a new and more democratic rule lies ahead in a country full of opposing groups and interests . Syria 's fall was also a defeat and setback to Russia 's role in the Middle East and its further operations in Africa . Iran , too , has now experienced a setback . Although Iran is founded on proud civilisations and cultures , its current regime struggles with moving into modern times to create optimism and a sustainable rule for the future . Israel has a similar problem , lacking sustainable policies and solutions for resolving the conflict with Palestine , having sunk deeper into a quagmire . I have serious doubts about the viability of the two-state solution as outlined in the 1993 Oslo Accords , and every time it is mentioned by foreign politicians , I feel there is little substance or concrete planning behind the words . Yet , a one-state solution can only be an alternative if there are international peacekeepers in the area for several decades to come . <p> In Ukraine , I believe that in 2025 we will see an end to the costly war with its tremendous loss of people and infrastructure . Hopefully , peace negotiations will begin as soon as President-elect Donald Trump is sworn in as the next president of the USA . There too , similar to the Israel-Palestine situation , I believe there will be a need for international peacekeepers and the establishment of a buffer between Russia and Ukraine . It is likely that some of Ukraine 's provinces now occupied by Russia will be administered by Russia for some time , but perhaps not permanently , except for Crimea . The West 's military alliance , NATO , is not likely to accept Ukraine as a member in the near future , as such an agreement must be unanimous , and several member countries would not yet vote affirmatively . Furthermore , others , so-called CIS countries in the region , need to sort out internal issues and long-term relations with Russia and the West , but they are at least partly doing well . <p> On this note , it is a fact that Russia itself , and the CIS countries , have not found their sustainable democratic political systems for the future , nor their political and economic cooperation in the region , with the West , and further afield . The relations between the West and Russia , and the other CIS countries , must be developed in realistic ways and in mutual understanding , including with China , the upcoming superpower , and with the USA , the waning yet strong superpower , and the EU . A stronger and more effective UN could and should play a more prominent role , which is hardly the case today -- and Trump says he is sceptical of the UN , probably mainly because he wants the USA to play a greater role in the world , including through direct , bilateral trade , political , and other relations with other countries . <p> In the West , there is an increased focus on rearmament and a quite unprecedented military build-up , in NATO and each of the 32 member countries . For a decade , it has been a target for all NATO member countries to spend two per cent of their GDP on defence , but now , there are suggestions that the percentage should be higher , even as high as five per cent . I believe it would be a very negative development if the West continues this thinking and action . True , in the world we live in , defence and security play an important role . However , alternatively , there should be broad efforts on peace creation and cooperation . Today , the real , positive peace efforts are meagre . If NATO 's thinking and actions are allowed to continue without active peaceful counter-actions , the world will become more dangerous and less peaceful , contrary to the propaganda and the prevailing Zeitgeist and worldview . Indeed , I believe that we need a paradigm shift and a new breed of politicians and thinkers -- and voters too -- who can usher in a different understanding of democracy and politics in today 's and tomorrow 's world . <p> Whereas we stand on the threshold of a better future for many countries , with an unparalleled quantity and quality of expertise and resources at a level that the world has not seen before , we simultaneously stand on the edge of the opposite , with right-wing political trends , more selfish government and individual and group thinking . We have also not solved the North-South relations after the colonial era ; rather , inequality is increasing between and within countries . Ordinary people 's work is not valued and paid as it should be , and our solidarity with the poor is not honoured . <p> Peace requires all the positive values in us all , and the way to peace and prosperity demands equality . It is proven that democracy is the best way to achieve development and peace within and between countries ; democracies rarely fight wars against each other , it has been observed . Also , the more we talk about democracy and peace , not rearmament , war , and conflict , the deeper the understanding of democracy and peace will develop in our minds and hearts , and through that , in the concrete political actions and administrative systems we establish . Hence , we must talk more about the right and good basic values , how to live together with all human beings , managing the world 's resources and environment . Negative talk , in everyday life , politics and so on , on social and traditional media , should be reduced and belong to the past . We must uplift and celebrate those who do the right thing . <p> Noting that we have already used up a quarter of the current century in the third millennium of our time , I wish and pray that we realise the urgency and begin to talk , teach and discuss more about peace and democracy , striving to make countries , regions , and the whole world more equal for all men and women . We have a duty to ourselves and our fellow human beings of today and tomorrow . That would indeed be doing God 's will , contributing to creating ' heaven on earth ' -- not quite perhaps , but at least being on the right track . <p> Dear Reader , I wish you a Happy New Year 2025 . <p> Atle HetlandThe writer is a senior Norwegian social scientist with experience from university , diplomacy and development aid . He can be reached at atlehetland@yahoo.com
