<p> As 2024 draws to a close , we 've been reflecting on what made this year for us at Images -- the songs , the films , the TV shows , the food , the fashion and the trends that defined 2024 for us . <p> Team Images has compiled its favourites of the year , from food to music . <h> Music <h> A song that brought us together <p> Asfa : I 'd say Coke Studio 15 's ' Blockbuster ' . The song 's pairing of Faris Shafi and Umair Butt ( of Butt Brothers ) , alongside the Gharwi Group , an all-women folk ensemble , became all the rage in both Pakistan and India . While its treatment and stylistic choices made it a miss for me , the track , with its catchy beat , appealed to listeners across diverse musical tastes . Its interplay of modern beats and traditional vocals -- the Gharwi Group 's pre-chorus adding a rich cultural layer to the song -- clearly made it impossible for South Asian audiences to not vibe to it . <p> Mashael : ' Blockbuster ' by Faris Shafi , Umair Butt , Gharwi Group . Few things bridge the divide between Indians and Pakistanis with such joy , and ' Blockbuster ' was top of the list for 2024 . From mehndi dances to Instagram reels , this song was everywhere . The song transcended borders and was a shared anthem of celebration . Chachis , dadis , mammos , and everyone in between was grooving to ' Blockbuster ' , and you simply ca n't help it . With its infectious beats and the Gharwi Group 's iconic verse , this was the song ( in my opinion ) that brought us all together . <p> Siham : ' Hind 's Hall ' by Macklemore started a cultural revolution and brought the whole world together for Palestine . That it was a fund raiser for Palestine was the cherry on top . The song became an anthem for the movement and uniting force for so , so many people . <h> A song that felt like a hug <p> A : ' O Yaara ' from Coke Studio 15 was definitely a warm , nostalgic hug . With its delicate blend of indie and ghazal influences , the song wraps around you . The tender interplay between Abdul Hannan and Jaffer Zaidi 's vocals feels deeply personal . Its soothing melody and heartfelt lyrics invite you to pause , breathe , and let its gentle embrace wash over you . <p> M : ' Birds of a Feather ' by Billie Eilish . The soft , intimate soundscape coupled with beautifully personal lyrics , invokes a sense of warmth in the listener . The minimalistic production and Eilish 's delicate , almost whispered vocals create an atmosphere of vulnerability and comfort , and made me feel like I was wrapped in a warm blanket . The lyrics and her impeccable vocal delivery remind me of my loved ones . <p> S : ' Too Sweet ' by Hozier . I would n't consider this a traditional song to include in this section , but it 's a hug nonetheless . <h> A song that told them who 's boss <p> A : Globally , it has to be ' Not Like Us ' by Kendrick Lamar . The Drake diss , complete with allegations that could destroy his career , went viral this year for all the right reasons . With its scathing song-writing , contagious production , and power-pact delivery , ' Not Like Us ' became Lamar 's mic-drop moment of 2024 , eviscerating Drake and solidifying his place as the ultimate boss in the rap game . <p> Locally , I 'd say ' Kaun Talha ' by Talha Anjum . The track is an unapologetic , razor-sharp response to Indian rapper Naezy . Packed with clever wordplay , unapologetic expletives , and a beat that transitions from playful to menacing , the song is a proclamation of supremacy , cementing Anjum as the ' King of Urdu Rap ' . <p> M : ' Defying Gravity ' by Cynthia Ervio and Ariana Grande , from Wicked . ' Defying Gravity ' is the ultimate " tell them who 's boss " anthem because it 's a declaration of self-empowerment and breaking free from expectations . I know this song is n't new , but this iteration is simply stunning , from Ervio 's powerful vocals to Grande 's perfect harmonisation . The lyrics are bold and defiant , and Ervio 's delivery adds new vigour to them , particularly when she scream-sings the iconic war cry -- I will never not get goosebumps . The music itself starts quietly but rises into a triumphant crescendo with soaring notes that mirror her emotional liberation and literal physical ascent on her broom . It 's a musical mic drop made all the better with Ervio singing live as she 's acting . Stunning . <p> S : I have two songs for this category -- Kendrick Lamar 's ' Not Like Us ' and Hanumankind 's ' Big Dawgs ' . Kendrick 's on this list for obvious reasons -- he really showed Drake who 's the boss . You just have to listen to ' Big Dawgs ' to know why it 's on this list -- it 's a boss song . <h> A song that became a cultural phenomenon <p> A : Charli xcx 's ' Apple ' and ' 365 ' from her album brat have to be this year 's cultural phenomenons . In fact , the whole album , with its glitchy beats , blending hyperpop and experimental sounds became a sensation . Not only did it inspire several TikTok trends but its bold aesthetic also channelled a wave of " brat fashion " , with fans donning cyberpunk looks to playfully recreate its edgy spirit . <p> M : ' Girl so confusing ' by Charli xcx featuring Lorde . Everything Lorde touches turns to gold , and a song featuring her and Charli xcx -- the undeniable queen of music this year -- was the pinnacle of female friendships in pop music for 2024 . What started off as the two pop icons being mistaken for each other early in their careers , blossomed into a song where both give their sides of the story , talk about the pressures of being a woman and finally understanding each other . " Forgot that inside the icon , there 's still a young girl from Essex " . The video of the two dancing to the song at Charli 's birthday made it even more of a cultural phenomenon . <p> S : ' Espresso ' by Sabrina Carpenter . This song was EVERYWHERE and ended up becoming a cultural phenomenon not because it was so good , but because of the energy behind the song -- hyper femininity , self love , and TikTok trends aplenty . <h> A song that gave us the main character energy <p> M : ' Espresso ' by Sabrina Carpenter . That 's that ME espresso . Sabrina Carpenter 's summer bop screams main character energy , she knew her worth and she was letting us know too . <p> A : Before ' Espresso ' became all the rage , Ariana Grande 's ' Yes , and ? ' channelled the kind of main character energy I was looking for this year . The track , a bold fusion of pop and R&amp;B , is a celebration of owning one 's supposed ' flaws ' and turning them into strengths . Grande 's vocal delivery is as powerful as ever , transitioning effortlessly between velvety verses and a soaring , unapologetic chorus . The phrase " yes , and ? " is an act of defiance in itself . The song 's dynamic beat , lush harmonies , and a sense of theatricality that mirrors the drama of a protagonist 's defining moment are both empowering and infectious . <p> S : ' Rockstar ' by LISA . I 'm not a huge Blackpink fan but this song makes you feel like the main character . <h> TV <h> A TV show that redefined love stories <p> M : Netflix 's Nobody Wants This . The show defied the usual tropes of romantic comedies and refused to be utopic or dramatic , choosing instead to show a very real portrayal of love . The main characters , Joanne ( Kristen Bell ) and Noah Roklov ( Adam Brody ) , go through realistic issues and resolve their problems through communication and confrontation , which is what mature , real love should look like . Both characters were independent and unlike stereotypical rom-coms ( and real life in Pakistan ) did not bind themselves to the traditional timeline of love , which made their relationship more natural . Joanne and Noah were unabashedly and unapologetically themselves , a refreshing departure from being told that love needs one to change themselves . <p> A : I 'd say Bridgerton Season 3 . This season shed its fairytale veneer to introduce the friends-to-lovers trope . Unlike its predecessors , rich in bookish exoticism , it cut down on the romance to build tension and shed light on the courage it takes to be honest . It explored themes of accountability , and personal growth , carving a story that presents love , not as an escape , but as a transformative force . <p> **S : **Queen of Tears . I 'll be the first to admit that many K-dramas are dripping with tropes and often very repetitive , but there was something about this drama that really tugged at the heartstrings . The couple started off seemingly hating each other but by the end , we were all in tears watching how they resolved their issues and reunited . <h> A TV show that made us cry <p> A:Baby Reindeer was without a doubt one of the most powerful shows I watched this year . It left me in tears with its harrowing exploration of trauma and abuse . Episode 4 , in particular , was so dark and disturbingly honest in its depiction of sexual assault that it reopened old wounds for me . What made it even more unsettling was knowing that Richard Gadd , the actor and creator , was reliving his own experiences on screen . <p> S : No TV shows released this year made me cry -- but is that a reflection on my emotional state or the content I watch ? <h> A TV show that started a conversation <p> M:Jafaa . For its representation of domestic violence and highlighting how difficult it is for women to leave abusive partners , even with financial stability . <p> A:The Menendez Brothers . Based on the infamous case of Lyle and Erik Menendez , this show depicted the various alleged instances that led up to the night they murdered their parents . It also highlighted the sensationalism surrounding their trials in 1993 and 1995 , allowing viewers to rethink what they 've come to believe about them . The series became a source of polarising views online , with many justifying what the brothers did because of the abuse they allegedly went through . Kim Kardashian went as far as demanding their freedom . <p> S:Barzakh . The star-studded show definitely started a conversation -- whether that was conversation was good or not is debatable . The show was n't a romance -- which is strange enough for Pakistani television -- and explored the genre of fantasy , something that also is n't seen on Pakistani TV . The show featured themes considered ' provocative ' by some viewers and started a conversation on what kind of content Pakistanis want and need to see . <h> Food <h> The best coffee in Karachi <p> M : Black Honey . <p> A : I do n't do coffee . <p> S : Black Honey , hands down . <h> Food trend that needs to die down <p> M : Coffee shops in Karachi . Listen , I love coffee as much as the next gal but there is now a coffee shop on every corner you turn . Yet , people still flock to their usual spots -- places that actually sell good coffee . We need fewer cafes with mediocre milky coffee and day-old stale croissants . Enough . <p> A : Pistashio in literally EVERYTHING . From pistachio lattes and ice creams to pistachio-flavoured croissants and even cocktails , this trend has reached a saturation point . It 's an overkill . <p> Siham : Every other restaurant in Karachi trying to make their own version of Test Kitchen 's lime chicken sandwich or Xander 's Babar 's Pasta . Please innovate and come up new things . As much as I love these dishes , I do n't want to see versions of them everywhere I go . <h> People <h> A celebrity who won hearts <p> M : Nicola Coughlan . Leave it to the Irish to win everyone 's hearts . The Bridgerton star was consistently vocal about Israel 's atrocities on the Gaza Strip , and was one of the only mainstream celebrities calling for a ceasefire . Coughlan wore the Artists4Ceasfire pin for almost all public outings , from Bridgerton press tours to award shows and most importantly , she raised $2 million for the Palestine Children 's Relief Fund through her social media efforts . <p> Moreover , her performance in Bridgerton season three carried the show as her character transformed from a bumbling shy girl to a confident , empowered woman . Coughlan is also a beacon for body positivity without shoving the narrative down audiences ' throats . She slayed every outfit she wore and was a testament to the fact that skinny is n't the only form of beauty . <p> A : Macklemore . He was the only US artist who put out TWO songs for Palestine this year , speaking truth to power and calling out fellow artists " complicit in their platforms of silence . " The rapper did n't hold back from criticising Meta or politicians like Biden . He also pledged to donate all proceeds from his songs to Palestinian refugees through the UNRWA . <p> S : Nicola Coughlan was a star this year . She starred in a huge Netflix production but did n't let any opportunity go by to talk about Palestine . She wore the Artists4Ceasefire pin everywhere , no matter where she was going and she raised $2 million dollars for Palestine . In a world of celebrities who engage in performative activism , Coughlan put her money where her mouth was and I love her for it . <h> Someone who started important conversations <p> M : Bisan Owda . She won an Emmy , she won a Peabody , and she continues to live through an ongoing genocide . Throughout it , the Palestinian journalist Owda continues to cover what , by all rights , seems like an extermination campaign ceaselessly , posting video updates every few days and shedding light on stories that would have otherwise gone untold without her voice . <p> A : This has to be Bisan Owda . The Palestinian journalist has been at the forefront of reporting from Gaza since Israel launched its assault on the territory last October . She 's been busy bringing stories of Palestinians to the global audience through AJ+ and her 4.8 million Instagram followers . This year , she also won an Emmy Award in the Outstanding Hard News Feature Story and a Peabody Award . <p> S : Motaz Azaiza . The Palestinian photojournalist has used every opportunity and venue available to him to talk about Palestine , the impact of Israel 's assault on his people and their living conditions . <h> A friendship that was everywhere <p> A : Talha Anjum and Umair . These two really popped off this year with numerous collaborations , churning out albums and EPs and emerged as the most streamed artists on Spotify . I guess you could say that theirs was the most productive friendship of the year . <p> M : Badshah and Hania Aamir . The duo made headlines multiple times this year , with rumours swirling that they were dating , however , both maintained that they 're good friends . Badshah and Aamir spoke about each other in multiple interviews , and the actor answered rapid-fire questions about the rapper to near perfection on BBC Asian Network . Soon after , Badshah also appeared on the same show and answered all questions about Aamir correctly . I ca n't help but stan this cross-border friendship ! <p> S : Ariana Grande and Cynthia Erivo holding fingers during the Wicked press tour and the rest of their insane interactions . I do n't even know if they 're actually friends but their interactions have been hilarious . <h> Most over-the-top moment <p> M : Anand Ambani and Radhika Merchant 's wedding . The entire affair was the epitome of extravagance , from performances by Rihanna and Justin Bieber to Mark Zuckerberg , Bill Gates and the entirety of Bollywood attendance . The multi-event spectacle sprawled over months , continents and easily cost billions ( not that Mukesh Ambani has any problems with that ) . The unparalleled opulence makes it one of the most expensive weddings in history , with many criticising the lavish spending as obscene . <p> A : For me , the most over-the-top moment would be Kashif Rana , known by his stage name Chahat Fateh Ali Khan , coming out with his audacious " rendition " of Noor Jehan 's classic , ' Akh Lari Bado Badi ' . It was so funny it made him an overnight sensation , not just in Pakistan , but in India as well . The cover inspired a slew of reels and memes , making Rana unstoppable . <p> S : The most over the top moment of the year for me was Khalil ur Rehman 's over the top explanation for why he went to a woman 's house at 4am after he reported that he had been kidnapped . The writer 's explanation was the strangest thing I 've heard all year . <p> " I am sick and my doctor has strictly told me to not go out in the daytime for five years . Even if he had n't said that , we meet people at night and you do n't differentiate between men and women . When there 's no objection to me meeting men at night , then why should there be an objection to me agreeing to see this woman at the break of dawn ? Because this happened at 4:40am , I had not agreed to go at night when I got the call . For the past 15 days , she was pestering me to see her . " <h> Trends <h> A phrase stuck in our heads <p> A : " Only reason I do n't hold grudges against people is because it affects my skin , " by Shalini Passi -- Iconic . Also , " Wow , what a self-respect ! " <p> M : " Very demure , very mindful " . No explanation needed . <p> S : They 're eating the cats , they 're eating the dogs . <h> Overused meme <p> M : The Hawk Tuah girl . As one X ( formerly Twitter ) user said , " it 's increasingly clear that Ellen DeGeneres was an environmentally significant apex predator in the media ecosystem ; she 'd have extracted all entertainment value from the Hawk Tuah girl in a three-minute segment and banished her back to anonymity . " <p> This is exactly what needs to happen with the meme , it needs to be banished into anonymity , and removed from the minds of the American right-wing , who have ( for some reason ) claimed the girl . Also , it 's just gross . <p> A : The " Good morning pineapple " memes and " I 'm looking for a man in finance . " <p> S : Very demure , very mindful , very overused . Just stop ! <h> Most creative meme <p> M : The cringey motivational reels with iconic dialogues splashed over picturesque scenery and Dramamine by Flawed Mangoes playing in the background . Art . <h> An image that struck our hearts <p> M : Palestinians , young and old , gather to receive food cooked by a charity kitchen , amid the intense Israeli assault , in the northern Gaza Strip , September 11 , 2024 . Photo by Mahmoud Issa for Reuters . <p> The sheer desperation on every person 's face is bone-chilling . Food supplies to Gaza have fallen sharply because Israeli authorities have introduced a new customs rule on some humanitarian aid and are separately scaling down deliveries organized by businesses , Reuters reported . According to the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ( IPC ) , over the coming months 1.95 million people in Gaza ( 91 per cent of the population ) will face acute food insecurity . <p> A : This photo by Abdel Kareem Hana for AP sees relatives and friends gathered around the bodies of five Palestinian journalists who were killed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City at the Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah on December 26 . The journalists have been identified as Fadi Hassouna , Ibrahim al-Sheikh Ali , Mohammed al-Ladah , Faisal Abu al-Qumsan and Ayman al-Jadi . <p> Fifty-four journalists were killed worldwide while carrying out their work or because of their profession in 2024 , a third of them by the Israeli army , according to an annual report by Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) published on Thursday . <p> S : The image that stayed with me is one that is too graphic to include in this list . Instead , I 've included a drawing of it by an artist named Yassin . The image was of a father holding up the body of his beheaded child and was one of the most gruesome and heart-wrenching images I have seen come out of Gaza . <p> Even in drawing form , it makes me uneasy , thinking of the sheer destruction inflicted upon the people of Gaza and the callous dismissal of their pain . <h> Fashion <h> Most unique moment <p> M : Pat McGrath 's porcelain doll-esque beauty look for John Galliano 's Margiela Artisanal show in Paris at the beginning of the year . This pale , overly glossy look was , in the words of Vogue , " a truly immersive , theatrical mise en sc ? ne , it was a snapshot into the artistry and gritty glamour of life in 1930s Paris . " <p> A : Zendaya in archival Mugler for the ' Dune : Part Two ' premiere in London . The actor 's futuristic look included an armour-clad metal bodysuit with sheer panelling , matching metallic heels , with a blue diamond Bulgari necklace -- straight out of 2057 . <p> S : Jahnvi Kapoor in Falguni Shane Peacock at the Ambani wedding . It 's not a high fashion moment , but somehow , it 's better . She was the moment . <h> Bizarre trends <p> A : Exaggerated platform boots . Can we stop with that ? <p> M : Alaia 's ballet flats in fishnet , priced at a staggering $890 . The recent mesh flat shoe trend is not the vibe , I do not need to see your entire foot through a thing net veil ! Shoe choices aside -- I 'm pro-choice ! -- why on earth would anyone pay so much for some fishnet and a sole ? ! <p> S : Blush that makes you look like you have a second degree burn on your face . Blush blindness is real ! <h> A fashion trend that needs to be left in 2024 <p> M : Crocs , especially with fancy outfits or when people dress up their crocs . I never understood the trend -- there are comfy shoes out there that also look good . And now , people like India 's biggest influence Orry are promoting the brand . Let it go , just leave them , there is no way to make Crocs better . <p> S : Apple watches with weddingwear . Please , your Apple watch does n't need to be paired with a sari at a wedding ! <h> Film <h> Best " so bad it 's incredible " movie <p> M:Challengers . What was this movie about ? Tennis ? The unwavering love for tennis ? Love triangles ? Friendship ? All of the above ? Regardless , the movie was pure entertainment and had some excellent cinematography . The plot , however ? Mid . The film takes itself so seriously that it unintentionally feels like a comedy . Worth the watch , but I do n't understand the hype . <p> A : Ranbir Kapoor 's Animal hands down . If I had to rate this movie on its entertainment value I 'd give it a nine . It was just so over-the-top , in a bad way , that it was hilarious . I feel like this film did n't even deserve to be review-bombed because how could anyone take it seriously ? <p> S : Gladiator II . I did n't watch a lot of movies this year , but I have to ask , what was the point of this one ? The story was all over the place , the pacing was weird and the conflicts resolved in such funny ways that I was convinced I fell asleep watching it and missed some of the movie . The part that made it incredible was the inclusion of Paul Mescal and Pedro Pascal . And the sharks in the Colosseum . <h> A movie that made us proud <p> M:The Glassworker . A decade-long labour of love , The Glassworker is arguably the most incredible animation to emerge from Pakistan . Director Usman Riaz 's efforts and hard work were evident in each spectacularly picturesque scene , accompanied by a beautiful score that he helped compose . The film was also selected as Pakistan 's official submission for the 2025 Academy Awards and was longlisted . Despite the movie failing to be shortlisted , it will remain one of the greatest films to come out of Pakistan . <p> A:The Glassworker . Not many Pakistani films have been released this year but this one put Pakistani animation on the world map . As a Studio Ghibli fan , this film had the themes , stylistic choices , and nuances that make an animated feature truly stand out for me.
