<h> ICC 's challenge to the West <p> On November 21 , 2024 , the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , accusing them of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . The warrants , requested by ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan in May 2024 , were issued by the court 's Pre-Trial Chamber I , which found " reasonable grounds " to believe that both officials were responsible for actions leading to starvation and deprivation of essential resources for Gaza 's civilian population . Under the Rome Statute , the ICC 's member countries are obligated to arrest individuals named in such warrants if they enter their territories . <p> SZR : Do you think the International Criminal Court 's move represents a meaningful step towards accountability for war crimes , or is it merely a symbolic gesture unlikely to bring real consequences for Israeli leaders ? <p> HM : These warrants are an incredibly meaningful step , both with respect to the Israel/Palestine conflict in general , and the legitimacy of the International Criminal Court . This is the first time western-allied leaders have been charged with international crimes . <p> The ICC has long been criticised for dealing exclusively with African conflicts or those who are enemies of the west , like Putin . The warrants signal that despite the Israel-led organised campaign of intimidation of Court officials and attempts to discredit the Court , the judges were still able to apply the law to the facts in an impartial way . <p> The cases against Netanyahu and Gallant are a major test for the ICC , and these warrants are just the beginning . Israel will still be able to challenge the jurisdiction and admissibility of the cases , and we should keep a close on eye on these proceedings moving forward . <p> SZR : Since neither Israel nor the United States are members of the ICC , how practical are these arrest warrants to enforce ? What potential avenues might Israel and its allies have to challenge or undermine the court 's jurisdiction ? <p> HM : As we have seen with Omar Al-Bashir , former President of Sudan , leaders wanted by the ICC can evade arrest for many years -- and perhaps indefinitely . The first ICC warrant for Al-Bashir was issued in 2009 , yet he has managed to travel freely to ICC member countries like South Africa , Malawi , Uganda and Jordan . <p> Practically speaking , Netanyahu may find that some ICC members will be unwilling to enforce the warrant against him ; Hungary 's Prime Minister , Viktor Orban , has already signaled that Hungary plans to defy its obligations under the Rome Statute by inviting Netanyahu for a diplomatic visit . <p> We can also expect Israel to continue to challenge the Court 's jurisdiction and the admissibility of these cases . Israel may also argue that Netanyahu enjoys head of state immunity . We can also expect the Trump administration , and also the Biden administration in its last days , to work with Israel to find new ways to undermine the work of the Court , perhaps even threatening to sanction states who cooperate with the work of the Court . <p> SZR : The ICC has no enforcement mechanism of its own and relies on member states to execute arrests . With over 120 member countries obligated to detain Netanyahu and Gallant if they enter their territory , what are the potential consequences if these states fail to comply with the warrants ? <p> HM : The political consequences of an ICC member state refusing to arrest and surrender Netanyahu or Gallant would be different depending on the state involved . For example , the African Union has previously called for states to withdraw from the ICC on the basis that it was unfairly targeting African leaders . It 's possible , though I think unlikely , that we could see something similar from the G7 or other bodies representing western states . <p> Certainly , for states who played a particularly central role in the creation of the court and who carry a significant share of financial contributions to the Court -- like Canada , the United Kingdom , France and Germany -- failure to cooperate would signal a major policy departure and could jeopardise the future of the institution as a whole . Refusal to cooperate with the Court is also a stand-alone international wrong , for which ICC member states could be held accountable either in their diplomatic relations or , perhaps , at the International Court of Justice . <p> SZR : Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the warrants ' absurd and anti-Semitic ' , while President Isaac Herzog said they mark ' a dark day for justice ' and called the court ' a universal laughing stock ' . Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar described the ICC as a ' political tool ' for ' the forces of evil ' , and Minister of National Security Itamar Ben Gvir labeled it ' anti-Semitic from start to finish ' . What 's your response to these accusations ? And if Israel continues to ignore the ICC and the warrants , what consequences could it face ? <p> HM : Israeli leaders and their allies label most opposition to Israel 's crimes in Gaza as anti-Semitic . This accusation is , of course , meant to silence and smear supporting freedom and meaningful self-determination for the Palestinian people . It is not anti-Semitic is to criticise the actions of a state , particularly where that state stands credibly accused of committing atrocity crimes . <p> The consequences of Israel 's continued non-cooperation with and active obstruction of the ICC will be mostly political . It will be up to ICC member states to use these warrants to marginalise and isolate Israel in an effort to get its leaders to change course . The warrants can be used to do this in a variety of ways , including serving as evidence in domestic litigation around aid and military trade with Israel . Because actively supporting Israel 's ongoing criminality could amount to criminal responsibility for other leaders , states now have more reason than ever before to reevaluate their relationship with Israel , including the material and moral support they furnish the state 's current regime . <p> SZR : Pro-Israel advocates argue that the ICC is turning a blind eye to others accused of worse atrocities and that leaders from other nations involved in human rights abuses have not been brought before the ICC . What is your take on these claims of the ICC being selective in its application of justice ? <p> HM : The work of the ICC -- or indeed any court of law -- is necessarily selective , in that focus on one case will mean that other cases will receive less attention or resources . The ICC 's mandate is to both punish " the most serious crimes of concern to the international community as a whole " and also to serve as a court of last resort in this respect . In other words , states bear the primary responsibility for addressing these crimes within their domestic jurisdictions . <p> In the case of Israel , there is no credible argument that Israel is pursuing criminal cases against Netanyahu , Gallant , or others for war crimes and crimes against humanity . In addition , there is ample evidence that the level of criminality on display in Gaza is extraordinary ; for example , UNICEF has long warned that Gaza has become the most dangerous place in the world to be a child , and the IPC ( Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ) says that famine is now imminent , with 1.1 million Palestinians experiencing ' catastrophic ' food insecurity . As the pre-trial chamber of the ICC found , there are reasonable grounds to believe that Israeli leaders have intentionally caused this food insecurity and deprived Palestinians of other necessities of life . The context of the alleged crimes -- the 57-year-long brutal occupation of Palestinian land -- makes the situation ever more urgent for international judicial attention .
