<p> THE world seems more unstable and unpredictable today than at any time since the end of the Cold War . Heightened geopolitical tensions , wars in Ukraine and the Middle East , and uncertainties in the global risk environment make the international outlook a troubled one for the year ahead . <p> The global order has been fragmenting for some time now . Meanwhile , the shift to a more multipolar world is gathering pace , with Western dominance eroding and multilateral institutions coming under greater stress . Middle powers will play a growing role in shaping geopolitics in a landscape of changes in the global balance of power . <p> One of the biggest questions for 2025 is whether president-elect Donald Trump 's second term in office will unleash a more volatile period in global affairs . Some of his policy plans promise to be disruptive for an already disordered world . Among the top geopolitical developments to watch will be how the US under Trump deals with allies , adversaries and competitors . The future course of relations between the US and China will continue to be the most significant strategic dynamic in the year ahead . Given Trump 's unpredictable and mercurial personality , Sino-US relations will either see further escalation in tensions or some kind of grand bargain driven by Trump 's transactional approach . <p> Nevertheless , his threat of imposing higher tariffs on China as well as other countries with a trade surplus with the US , has prompted many experts to warn that a more intense global trade war will be among 2025 's top risks . The London-based risk consultancy firm , Control Risks , predicts that the coming year will establish " national security as the guiding principle of international trade and investment " . <p> How far Washington will go in trade protectionism advocated by Trump will be consequential for Sino-US relations , as well as for the global economy . Major trading partners especially China , are , however , already working on how to Trump-proof their strategies . The Economist , in its annual publication ' The World Ahead in 2025 ' , notes that Chinese firms are already expanding abroad to get around trade barriers as well as to tap new markets in the Global South . An assessment by BlackRock sees acceleration in technology decoupling between the US and China as a high risk . <p> The year ahead will see rising geopolitical tensions , challenges to global economy and tech disruption . <p> 2025 will also determine how wars in Ukraine and the Middle East will play out . Trump 's statements on Ukraine suggesting a radical shift in policy seem to be making European governments nervous . Often claiming he can end the war " in a day " , Trump is expected to push Ukraine into negotiations with Russia . Although he has not offered any concrete plan to end the conflict , Trump may not be averse to a negotiated outcome that advantages Moscow , by which Ukraine has to cede territory . <p> Trump has also repeatedly said he wants to end the war in the Middle East and ensure a ceasefire in Gaza . While he has avoided specifics , this will almost certainly be on Israel 's terms . He has said the US should stay out of Syria , but it is hard to see how it can do that given the complex regional ramifications of regime change there . <p> Democracy will continue to be under challenge across the world . The trends expected to carry over from previous years are not encouraging -- continuing political polarisation in many countries , with politics becoming increasingly fractured and volatile . The erosion or even disappearance of the middle ground and weakening of the political centre seem to have become a worldwide phenomenon . This is closely associated with the rise of right-wing populism , which is continuing to sweep across much of Europe and is evident elsewhere too . <p> Democracy has declined in almost all regions of the world . This global trend of democratic erosion , recorded by many international organisations , is expected to persist , with increasing ' autocratisation ' and backsliding in democratic rights and freedoms . Global think tanks that evaluate the health of democracy in the world are all quite pessimistic about the future . Political systems in general are seen not to be delivering at a time of heightened public expectations , magnified by social media . Some global risk intelligence companies see the risks of civil unrest running high in most regions of the world . <p> One of the top risks in the year ahead identified by the Global Trade Review , an international trade publication , is what it calls " grey zone aggression " , that is " a threat that is difficult to define but critical to recognise " . This includes disinformation campaigns , cyberattacks and proxy wars , all of which it argues " blur the lines between traditional conflict and peacetime operations " . These newer forms of warfare are now omnipresent , challenging states to develop the capacity and imagination to deal with them . There is also the possibility of ' black swan ' events when sudden , unexpected geopolitical developments with far-reaching consequences can transform existing power configurations and create new challenges . <p> Advances in generative artificial intelligence is another trend to watch in 2025 . AI-powered tools in business , workplaces , entertainment , media , healthcare and personal life will become even more common . They have already brought about significant transformations in these areas . But they have also ushered in an era of tech challenges including for cybersecurity . The military uses of AI pose another challenge . <p> The British think tank Chatham House believes action on global AI governance will receive greater attention in the year ahead . It points to the meeting in February of the AI Action Summit in Paris of government representatives , tech companies , scientists and experts to discuss how to evolve ' public interest ' AI . Advanced technology , in addition to AI , has raised vexing questions of how to respond to its disruptive effects and spawning of new vulnerabilities . A digitalised world faces challenges even as it opens new opportunities in different fields including as a pathway to economic and social progress . <p> The coming year will see a world of geopolitical tensions and economic challenges that will test the resilience of nations as well as the international community 's ability to evolve collective responses to common problems .
