<h> A year of stars for Gaza <p> As another year of horrific human culling in Gaza slips imperceptibly into the next , the images that flooded social media during the first quarter of 2024 have trickled to a solitary drip . Where all eyes were focused briefly on explosions in Rafah , all eyes now anticipate a different kind of explosion : fireworks ringing in the new year . <p> The horror , however , remains for those who are still trapped in Gaza , their lives forever marred by violence and loss . Joining the tide of outrage on social media , a large number of international artists risked their careers in 2024 with their pins , posts , songs , and interviews to condemn Israeli genocide . Here are the stars who stood out . <p> Nicola Coughlan <p> This Irish blonde beauty did not just steal hearts in Bridgerton 's Penelope Featherington ; as well as sporting an Artists4Ceasefire badge , she sealed her reputation by openly speaking up for persecuted Palestinians in an interview with Teen Vogue in April . <p> " There 's a huge connection between Ireland and Palestine that maybe a lot of people are n't aware of , and a shared history , " she explained . " To me it always becomes about supporting innocent people . Are we supporting innocent people no matter where they 're from , who they are ? That 's my drive . " <p> Throughout the year , Coughlan actively used her social media presence to draw attention to and raise funds towards the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . She remains unfazed about the prospect of finding difficulty attracting future roles considering her political stance . Carrying the weight of her conscience , Coughlan revealed that what propels her forward is the knowledge that when she is on her deathbed , she can say she used her influence to make a positive impact around the world . <p> " You do get told , ' You wo n't get work ' , ' You wo n't do this , ' " she admitted . " But I also think , deep down , if you know that you 're coming from a place of ' I do n't want any innocent people to suffer , ' then I 'm not worried about people 's reactions . " <p> Bella Hadid <p> It would be impossible to write about artists vocal about Palestinian support without mentioning American-Palestinian supermodel Bella Hadid , whose stance has been well-documented . As part of her ongoing mission to raise awareness , Hadid turned heads during the Cannes Film Festival in May to make a powerful political statement through fashion as she donned a vintage dress reminiscent of the iconic keffiyeh scarf , a symbol of Palestinian solidarity . <p> " While I still have to go to work , even through this horror , to wear our culture makes me a proud Palestinian , and I want the world to continue to see Palestine , wherever we go , " captioned Hadid . " If you do n't know what 's happening right now in Gaza , watch my stories ( and find other accounts leading to Palestinians on the ground ) and please educate yourself on the ongoing occupation and genocide that is happening RIGHT NOW in Gaza . Do not be desensitised to the horror that is being endured by the Palestinian people . " <p> Macklemore <p> If there was ever an anthem for Palestinian support , it would be American rapper Macklemore 's single Hind 's Hall , released in May . The Seattle native uploaded the fiery track to social media , promising that all proceeds from streaming services would go toward the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) , aiding Palestinian refugees . <p> The song 's title came from student protestors at Columbia University , who renamed the residence Hamilton Hall to Hind 's Hall as a tribute to six-year-old Hind Rajab , tragically killed in Gaza by the Israeli forces . A poignant gesture of solidarity with the Palestinian people , the song 's visuals juxtapose footage of police violence against college protestors and deadly explosions in Gaza . <p> Macklemore amplified his efforts with the release of Hind 's Hall 2 in September . As per the rapper 's Instagram handle , Hind 's Hall 2 was produced , written and performed by Arab-American singer Anees Mokhiber , Palestinian rapper MC Abdul , Palestinian-American author and comedian Amer Zahr , and of course , Macklemore himself . <p> Starting with the haunting line " In our lifetime we will be free " , Hind 's Hall 2 relates the ongoing oppression faced by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip at the hands of Israeli forces . Macklemore revealed on Instagram that as with Hind 's Hall , all proceeds from Hind 's Hall 2 will go towards UNRWA . <p> Andrew Garfield <p> Everyone 's favourite Spider-Man validated his celebrity crush status by voicing his stance on Josh Horowitz 's Sad Happy Confused podcast in October . When host Horowitz asked The Amazing Spider-Man star , " Is there anything we need to manifest for you tonight ? " Garfield replied , " We should be putting our energies towards something that actually matters ? maybe the lives of Palestinians in Gaza right now . " <p> Garfield 's words elicited a roar of approval from the crowd as he continued sombrely , " Maybe that 's where we should put our hearts and our energy , and anyone suffering , anyone oppressed , anyone that is suffering under the weight and the horrors of our world right now , anyone who does n't have a choice in living lives of dignity . That 's where our energies should be going right now . " <p> As well as capturing the hearts of the live audience watching the podcast , Garfield 's words resonated with the online community , with fans pledging their admiration for the actor in the comments section of whichever platform the clip was played . <p> " Thank God I did n't have to cancel my celebrity crush , " wrote one fan . " And I love to see that standing up for Palestinians no longer feels as taboo as it once was . " <p> Others who left a mark <p> Others who have been unabashedly pro-Palestine have included Pink Floyd 's Roger Waters , who has been vilified for speaking out in interviews against Israeli forces but remains steadfast in his stance . Rapper Saint Levant , whose real name is Marwan Abdelhamid , has paid homage to his Palestinian roots by announcing the release of his second album , Deira , in honour of a now-demolished hotel of the same name in Gaza . R&amp;B singer Kehlani donned a keffiyeh at one of her concerts in July , as prominent a symbol of Palestinian solidarity as any . Hulk actor Mark Ruffalo and comedian Ramy Youssef , along with over 700 SAG-AFTRA signatories , signed an open letter demanding protection from blacklisting for their pro-Palestine stance amidst the ongoing Israel-Gaza conflict . The letter also called for a permanent ceasefire and condemned violence against journalists . <p> It will be harrowing to see how long these stars will have to speak out against Israeli atrocities , but judging by how the year unfolded , their support looks to continue in 2025.
