<p> IT 'S not difficult to suppose that prisoners also celebrate the New Year , including those on death row . With the advent of the means to annihilate all life on planet Earth , the entire human race has been put on death row . It seems we are all on death row , like inmates living on borrowed time , and without being given a fair trial . <p> I have been riveted to daily discussions involving well-informed ex-CIA analysts , senior military personnel who retired after serving US interventions across the world and highly respected American academics . <p> These discussants keep an equal distance from Joe Biden and Donald Trump , analysing 2024 , and looking forward to the post-Jan 20 , 2025 , world . <p> Their discussions on the global tensions point to the death sentence many in the world dread but which most are not even aware of , and a large number are not interested in knowing about . It 's fraught and could be carried out any time . The West , in their view , is in an economic and political mess and itching for a fight with Russia , China and their allies . <p> What happens when the bomb explodes ? If you 're in the vicinity , you 'll not live to know . <p> The West 's growing team of opponents , on the other hand , have an economic agenda that questions the hegemony of the greenback . The American discussants see the Ukraine war as an outcome of US provocations , the threat to take Nato to Russia 's borders . A slight misjudgement or even an eerily suicidal resolve could trigger a nuclear apocalypse . Gaza is the other trigger as Israel seeks to move on from the massacres to the virgin Syrian turf . <p> It has prompted Iran and Saudi Arabia to go into a huddle . A behind-the-scenes factor overrides these and similar possibilities . Indications are that a vicious conflict is likelier to break out to thwart the rise of BRICS . The ruse would come from Ukraine , Gaza , Iran , Syria , and Israel , principally . <p> China , with a significant interest in a peaceful world in which it could ply the Belt and Road trade , is seen as the least likely to want war . But it would respond to provocations with full force of its astounding military capabilities if it came to that . That 's what leading American analysts believe . <p> Israel , particularly Netanyahu 's Israel , has emerged as having a devious interest in triggering a catastrophe , and it cares little if it sets off a nuclear disaster . <p> It is pining to attack Iran , underplaying the imminent response with Iran 's conventional capabilities that could destroy the Zionist state . Israel is known to have the US carte blanche to do as it pleases . <p> In which case , Vladimir Putin is not likely to merely look on . Russia 's newly minted nuclear-capable hypersonic Oreshnik missile is supposed to have the speed and force to destroy most of Europe with chilling ease . <p> Nato retribution would be equally swift and devastating , which would leave a few pleased individuals in the nuclear bunkers in Washington , D.C. The neocons , according to the analysts , had shaped the Biden administration 's rapacious support for the massacres in Ukraine and the Middle East . They look primed to have the ear of Donald Trump . <p> Scott Ritter , respected former military damage assessor , has been canvassing support against nuclear adventurism by the US . He met Congressmen and wondered if they saw Russia 's new threat with the Oreshnik missile as a bluff . The Congressmen told him the CIA assessed it as not a bluff , but the mainstream media masked it with half-truths . Joe Biden , principally the neocon cabal around him , was ready for nuclear war with Russia . <p> The Congressmen were alarmed that Biden would consider such a step without consulting them . Everything is up in the air . Small mercies that nuclear-armed India and Pakistan do not figure high in the list of the terrifying prospects . <p> With Narendra Modi in the saddle though it 's difficult to predict what he would not do to remain in power . North Korea expectedly is in the heart of the bleak scenario . <p> To the discussants , it seemed the annihilation was set for 2024 . The idea was to provoke Putin before Trump took over . But we survived it . Or have we ? <p> The fear spurred me to reach for Annie Jacobsen 's chilling and acclaimed new book tersely called Nuclear War : a Scenario . It probes the prospects of nuclear exchange and the prohibitive consequences it entails for human beings . <p> In her scenario , the disarray at the hub of decision-making was telling , with literally six minutes for the US president to respond to an assumed North Korean nuclear missile heading towards the US homeland . <p> Based on interviews with former dramatis personae that handled Doomsday triggers , Jacobsen 's inputs came from " presidential advisers , cabinet ministers , nuclear weapons engineers , scientists , soldiers , airmen , special operators , Secret Service , emergency management experts , intelligence analysts , civil servants , and others who have worked in these scenarios over decades " . <p> What happens when the bomb explodes ? If you 're in the vicinity , you 'll not live to know . The likely chance is you would vaporise in a fraction of a second . <p> " A 1-megaton thermonuclear weapon detonation begins with a flash of light and heat so tremendous it is impossible for the human mind to comprehend , " says Jacobsen . <p> " One hundred and eighty million degrees Fahrenheit is four or five times hotter than the temperature that occurs at the centre of the Earth 's sun . " In the first millisecond after the bomb strikes the Pentagon , according to the author 's scenario , there is light . <p> The light superheats the surrounding air to millions of degrees , creating a massive firestorm that expands at millions of miles per hour . Assuming the North Korean missile hits the Pentagon , " everything inside its 6.5 million square feet of office space explodes into superheated dust from the initial flash of light and heat , all the walls shattering with the near-simultaneous arrival of the shockwave , all 27,000 employees perishing instantly . " It 's immaterial if we 're in prison or out . We 're all on death row .
