<p> Jakarta , Aug 24 : Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas ' adviser on international relations and his special envoy , Riyad al-Maliki , told Sputnik that the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) should issue arrest warrants against all Israeli officials involved in the alleged crimes against the Palestinian people committed since last October . On May 20 , ICC prosecutor Karim Khan filed arrest warrant requests for top Israeli officials , including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , as well as for several senior Hamas officials . " I do believe that each and every Israeli official , who has contributed to crimes being committed against the Palestinian people , being a judge , being a minister , being a parliamentarian , being a politician , being member of parliament , being , you know , military or belong to security apparatus or whatever , you know , all of them , they have contributed in their own ways to such crimes that were committed against the Palestinian people . So I 'm not really sparing anyone . I believe that all of them are . All of them are responsible , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " al-Maliki said in an interview . The envoy said that the ICC had documented such statements from Israeli officials who " dehumanized " the Palestinian people and could issue more arrest warrants , adding that such a scenario was unlikely , however . " I believe that the ICC has been following , observing , you know , monitoring and documenting such statements coming from such Israeli officials . And I believe that they can always start with the first list , and then they could move to the second , third and continue until putting in prison all these Israeli officials who dared to dehumanize the Palestinians and calling for the death of the Palestinian people , " al-Maliki added . In December 2023 , South Africa filed a lawsuit accusing Israel of genocidal intent in Gaza with the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in response to a rising civilian death toll in the besieged Palestinian enclave . In January , the ICJ ruled provisional measures ordering Israel to take urgent steps to prevent acts of genocide and ensure the flow of humanitarian aid to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not order an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . In early March , the African nation went back to the ICJ to call for additional provisional measures against Israel that would address widespread starvation among Palestinians in the Gaza Strip . ( UNI )
