<h> 3 days 640 000 children 1.3M doses . The plan to vaccinate Gaza 's young against polio <p> PTI Updated : August 31 , 2024 21:28 IST <p> Jerusalem , Aug 31 ( AP ) The UN health agency and partners are launching a campaign starting Sunday to vaccinate 640,000 Palestinian children in Gaza against polio , an ambitious effort amid a devastating war that has destroyed the territory 's healthcare system . The campaign comes after the first polio case was reported in Gaza in 25 years -- a 10-month-old boy , now paralyzed in the leg . The World Health Organization says the presence of a paralysis case indicates there could be hundreds more who have been infected but are n't showing symptoms . Most people who have polio do not experience symptoms , and those who do usually recover in a week or so . But there is no cure , and when polio causes paralysis it is usually permanent . If the paralysis affects breathing muscles , the disease can be fatal . The vaccination effort will not be easy : Gaza 's roads are largely destroyed , its hospitals badly damaged and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has reached an agreement with Israel for limited pauses in the fighting to allow for the vaccination campaign to take place . Even so , such a large-scale campaign will pose major difficulties in a territory blanketed in rubble , where 90% of Palestinians are displaced . On Saturday , Gaza 's Health Ministry announced a soft start to the vaccination campaign , with a small number of children receiving doses in the southern city of Khan Younis . How long will it take ? The three-day vaccination campaign in central Gaza will begin Sunday , during a " humanitarian pause " lasting from 6 a.m. until 3 p.m. , and another day can be added if needed , said Dr. Rik Peeperkorn , WHO 's representative in the Palestinian territories . In coordination with Israeli authorities , the effort will then move to southern Gaza and northern Gaza during similar pauses , he said during a news conference by video from Deir al-Balah in central Gaza . Who will receive the vaccine ? The vaccination campaign targets 640,000 children under 10 , according to WHO . Each child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rounds , the second to be administered four weeks after the first . Where are the vaccination sites ? The vaccination sites span Gaza , both inside and outside Israeli evacuation zones , from Rafah in the south to the northern reaches of the territory . The Gaza Health Ministry released a list of roughly 160 sites across the territory -- including medical centers , hospitals and schools -- where the vaccinations will take place . Most of the sites are in Khan Younis and Deir al-Balah , where the population density of children under 10 is the highest . Where are the vaccines now ? Around 1.3 million doses of the vaccine traveled through the Kerem Shalom checkpoint and are currently being held in " cold-chain storage " in a warehouse in Deir al-Balah . That means the warehouse is able to maintain the correct temperature so the vaccines do not lose their potency . Another shipment of 400,000 doses is set to be delivered to Gaza soon . The vaccines will be trucked to distribution sites by a team of over 2,000 medical volunteers , said Ammar Ammar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Mounting any sort of campaign that requires traversing the Gaza Strip and interacting with its medical system is bound to pose difficulties . The U.N . estimates that approximately 65% of the total road network in Gaza has been damaged . Nineteen of the strip 's 36 hospitals are out of service . The north of the territory is cut off from the south , and travel between the two areas has been challenging throughout the war because of Israeli military operations . Aid groups have had to suspend trips due to security concerns , after convoys were targeted by the Israeli military . Peeperkorn said Friday that WHO can not do house-to-house vaccinations in Gaza , as they have in other polio campaigns . When asked about the viability of the effort , Peeperkorn said WHO thinks " it is feasible if all the pieces of the puzzle are in place . " How many doses do children need and what happens if they miss a dose ? The WHO says children typically need about three to four doses of oral polio vaccine -- two drops per dose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't receive all of the doses , they are vulnerable to infection . Doctors have previously found that children who are malnourished or who have other illnesses might need more than 10 doses of the oral polio vaccine to be fully protected . Are there side effects ? Yes , but they are very rare . Billions of doses of the oral vaccine have been given to children worldwide and it is safe and effective . But in about 1 in 2.7 million doses , the live virus in the vaccine can paralyze the child who receives the drops . How did this outbreak in Gaza start ? The polio virus that triggered this latest outbreak is a mutated virus from an oral polio vaccine . The oral polio vaccine contains weakened live virus and in very rare cases , that virus is shed by those who are vaccinated and can evolve into a new form capable of starting new epidemics . ( AP ) AMS <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
