<h> Main navigation <h> Breadcrumb <p> Hierarchies of Solidarity : A conversation between Sinthujan Varatharajah and Hebh Jamal <h> Hierarchies of Solidarity : A conversation between Sinthujan Varatharajah and Hebh Jamal <p> Mar 26 , 2025 <p> In a wide-ranging and reflective online discussion , Eelam Tamil writer and researcher Sinthujan Varatharajah joined Palestinian journalist Hebh Jamal to explore the politics of international solidarity , hierarchies of attention , and the contradictions faced by oppressed peoples organising for liberation . <p> The event , titled " Hierarchies of Solidarity " , drew on themes from the book co-authored by Varatharajah and Moshtari Hilal . <p> Opening the conversation , Jamal spoke candidly about feeling " provoked " by critiques of solidarity frameworks that seemed to position causes in competition , saying , " I felt like I just could n't understand ... why is this always a competition ? " Reflecting on her experience in the Palestinian solidarity movement , she added , " All of this solidarity exists , right ? But it does n't produce any material changes . The Palestinians are still dying in the tens of thousands . " <p> Varatharajah responded by noting that such discomfort is common but essential . " There is a bit of a romanticisation of solidarity that is very current as well as widespread , " they said , particularly from the perspective of being an Eelam Tamil . " It always felt a little bit cynical , and also maybe frustrating and aggravating ... how much disregard there has been in regards to our own issue , and then how much potential there was also in regards to how people were able to mobilise for other issues . " <p> The conversation moved toward a deeper interrogation of how solidarity is understood and practised -- especially among communities who themselves are targets of colonial violence . <p> Jamal reflected on the burden of expectation and recalled a time when a Sudanese activist asked her about speaking about Sudan . " I was frustrated ... because I did n't understand why he expected me to be a poster person for all of these different groups . " She posed a critical question : " Whose responsibility is it to understand a struggle or liberation movement ? And how does that translate into a responsibility to act ? " <p> " If you come from a struggle and from a specific kind of history of violence , I feel like there is a different subjectivity you 're faced with , " noted Varatharajah . They advocated for forms of solidarity that are specific , listening-based , and grounded in the real needs of those most affected : " If concerned people ask us to amplify their voices , that 's a very straightforward kind of ask . " <p> Both speakers grappled with the danger of reducing solidarity to a reflection of one 's own identity . " I feel like this is just a trap , " Jamal said . " Once we start to only view it as a mirroring of ourselves , I could never actually truly understand other people , other struggles . " Varatharajah agreed , cautioning against flattening complex realities into metaphor for the entire world . " We should be able to speak about something that has nothing to do with us , but is in contradiction with our values . " <p> One of the most pointed critiques addressed the popular phrase " Palestine frees us all . " Varatharajah took issue with how such slogans recentre Palestine as the universal metaphor , saying , " It creates a centre ... and renders other oppressions as a side effect ... an appendix of that one conversation . " Jamal reflected that while the sentiment may resonate in certain geopolitical contexts , " it is actually very Western . " <p> Their discussion also turned toward how liberation struggles speak to the world . Jamal noted , " The Palestinian people ... have developed a diaspora that speaks to the international community . " She asked how the Tamil struggle translates itself to a global audience . <p> Varatharajah responded that while every movement speaks to the world , " the way their calls resonate is different . " They pointed to how the Sri Lankan state , a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement , has weaponised Global South rhetoric to delegitimise the Tamil cause . " For us , and maybe also for the Kurdish movement , the West sometimes plays a different role , " they said . <p> The conversation revisited the importance of clear political alignment , with both participants agreeing on the necessity of principled positions . <p> " Personally , I like stances , " said Varatharajah . " I think it 's the more principled way of doing politics . When I think about resistance movements globally , a lot of them push out statements of solidarity . These are also rejections of someone else 's politics . They 're aligning with something while rejecting something else . That creates value , clarity , and stance to a specific principle . " <p> Jamal shared how difficult it can be to navigate that clarity in practice , highlighting how when she spoke on Kurdistan , it " isolates a majority of the people in my community " who were Turkish . <p> On the question of whether solidarity is transactional , Varatharajah offered a firm defence of reciprocity . " It 's like with friendships . If you do n't invest equally , you 'll see an outcome that might not be what you envisioned . " They rejected the idea that mutual support devalues solidarity . " Whenever people ask for something in return , it 's often dismissed as transactional . I have an issue with that , because in our everyday relationships , we 'd never think of an act of giving and receiving as bad . We 'd think it 's equitable , respectful , common-sense behavior . " <p> " That 's how we live , day to day , without necessarily thinking of it as political ... If you break it down to this banal level , it makes sense . So , it should also make sense on a meta level . " <p> In one of the more personal moments during the discussion , Varatharajah reflected on growing up in a refugee camp in Germany . They described how Tamil families , displaced and isolated , created systems of mutual care with others in the camp - from cooking and cleaning schedules to shared transport for medical visits . " These are , in many ways , the core of what it means to be in relationship with each other , " they said . " Solidarity is a relationship . From an individual to another , but also from collectives to other collectives and groups . " <p> Jamal shared her own upbringing in New York and her journey toward political consciousness . " I 've figured out what it means to be Palestinian entirely on my own , " she said . " Through this rejection of gratitude toward the state , I learned about what it means to be Palestinian . " <p> Both speakers reflected on the emotional difficulty of reconciling intergenerational experiences of trauma , displacement , and political silence . <p> The conversation also touched on power -- and limits -- of witnessing . Varatharajah recounted the horror of 2009 , when the Sri Lankan military massacred over 100,000 Tamils in Mullivaikkal . " At the end of it , the state still held on to its rhetoric of having said it killed no civilians ... That creates a margin of 167,000 people who are just erased , " they said . " One of the saddest parts in our history is that so much suffering has happened , and yet we still have to explain it to people . " <p> Ultimately , both speakers called for a solidarity grounded in specificity , humility , and listening . <p> Varatharajah stated , <p> " In that sense , I kind of feel like listening to people , encountering concerned people , actually allowing them to speak . To be patient , to be open to the critique that they make , the frustrations that they voice . And then to amplify it . And then to also display that type of act of witnessing , act of responding and not just muting yourself . " <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : My name is Sinthujan Varatharajah . I 'm based in Berlin . I 'm a writer and researcher , and I mostly focus on issues of statelessness , immobilities , mobilities , as well as displacement in my writing . <p> Hebh Jamal : And my name is Hebh Jamal . I 'm a Palestinian journalist . I 'm originally from New York -- well , originally , I am originally from Palestine , in the village of Jimzu that was ethnically cleansed in ' 48 . But I grew up in New York City and moved to Mannheim , Germany , in 2020 . So , I 've been here for a few years . <p> I want to start off this conversation by telling you , and also the audience , after you very much kindly sent me your book , and I read it , the very first time I was witnessing your conversations around concepts of solidarity , I always felt sort of provoked . <p> I always felt like , I just could n't understand . At the time , I considered it like " oppression Olympics " , right ? Like , why is this just always a competition ? " <p> And then I was frustrated also because I initially look at this so-called international solidarity with the Palestine movement , and something that I 've had a lot of trouble with is all of this solidarity exists , right ? But it does n't produce any material changes . Palestinians are still dying in the tens of thousands . <p> So , how do you reconcile with that , I guess ? With my initial reaction -- it has changed , and I want to talk about how this has changed for me . But yeah , I just want to hear your initial thoughts about that . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Thank you . I think it 's a very common reaction that people feel provoked as well as maybe outraged , and will very quickly frame any type of critique towards the dynamics of solidarity internationally as a form of oppression Olympics or competition that is being drawn or kind of , like , pointed to . <p> But generally , I feel like there is a bit of a romanticization of solidarity that is very current as well as very widespread . I think amongst many people , that is something I feel quite , yeah , uncomfortable with . Specifically , also speaking from the point of view and the kind of community that I come from . <p> So just as a context , I am Eelam Tamil , which means my parents also arrived as refugees . I was born in a refugee camp . We 've lived here for the last 40 years , and we are still struggling and fighting for our independence , as well as justice and accountability , in regards to the so-called Sri Lankan state . <p> And having kind of experienced and grown up in this community , and having seen also the ways in which we 've been rendered quite invisible and kind of pushed into this side conversation or into a drawer that is ' of the forgotten people , ' it always felt a little bit cynical and also maybe frustrating and aggravating -- I think personally , but I think also collectively for a lot of Eelam Tamil people -- to watch how much disregard there has been in regards to our own issue , and then how much potential there was also in regards to how people were able to mobilize for other issues . <p> To me , I think these conversations often are domesticated , right ? So they 're kind of held in private , and people kind of vent out their anger in private , but very few people actually take it to a more public realm because of fears of precisely those kinds of reactions and accusations . <p> And I think as a way of collectivizing and as a way of kind of , like , challenging , as well as encouraging and creating discursive engagement , I think it is critical and important for us to really take these conversations into the public , even though they are uncomfortable . <p> But I think their discomfort is a productive space to start from . <p> Hebh Jamal : I could tell you about my initial reaction , right ? <p> The reason why I felt this was so important was because I have been confronted with the concept of responsibility multiple times . So , I have been confronted , you know , when I was in college , the very first time by a Sudanese brother , who , you know , was frustrated -- why I never spoke about Sudan , or why I never spoke up for Sudan , or , you know , beyond the Facebook comments or initial tweets or whatever . <p> And I was frustrated at him , because I did n't understand why he expected me to , you know , be a poster person for all of these different groups . <p> But this goes into another question for me , which is whose responsibility is it to understand a struggle or a movement or a liberation movement ? <p> And then , how does that translate into a responsibility to act ? <p> But , let 's say if I did speak up , right ? Let 's say I wanted to speak about Sudan in a productive way , or in a way that , you know , takes center stage for me , like I do for Palestine . <p> Ca n't that also be sort of speaking over people who are Sudanese , people who have the legitimacy in these conversations ? <p> How do you reconcile with pursuing knowledge and trying to understand these different conflicts , different liberation circles ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I mean , we live in a time , right , where social media is prone to be one of the primary ways of how we express ourselves , as well as how we perform ourselves , right ? <p> And also , like , how expressions of solidarity are oftentimes communicated , which means that a lot of times people kind of interrogate as well as monitor our online activities , as well as the focus and also the blind spots that we implicitly produce . <p> And I think , specifically , if you come directly from a struggle , right ? And I think it 's a very specific positionality -- if you come from a struggle and from a specific history of violence , I feel like there is a different subjectivity that you 're faced with , which renders you or pushes you into a specific position , where I feel that 's a different interrogation than , say , for example , an ally -- someone who is not directly concerned , but who is kind of interested and also active in mobilizing and counteracting violence towards a certain group , right ? <p> And I think , for you , as a Palestinian , for instance , I think , I find it difficult to directly critique you in your own focus on your own history , as well as your own people 's struggle for self-determination , independence , the end of apartheid , the end of occupation , and so on and so forth . <p> But I do think , amongst all of us , right -- like , we 've met here as a Palestinian as well as an Eelam Tamil -- so we 're both directly from histories of colonization and oppression . <p> I feel like , um , there is a need for us to converse and to kind of get in direct interaction , as well as conversation , to also measure out the amount of solidarity and the type of solidarity we need . <p> So I feel like , when people ask something of us , I think it 's okay to ask back " What do you need from me ? " Because if solidarity is a practice , and I feel like because we produce these flat-out responses , we think that solidarity is a practice that needs to be equal to every single thing . But every single issue requires specific types of actions and specific types of responses . And these responses need to be on pair as well as in conversation with those most concerned , right ? <p> So if concerned people ask us to amplify their voices , that 's a very straightforward ask , right ? And that means that we do n't necessarily need to put our own analysis on top of their posts . We can just share them and amplify them and kind of give them the platform and counteract measures of censorship and other things . <p> But then if people , for instance , invite you to a demonstration and then ask you to take a role on a stage and make a speech or something , then I think , of course , there 's -- there needs to be a negotiation , even within yourself and also the kind of representation that you take and how much you want to speak . <p> I think the act of overwriting mostly happens when we employ our own analysis -- when outsiders employ their own analysis of a situation and then also sometimes distort and override concerned people 's own critical sense of reflection and way of mirroring their own realities . <p> Hebh Jamal : Okay , I completely understand you . But here 's the thing that , I also have a lot of struggle with . <p> Because , on one hand , I try to always connect the Palestinian struggle with other struggles . I try to , for example , with the occupation of Kashmir , I try to look at the similarities between India and Israel , look at the connections and all of this stuff . <p> But my question is , " Is that actually reductive ? " <p> To constantly view other liberation struggles and other histories of people , only in how it relates to yourself ? Because , for example , I know that there 's a lot of similarities between us two , right ? But I have never actually been in encounter with another Eelam Tamil person besides you . I never knew about the genocide until I came in contact with you and other activists . <p> And so , my question is , I feel like this is just a trap . <p> I feel like once we start to only view it as a mirroring of ourselves , I could never actually truly understand other people , other struggles , and fight for them in a way that is just powerful . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I totally agree . I think it 's a very intuitive kind of bodily reaction that we try to understand others through our own bodies . Which means that we try to kind of create bridges , but of course , there are limits to it . <p> Because it also disallows you from seeing the differences and the specificities . It creates a kind of reductive frame , because it constantly kind of also reinforces yourself in that story . <p> Whereas , we should actually , like , reach a point where we take a distance and are able to speak about something that has nothing to do with us , but is just in contradiction with our values . <p> And I feel like a lot of times , in regards to solidarity in practice , a lot of people really embody solidarity . So they think about the fact that , " Oh , they have children , " therefore , " other children suffering is something horrible . " But , for instance , I do n't have children , and I think children suffering is horrible too . I do n't need to necessarily articulate it through my childlessness or my children . <p> This type of correlation as well as drawing parallels is a very kind of , like , widespread pattern . And I do n't even think it 's bad , because I think it has potential . Especially in order to draw attention to the systemic nature of how imperial and colonial forms of violence are interrelated . <p> But I feel like the discussion needs to go beyond that . <p> For instance , in regards to Kashmir and Palestine , people always like to draw attention to the fact that Kashmiris were shaped by Palestinians , from the Intifada , throwing stones , and everything . Then suddenly , how Kashmiris were doing the same towards the occupying Indian army . <p> And that is true , you know , because I think we should also acknowledge the fact that people see , learn , and kind of apply certain learnings in their realities . But we ca n't reduce it to that single conversation . <p> Because even though Israel and India are politically collaborating , and are also relating a lot of their measures of violence towards each colonized people , there are still specificities that do n't necessarily correlate and that are very unique to that single situation . <p> For instance , when I always think about the occupation in Palestine , I need to translate our occupation , it does n't really work that way . <p> If I for instance took you to Eelam , and show you the kind of way of how occupation works for us , you would see a lot of differences . And I think there is a qualitative difference that makes specific realities quite unique . <p> It is not that I 'm trying to say , " What is happening to this group is worse than what is happening to the other . " But I think we should be able to also speak about these differences and how these differences create specific types of realities . <p> Like , for instance , the fact that Palestinians are divided between three different territories in historic Palestine . And then , divided all across the world as refugees . These are very specific realities that do n't necessarily apply to other populations , like Darfurians or West Cameroonians or others . <p> These differences , to me , are very important to kind of also stay true to that one specific history . <p> And I think we have this urge to constantly speak globally without speaking locally . I think it 's actually much more productive to speak in a locally adjusted and embedded way . <p> Which means that when I speak about Palestine , I want to speak about Palestine . I do n't want to speak about Tamil Eelam for instance . And then , when I speak about Kashmir , I do n't want to speak about Rohingyas , I speak about Kashmir . <p> That 's what I 'm trying to practice . But I feel like , a lot of times , how people kind of receive it and what people take away from it is something different . <p> Hebh Jamal : Right . I mean , but it kind of goes back to this concept . <p> You have this major issue in your book . And it 's the phrase , " Palestine frees us all . " Or something along those lines . <p> First of all , it 's just not true . Like , we always say it -- " Yeah , Palestine frees us all , and when Palestine 's free , we 're all free . " <p> And of course , I understand where it comes from . I understand the sentiment , especially in the geopolitical sense , when it concerns , the Arab and Middle Eastern world because nearly every country is run by a dictator . But , I want more of your reaction to why you vehemently dislike this phrase . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I mean , it would be nice if that was real , you know ? Like , I would not oppose it . <p> But the fact is that it 's an abstraction and it also creates a center . To me , it 's a very colonial , imperial logic . Because it centers certain oppressions and kind of also renders other oppressions as a side effect into side conversations that are only linked as an appendix of that one conversation . <p> And it also does injustice towards Palestinians because it kind of abstracts Palestinians from their own very land-based issue . It renders Palestine into a metaphor for the world , which it 's not . Because it 's a very real struggle . And it 's a very real suffering that is very localized . <p> These phrases are like rhetorical tools that are quite easily deployed as a way to shorten some kind of thought processes and some kind of conversations . Whilst their intentions , I think , are right and good , I think the reality is so far apart from it . <p> And it actually does , in many ways , create harm . Because it also allows people to focus on Palestine as a reference point , to focus on every other oppressed and colonized people . And in doing that , I think we are really creating a center and a periphery . And that is not the logic of any anti-colonial struggle , right ? <p> Hebh Jamal : Yeah , so this is what I think about this . I constantly ask myself ( the ) question , and by the way , this is something that Zionists and imperialists always specifically ask , " Oh , why do n't you fight for all of these other things ? " And , you know , I actually take that question seriously . <p> I ask myself , " What is it about Palestine that acts so universal to a lot of these activists ? Why is it the major issue on university campuses ? Why are the students fighting so much for it ? " <p> And I think it 's because Palestine - this is my analysis - but I 'd love to hear also what you think . <p> I feel like Palestine is the most active decolonization struggle happening right now . It 's the most visible and ongoing form of colonial violence where all of the textbook villains are participating in it . <p> Not just that . Not only are they participating - not only Germany , Britain , France all of the caricature colonialists - but also , they 're implementing it inward . <p> So , in Germany , we feel this huge repression if we talk about this one thing . Which makes us want to talk about it more . The more you resist , the more someone tries to punch you down , the more you want to talk about something . <p> And in the United States , it 's taken now such a huge effort to silence and to criminalize and to detain and abduct people for not wanting to be complicit in the crimes against Palestinians . <p> So , I think that 's where it comes from . <p> Like for me , " Oh , you know , if Palestine is free , we 're all free " , it 's actually a very Western concept . Because in a way , in some instances , if Palestine is free , then some people are free to protest in the United States . Some people have more freedom of speech in Germany . <p> Right ? Like , " Complete the sentence . " So it could be , in my opinion , true in some cases . <p> I mean , Lebanon would also have a sense of freedom and sovereignty if Palestine was free . And also Syria , and also other countries . <p> I think the reason why it 's become such a universal thing is because of how much the caricature colonialists have embodied the Israeli colonial project . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I mean , I agree . Palestine would n't have the focus was it not about Israel , right ? <p> I feel like Palestine is central because of Israel , not because of Palestine . <p> And in the same way , I feel when people always say , " Palestine is complicated , " you know , I think it 's the opposite . It 's actually one of the least complicated issues . Which makes it also so easy to tap into . Because it 's also an issue that everyone has an opinion about . Even the most remotely placed , apolitical person will have an opinion about it , a feeling about it . <p> Whereas in regards to other issues , they wo n't have a feeling . And I think a lot of it also has to do with the fact that it 's an old-fashioned type of colonialism . <p> In the way that you have a majority European population against an Indigenous population . And setups like that create also a framework to understand and to also react toward it , that is maybe much more easier to handle . Because they also push us back to the history of Algeria . They push us back to all kinds of previous colonial histories from the 20th century and the 21st century . <p> And that allows a lot of people to read it in a way quite differently than , let 's say , a project of colonization where the colonizer and the colonized do n't look so different . And where they both previously were colonized by Europeans , and then one of them became a colonizer in the tradition of Europeans . And that is oftentimes what creates this overwhelmedness because people can not draw that distinction between who is colonized and who is the colonizer . <p> And that pushes a lot of people into a maybe more familiar form of activism . I would n't say easier , but maybe a type of activism that is much easier to the eye . And a type of reaction that conforms with the way we learned about European colonization . <p> Because I feel like , in many ways , this is like many other projects , it 's an unfinished project of decolonization . And also a product , of course , of that process . <p> In that way , I feel like a lot of people are better equipped to respond to it than , say , to speak about Ethiopia . Or any other country that colonizes internally and where you have to kind of read more , but also be much more sensitive to your visual perception . <p> Hebh Jamal : My question is , and maybe this is even colonial in its articulation , but I 'm just going to ask it anyway for the sake of it . <p> The Palestinian people , and the South African people , have developed a lot of time in speaking to the international community . But also , in terms of just how they have developed a diaspora , that in itself maybe has something to do with it . <p> But the language in which Palestinian resistance has formulated is that it speaks to the international world and tells them what to do to combat Israeli colonialism . <p> And I could be totally ignorant of this , but how does this all translate , for example , to the Tamil struggle ? When a people 's movement is giving direct asks to the international community , they pretty much laid it out for the world to just sort of do . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I feel like the Palestinian position is quite specific and unique in the sense that Palestine has a recognized non-recognized state , in the sense that Palestine has an official representation at the UN . <p> It has certain types of access to institutions , which other struggles really lack . Which means that their way of accessing the so-called world stage is quite different . It goes through backchannels , it goes through solidarity movements , and through other kinds of stakeholders . <p> But I think every movement addresses the world . I just feel like the ways of how far their calls resonate are different . In regard to South Africa and Palestine , I mean , these are all settler-colonial European projects . In that sense they also respond in that very historical manner of how we think about a European body in a very specific geography and what kind of issues that has in regards to Indigenous populations . <p> But , for instance , like , for us , as Eelam Tamils , we struggle a lot with the so-called Global South . Because the Global South has completely sided with the Sri Lankan state . And the Sri Lankan state has employed and really weaponized this Global South rhetoric , as well as anti-imperial rhetoric , ss a way to delegitimize the Tamil struggle as an external force that is in the interest of the empires . <p> In these regards , there is a much more , cynical as well as sinister way of how rhetoric that might work in regards to Palestine and South Africa does not work in the case of a country like Sri Lanka . Where the state has also been at the forefront of the Non-Aligned Movement , right ? <p> It was one of the founding states , that was also part of the very core members , with Nasser and all these other people , who were running that show . So they are very equipped . <p> Years ago , I used to be active in lobbying and everything at the UN level . And one of the biggest issues that we had was actually lobbying Global Southern states , countries like Algeria , like Cuba , which are historically always considered as allies for instance to Palestine , to South Africa , and other places and struggles . That have been vehemently opposing for instance us , because they have completely bought into as well as sided with the rhetoric as well as the political framing that Sri Lanka has employed . And also exploited , you know ? <p> So for us , and I think maybe that 's similar to the Kurdish movement that in many ways , like , these rhetorics , like , the West for instance , has a very specific , maybe different role sometimes . Where oftentimes , we have sometimes better relationships even with a country like the UK , which is our former colonizer , than , for instance , with Thailand . <p> And that creates , maybe globally speaking , skewed conversations . But I think in their own reality , they are coherent still . <p> Hebh Jamal : The very reason I texted you saying we need to have a discussion is because I watched the , just part of interview between Mehdi Hasan and the leader of Sri Lanka , or as you say so-called Sri Lanka , and I was like ... it was deja vu . <p> It was just like , " What is happening ? " Like , I was so angry at that type of non-response , of the gaslighting and the justification for genocidal crimes . <p> What I did n't know , however , is , you know , Sri Lanka 's positioning within the Global South . I want to ask you just the foundational question of solidarity . You use in your book , you use the phrase of " Palestine-washing " , and you used Morocco as an example . <p> And I think it was absolutely spot on . <p> You said the Moroccan team , they put the Palestinian flags , they garnered international support . Palestinians themselves were very excited . But the major issue is they were n't lobbying their government and protesting the actual relations between Israel and Morocco . That was a clear example of what you call " Palestine-washing " . I do n't even know if I have a question for this . It 's just outrageous to me . And I want to pinpoint and just talk about " What is true solidarity ? " . <p> I have had such a hard time trying to answer this question . I know it 's a big one , but I would like to sort of reach something by the end of this conversation , as you try masterfully in your book as well . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Thank you . I mean , I do n't think there 's an all-out answer . I feel like there is no universal response to something like solidarity . I think we need to consider solidarity always as a response to a lack of something or a collapse of something . <p> Therefore , that kind of deficit or absence of something needs to be responded to , or is asked to be responded to by others . And that means that it needs to be very specific . And specific issues need specific responses . Therefore , I do n't think there is a clear answer to that . Except for the fact that I think one of the things that I find very meaningful and very important is the act of witnessing and acknowledging someone 's suffering . <p> That is maybe a very important way of acting . Because it also speaks to our lack of power to actually change these realities . One of the things that a lot of , like , violated people are frustrated about iIs the fact that their suffering is n't reaching , or does n't matter . <p> As much as we can not change a lot of the policies that , for instance , governments design at the expense of colonized populations , I think there 's something about the act of rendering someone visible . It sounds very superficial , but in the sense that acknowledging someone 's living , but also suffering and dying . <p> And that is , I think , an elemental part that is oftentimes banalized . <p> In 2009 , when the genocide was going on in Eelam , for instance . It was one of the worst things that we experienced . We lost 170,000 people within a span of five to nine months . And the fact that at the end of it , the state still held on to its rhetoric of having said , " It killed no civilians . " <p> Then , secondly , it also kept on kind of diminishing the numbers reducing them to 2,000 , 3,000 , or something . Which creates kind of like a margin of 167,000 people . <p> The question that I was oftentimes concerned and distraught with was , " What is it when 167,000 people just become a statistical number ? " . That can be erased . That can be negotiated . That can be questioned in its very existence . <p> What does that mean in regards to our lives , to our deaths ? <p> One of the things that I find , from a Tamil perspective , one of the saddest parts in our history , was the fact that so much suffering has happened , and yet we still have to explain it to people . As if it was n't real . And as if it was n't something that should have reached them in other ways . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : In that sense , I kind of feel like listening to people , encountering concerned people , actually allowing them to speak , to be patient , to be open to the critique that they make , the frustrations that they voice . And then to amplify it . And then to also display that type of act of witnessing , act of responding and not just muting yourself and kind of becoming ... what 's the word ? Like , so passive . You know ? <p> But I do n't know . I feel like every situation really requires specific types of responses . <p> I can only speak from my own kind of frustrations and my own reaction , I would have at that moment because we were very similar to Palestinians today . <p> We were , for months , on the streets . We dropped out of universities . We were just constantly occupying spaces . But people were still asking us , " What 's going on ? " <p> Even though all our banners - they were not very vague . They were very graphic . They had images , they had slogans . They spoke to the violence . But people still did n't recognize the fact that this was real . <p> And this kind of feeling that a lot of violence creates , that we 're not real , is something that I feel like is something that we can practically combat , even as outsiders of that history . <p> Hebh Jamal : I mean , I 'm not even sure how to follow up on that . One of the things that was very prominent for me in your book was when you spoke about your time in the refugee camps . <p> I would love if you sort of spoke about it to the participants . <p> I really would love if you spoke about this feeling of what your consciousness of solidarity meant while you were in these refugee camps , which , I believe you describe as the fundamental part of your understanding of it . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I like to think about solidarity less from a meta level than , from a micro level and how we practice solidarity in our day-to-day . <p> And how it 's not necessarily always framed or understood as something political , even though it 's something deeply political . I think it 's a consciousness that we develop . <p> In the book I talk about the years that we spent in refugee camps . <p> I grew up in a refugee camp . I was born in one . I lived for the first seven years in one . <p> If you 're not familiar with Germany , Germany has this very old system of refugee camps , which are dispersed all across the country . They 're mostly in rural areas . And then they 're very commonly at the very periphery , in very kind of isolated areas . Cut off from infrastructure , cut off from society , which renders them into very isolated spaces . <p> So , we grew up in these spaces . And these spaces , in many ways , they kind of create their own economy as well as force you into an enactment of a collective kind of existence . Where different people , kind of , encounter each other , from different parts of the world . Different struggles , different histories who are then forced into this very small space . And very dehumanizing space . Then have to kind of manage that space . <p> When I was thinking about the refugee camp , I always thought about the kind of , like , the politics of the space . The spatial politics . The architecture . And in how many ways the architecture is designed to create discomfort . To create pain . To continue the suffering of the detained population . <p> But refugees , of course , in many ways , also counteract that . For instance , in organizing the space . In decorating the space . In creating ways of actually making it a liveable space . And their existence in the camp turning into something that 's worthwhile . <p> Because the state constantly keeps telling you that you 're a disposable population . " Therefore , you are in a refugee camp . " But refugees themselves often times invert that interpretation by giving themselves meaning and value . <p> Hebh Jamal : That 's something that really stood out to me in your book . <p> Like , this idea that even within these extreme conditions there 's a way of creating community . <p> That 's so essential to how we think about solidarity because it 's something that is built and practiced , right ? Not just declared . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Yeah , and to me , some of the things that I really found quite striking , as well as something that really shaped me , was the ways of how we organized our food plans , our cooking plans , our cleaning plans . As well as how we organized , for instance , going to the doctors . Because the doctors were miles away . So , we had to get a car . No one had licenses . No one had a car , of course . <p> So you had to interact with different people and then coordinate to meet your everyday needs . <p> And these are , in many ways the core of what it means to be in relationship with each other . Because I think solidarity is a relationship . From an individual to another , but also from collectives to other collectives and groups . And in that way , it kind of broke it down to a very micro level . Where you were faced with a very violent reality and everyone was trying to navigate that . Then making the best out of it through the numbers and the abilities of each of them . <p> And that , to me was something that really shaped also my understanding of how we interact with each other . I think I 'm generally , like , less concerned with online expressions of solidarity . Even though , of course , this book that we wrote is very much concerned about online expression and social media critique . <p> I am much more interested in how , in our everyday , how we deal with each other . <p> I feel like we live in this kind of weird time where people have these very reductive ways of speaking about not showing gratitude , for instance . <p> Of course , it 's always framed . The German state , for instance , asks foreigners to be grateful for being taken up in this country . Or being given a stay or something . <p> And a lot of people in our generation , they reject that . Which I completely understand . But then , when I look at my parents ' generation , I see the opposite . Like , they actually express that gratitude oftentimes . <p> That gratitude is oftentimes directly linked to their own frame of reference which is the violence of the states that they fled from . <p> So , even though this state is also violent , their sense of relating and measuring that violence is based on their reference points <p> I always think about everyday interactions . Say you walk on the street , and someone attacks you or something . And someone else comes to help you . <p> Of course , you 'll say thank you to that person . You wo n't say , " Um , yes , you did what you should have done . " And in that everyday interaction , I kind of feel like it kind of speaks also to a kind of global way of how we could relate to each other in a much more , I do n't know if empathetic is the word that I would use , but I think in a much more genuine and acknowledging way . <p> Like , for instance , when you invited me , Hebh , and you said thank you , I always said , like , " Do n't say thank you . " But I would say thank you too , you know ? Because I think there 's a courtesy and a respectfulness and an acknowledgment of the act of actually making an effort . <p> I would never take that effort for granted . And I think , to me , that is something that I hold dear and want to maintain as a core of how I interact with people . <p> Hebh Jamal : I feel like we 're very different people . <p> I do n't express gratitude often . I 'm usually not that grateful . And maybe this sort of becomes , like , my refusal to accept my situation . <p> You were talking about your parents and I immediately felt heard . That was my parents too . I mean , my parents never wanted me to be an activist . My first introduction to activism or solidarity work was actually tackling school segregation in New York City . <p> I was at a public high school in New York City . I was one of the only Muslims . And it was a majority white public school . And right behind my high school , there was a housing project for Black kids that could n't get into the high school because of how competitive it was . <p> Immediately , my parents ' initial reactions were , " Why are you doing this ? " " Why are you causing a problem ? " " Why are you going to this protest ? " <p> And it was very frustrating . I 've developed this concept of lacking gratitude because I 'm always angry and frustrated over the situation . Mostly because I 've never got to learn about what it means to be a Palestinian person and what exactly I missed out on . And what my children are missing out on . <p> Even the conversation for today , it was very hard to get in the mind space of trying to have this talk . It felt like being a Palestinian is all-encompassing and traumatic in all of its sense . <p> My point is that I 've figured out what it means to be Palestinian entirely on my own . <p> It was because of my parents ' sort of -- this gratitude that you mentioned , towards the state . I rejected that . And through this rejection , I learned about what it means to be Palestinian . <p> " Why is it that I was even living in New York City ? " " Why is it that I 'm currently now in Germany ? " <p> And my husband , who spent his childhood in Gaza , his family is being slaughtered as we speak . It 's through this rejection of gratitude . <p> And of course , it 's not about an interpersonal level , it 's about the space that goes beyond just the personal . <p> I know our realities are very different because you grew up in a refugee camp , you spent time in a refugee camp . But the access to knowledge , and when your grandparents or parents tell you about the repression and persecution they faced , <p> How does that couple with this feeling any sort of gratitude ? <p> They 're not supposed to be in this foreign land to begin with . I think I do n't feel gratitude towards Germany . But I think I 've gone through that trajectory of rejecting my parents ' reaction , and also policing my parents and telling them off for not feeling grateful differently , you know ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : But I 've also become more understanding , because I also understand that there 's a difference between their positionality and mine . And there 's a comfort and a privilege in mine that they do n't share . So in that sense I 've become more soft , maybe , on them . Even though I do n't agree , but I understand . <p> Hebh Jamal : Is there a privilege though ? Is there really ? <p> Because part of it is , you , of course , react and build , be in spaces that are towing the line of what 's respectable to a state . <p> But as we both know , when we try to speak in a liberatory sense for all , that is n't a very acceptable approach to state hegemony . <p> So are you privileged in that sense ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I think I 'm privileged in relation to Eelam Tamils who are back home . And I think that is the relationship that I look at . <p> I 'm not comparing myself to -- I do n't know , Germans or others who live here . But I 'm specifically speaking about that relationship . Of what it means to live outside of that occupying force and outside of the violence of our immediate occupier . <p> And of course , here we are also subject to many related forms of violence . But I still see that there 's a qualitative difference which allows me to also develop in a way that 's so different . <p> Personally , my parents did not raise me politically . My parents did not introduce me to our struggle . My parents were very conscious about separating us from the struggle . <p> And they always made a point by saying that " Our suffering will end with us . " <p> And " You are here . " <p> " This is a new life we 've given you . Be happy . " " And make the most out of it . " " Do n't get into trouble . " " Do n't critique too much . " " Do n't be too loud . " " Do n't give yourself a name . " <p> But of course , that 's not how life works . And that 's also not how families work . <p> Oftentimes , the ways of how our parents would do it was whenever they would watch the news and stuff , they would push us away or put us into our rooms , and keep us away from any types of interaction . <p> So , my own knowledge was very superficial . I knew we were persecuted . I knew our people were killed . I knew our people were fleeing . And I knew that the state was causing us trouble . But there was nothing beyond that . And I think only , like , in my teenage years , I started to also become more interested and intrigued . <p> Specifically , I was frustrated with my own ignorance , because I was quite early very much , a news person . As a child , I would be obsessed with watching the news , learning about all kinds of issues and stuff . But I would give very little time and effort into understanding and reading our own history . <p> When the tsunami in 2004 happened , and more than 35,000 people died on the island - the majority in Eelam - and the state was limiting relief to go into Eelam . They were monopolizing it and sending it toward Sinhala people in the South , I was dragged into relief work . You know , like , networks and everything . That 's the first time when I kind of became a little bit outraged about myself and my ignorance , and also frustrated with my own parents . Because I started blaming them for having artificially kept me away and denied me part of my history . <p> That to me has become a learning that I Individually also went about and read and learned . Which I 'm still grateful for , and not necessarily through just my parents , because I could also critically interrogate my parents ' understandings and political analysis of things . <p> Hebh Jamal : How did you personally navigate the traps of , figuring things out only through a Western or European source ? Because , I mean , even if we do search on the internet we have this knowledge base that is still very , very biased . Our search engines , our access to resources , our abilities to understand , in many ways a lot of it is also just oral histories too . <p> How did you go about your understanding of your struggle but also of other struggles ? <p> How did you become a person who understands how important it is to have solidarity with different struggles ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I think when I started to become politicized there was already a little bit of an infrastructure of knowledge . There were a couple of websites , so this was in the period of the so-called ceasefire in the early 2000s , where some of the websites were already , historicizing and archiving a lot of our histories . <p> Like TamilNet , Sangam , these kinds of websites . So I was mostly learning through them and reading historical kind of facts and information through them . <p> But also , when I moved to London after I finished my A-levels here , I quickly got in touch with a lot of Tamil organizations . <p> There 's the Tamil Information Centre in the UK , and all of them they have also a lot of archival materials . And you quickly get into more community-based kind of history writings . <p> I think something that we lack , that , for instance , Palestinians have , is we do n't have many outside commentators who write books about us . Which also means that they 're more difficult to find . Also , when you want to read them in imperial languages , European ones . <p> But it also , maybe frees you from a lot of the garbage and the shitty takes that outsiders may have on your own struggle . So in that sense it allowed me to be more precise in my reading but to also isolate a lot of the readings that might distract . <p> But even to me , I had a bit of a learning . I used to have more liberal kind of stance , you know ? Where I was also quite critical of the resistance . And I was , a little bit at odds with some of the policies -- which I still am . But there were certain acts of the state that pushed me into a much more radical position where I was able to kind of reposition also my own stance on things . <p> And in regards to other struggles , I do n't know if it 's like a side effect . <p> The fact that Tamils and the Eelam Tamil struggle has never been centered on a global stage also forces you to become more knowledgeable of other things , and other struggles . <p> It does n't allow you to sit in a place of comfort , in the sense that you can sit with your own history , and that will be considered to be legitimate or sufficient enough to speak about the world . <p> I could never say something about Tamil Eelam that would be , like , rendered into a universal kind of reality that everyone would be able to respond to . <p> I would have to create bridges , kind of like parallels . I would have to dig out histories that might be more easily digestible for outsiders that then kind of bring us back or allow us to go back to Eelam . <p> And I think this type of sidelining and invisibilizing of our struggle also made me maybe a better reader and forced me into becoming a more cognizant and a more observant person who is also interested in other struggles , maybe as a strategy also to reinforce and re-amplify our own struggle . <p> I feel like the more central your struggle is , maybe , in Western international spaces , the less you 're kind of forced , I think , oftentimes as a by-effect , to also read into other struggles . Because other struggles will move towards you more likely than you have to move towards them . <p> And this act of us having to move towards others For instance , look into the liberation movement 's kind of historical publications and everything , they will always make references to the Namibian struggle , to the Palestinian struggle , the Kurdish struggle , the Eritrean struggle , and so on and so forth . <p> This type of strategy to force yourself into the global stage by pushing yourself , almost latching on to other struggles , is something I think is the result of us being in a very specific kind of peripheral geography . <p> Hebh Jamal : So , Sinthujan , I have to say , I very much appreciate your pursuit and how you definitely went about it . I feel like people can take it individually , but let 's switch to the collective . <p> Because something that I 've always just been vehemently angry about is the concept of solidarity and how it translates . I 'm particularly angry at how it has translated from the Muslim community . I personally find it disgusting , and how they 've not collectively -- just not shown up in an institutional and collective way within Germany . <p> I have two questions about this . <p> One : How do we move beyond the individual ? I see a couple questions here that want to move away from the emotional , the consciousness . Okay , let 's say we have all of this . Let 's say we understand solidarity , injustice . How do we become a collective ? <p> Two : Do you think that I 'm seeing solidarity from the Muslim community in a wrong way that actually is n't helpful to the Palestinian movement ? I tend to look at things through a spiritual lens . I believe in divine rage , and I believe in divine justice , and I think that if anyone has any sort of semblance to that , they should stand up for the Palestinian people . But I would like to hear your critique on that understanding . <p> So that 's two questions for you . 1 . How do we move from the individual to the collective ? 2 . What 's your take on Muslims in Germany ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : People always use the phrase , " We need to organize . " I think it 's the right response , but the question I have is : what do you mean ? Because it 's so easily said but so difficult to translate into actual action . <p> Hebh Jamal : It does n't mean anything anymore . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Exactly . What I 've found helpful is to actually seek out groups that are already organized , or to found your own groups , and to step into actions that are responding to a local reality -- say in Mannheim or Berlin -- and then connect with other existing groups to create a more national network . <p> That 's a more helpful way to take it to another level . Also , all of us have different skills . Knowing our own skills , we can offer them to other groups that already exist -- our ability to speak , to write , to enhance things , to edit , to produce posters , to provide technical equipment for protests . These are very hands-on and can be done if we move away from a passive , observing stage into a more active response . <p> In regards to the Muslim community , the German context is very specific . A lot of the anti-racist movements that existed in the 2010s were very idle toward the question of Palestine , and very silent , which I think deserves more critique . I do n't think it receives enough critique because it actually is a complete failure -- and a complete collapse of that kind of shallow politics that has nationalized issues . <p> A lot of anti-racist movements , even the anti-Islamophobia and anti-Muslim racism movements in Germany , have isolated themselves to a national reality . They 've only responded to Germany as its own social and political entity , but never dared to turn it into a more global response . <p> I see the frustration as well , and I 'm not even Palestinian or Muslim , and I 'm frustrated . It 's an utter failure that speaks to the fact that a lot of people have been very comfortable . There 's been a co-option of critique through the state -- through diversity and anti-racism programs -- and that allowed people to build careers with state funding . A lot of people are more comfortable continuing that relationship with the state than actually being in opposition . <p> Hebh Jamal : They 're now learning that does n't work anymore . It does n't protect them anymore . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : But I think many people will speak up and stand up until they lose something . That 's the reality for the majority of people . Then they domesticate their frustration . They do n't voice it in the moments or toward the people they should because they 're trying to preserve a certain kind of comfort . <p> Maybe because I 've never thought of the Palestinian struggle as a Muslim struggle , I do n't come from that reality . For me , it 's always been an anti-colonial struggle . I 've always related to it as such . <p> That 's maybe the more realistic takeaway . The Muslim world will only respond to a certain degree . <p> Hebh Jamal : Well , there 's no such thing as " the Muslim world " anyway . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : When we think about how the UAE is dealing with Israel , how Morocco is dealing with Israel , Sudan , Egypt -- you see how these notions have been instrumentalized . <p> When Palestinians speak on different media channels , one of the first things many of them say is their frustration toward the Muslim and Arab world . That 's a disappointment toward a false narrative that had created a sense of closeness which is now showing its limits and artificiality . <p> The frustration should be there . But it is maybe useful to collaborate more with groups and people who do n't only frame themselves through these notions , but through very material anti-colonial struggles . These struggles are autonomous from religious affiliation , from cultural notions . <p> When we break it down to the core , I can be in solidarity with Palestinians without being from any Abrahamic faith . That 's not the point . The point is that my values -- believing in anti-colonialism -- push me to support people who may have nothing in common with me . <p> That brings us back to the point you started with . People often want to see themselves in other struggles . From my Muslim friends -- non-Palestinian Muslim friends -- I 've always had this frustration that they did n't even see Palestinians anymore . They saw themselves . Palestine becomes an abstraction for Muslim subjectivity . The same way the Rohingya at some point became an abstraction for the Muslim ummah . <p> That 's a false and lethal conclusion . It denies Palestinian plurality . It denies Palestinian materiality , which is not only religious . <p> Hebh Jamal : Of course . And it sort of infantilizes the Palestinian people , where all of these different groups think they 're seeing their humanity . In reality , they are projecting their own belief systems , ideologies , and acting on what they see fit in order to fight for the Palestinian people . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : But that was also a strategy . When we think about how Israel hollowed out the PLO and how that reframed the Palestinian struggle in the recent decades -- there was a strategy to shift the framework . <p> And I feel like a lot of times , a lot of our adversaries are very keen on moving away from traditional anti-colonial rhetoric and imagery , in order to create more mismatched interpretations of the issues , which makes it more difficult to respond . <p> Hebh Jamal : I want to get to the crux of the issue here for me . One of the major things is connecting with different groups on the ground , organizing together as a collective -- not individually . That 's something I very much agree with . <p> Something I vehemently oppose is acting as if Palestine is unique , or other liberation struggles are unique in one way . The type and process of dehumanization that occurs against the Palestinian people occurred against the Tamil people , is happening in Sudan right now . It 's very much a universal process . And Germans act like they invented it . <p> So I want to ask you about the problems that come up when you try to organize with different groups . You talk about this at the beginning of your book . You go to a Palestine protest and you see different types of people get into confrontations if they see a Kurdish flag , or if a Turkish person sees a Kurdish flag , or if a Sahrawi person sees a Moroccan flag , or if a pro-regime Syrian sees the Free Syrian flag . <p> I ca n't tell you how many times I 've had to navigate trying not to get it wrong and trying to see everyone 's perspective . But at the end of the day , there is an oppressed and there is an oppressor . Maybe that 's reductive to say , but I want to get your reaction to this . <p> Because this is a major issue in the pro-Palestinian scene in Berlin , but also across the world . Sinthujan Varatharajah : I think because Palestine has become such an abstract , it 's not necessarily about the political demands and reality anymore . A lot of oppressors also identify with Palestine . They 're outraged about the genocide in Gaza , but at the same time cheering for the bombing of Rojava , for example . <p> These types of clashes maybe happen more often around the Palestinian issue . One of the solutions in Berlin was to prohibit other flags . <p> Hebh Jamal : We did something similar in Frankfurt and in Mannheim . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I think it 's useful . What is that flag doing there anyway ? You do n't need to express solidarity through other flags . There 's a nationalizing of solidarity that I find cringey sometimes . <p> Generally , this may be specific to the Palestinian cause , that so many other people read and identify with it . <p> Hebh Jamal : So there needs to be a mediator between all these different groups . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : A protest is an open space , and you ca n't manage or gatekeep it . For organizers , it 's practically difficult . But it 's also a constructive form of coming together . It shows the reality we face in imperial centers . It 's not just one group -- it 's many groups . They share space , they collide . The question becomes , how do we deal with the rupture that happens between them ? <p> People say , " This problem is now distracting from the actual core of why we 're here . " That may be true . <p> Hebh Jamal : There is a hierarchy then . We 're prioritizing Palestine over a confrontation that is dehumanizing someone , whichever direction it 's coming from . <p> This is my major issue . Do I now , as a group , need to be taking stances on what 's going on in Syria , in Kurdistan , in all of these different conflicts , in order to be principled ? Or is it counterintuitive ? <p> Is it impossible for a collective group to make those decisions ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Personally , I like stances . I think it 's the more principled way of doing politics . When I think about resistance movements globally , a lot of them push out statements of solidarity . These are also rejections of someone else 's politics . <p> I would wish more groups to make statements . I 've thought about coming together as a new Tamil collective , making more proactive responses to issues -- to create a guideline . <p> Because we often wait for someone else to do it . And only when someone else does it do we feel encouraged to follow . But there needs to be someone to start and put out a clear point . You need someone to lead the way . <p> Hebh Jamal : Then my question to you is about the process of reciprocity . <p> Let 's say we 're organizing as a collective . <p> I 'm really trying to actively decentre Palestine but it keeps coming back because it is all encompassing right now . But let 's say organising as a collective . How important is reciprocity ? <p> It goes back to the major question that you address in your book about whether solidarity is transactional . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I think reciprocity is at the core of relationships . It 's like with friendships -- if you do n't invest equally in a friendship , you will see an outcome may not be what you envisioned . <p> When a more powerful group or individual meets a less powerful one , reciprocity will look different than when people are in a more equitable position . <p> Whenever people ask for something in return , it 's often dismissed as transactional . I have an issue with that , because in our everyday relationships , we 'd never think of an act of giving and receiving as bad . We 'd think it 's equitable , respectful , common-sense behavior . <p> That 's how we live , day to day , without necessarily thinking of it as political . <p> To me , it 's a very biological reaction to a social grouping . It 's not a contradiction to extend that to how different groups relate to each other . <p> If someone is helpful to me , I wo n't forget that . And in a moment of need , I 'll return that help -- not because I think they expect it , but because it 's the right thing to do . To be there for each other in times of need . <p> If you break it down to this banal level , it makes sense . So it should also make sense on a meta level . If a group stood up and voiced their opposition to what is happening to another group , I feel like if that other group also needs your help we should enact that . <p> We should n't reduce that to " they are meant to do that . " If they were " meant to , " so are we . <p> It 's a social relationship , and it 's built on mutual recognition . Sharing is not negative . <p> When people frame it as transactional , it often means they 're disrespectful with equity . If you meet each other at an eye-level that is art of a dignified and self-respectful presence . <p> Hebh Jamal : My gut reaction is always to take a stand and to have politically relevant alliances . <p> But I 'm also a very non-confrontational person . I know it does n't seem like it because I 'm always loud and calling things out -- but I really struggle when someone does n't like me . I want to resolve it . <p> So when someone community members do n't want you to tow a specific line . I live in Mannheim . It 's predominantly Turkish . There are barely any other ethnic groups here . <p> So when I take a stand on Kurdistan , that isolates the majority of people in my community . No one will show up . And that 's the moment where you realize : solidarity was transactional , it 's only when it matched their agenda . From a practical ( perspective ) , when you need results now -- because there 's a genocide happening -- it 's a scary thing to confront your whole community . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Then my question is : is that a community worth holding on to ? Are those people worth being in community with ? If people do n't follow principled stances , I do n't want to be in community with them . I do n't want them to have a say in our issue . I do n't think they 're genuine or fair-minded people . <p> When we think about injustice on a micro level it 's very difficult to deny injustice . <p> You need to have some mental acts to deny and unsee someone else . <p> If you are able to deny someone facing similar realities to you then of course that person also has the ability to deny you if that person feels that way at a certain point . <p> Hebh Jamal : Which is what has happened . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : It is very sinister type of reality . <p> Palestinians and Kurds in Germany have to navigate this often . Germany has very specific demographics that create a very specific political relationship . <p> For instance , there are almost no Sinhalese people in this country , so we do n't face similar issues than say Palestinians or Kurds . We have a very different kind of way of also enacting ourselves and claiming public spaces . <p> When you go to a Kurdish protest in Berlin , it 's not necessarily the police that you 're fearing but it 's Turkish people who are attacking you , throwing Grey Wolf signs , and all kinds of violence . <p> That 's a very a specific reality that is embedded in a context . For Palestinians Germany is a very toxic hostile landscape . <p> A lot of the measures are European . But I think the German social dynamics also feed into it to create a toxicity that is very specific . It needs to be addressed in a very specific way . <p> Hebh Jamal : So someone wrote to me , which I think is interesting . They said , " You 're a Palestinian , it 's normal for you to center Palestine ? " <p> I 've always said that Palestine is not a unique situation . I always say this . <p> What 's happening to us , the genocide that 's taking place , has taken place elsewhere . <p> But to fully understand how it has taken place elsewhere , and to try to delve yourself into true solidarity , I think it 's to first take a step back from your own reality . <p> And I think this is why I opened up the question with , is it really solidarity if you view something only in how it relates to you ? If you 're holding up a mirror ? When you see your own humanity , is that when you step in ? <p> That 's sort of the whole point of this conversation . To move away from that version of solidarity and to entirely place yourself into the realities of someone else . <p> So that 's why I wanted to decenter myself and Palestine -- just for a second . <p> Because again , as I said , Palestine , for me , is all-encompassing . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Yeah . I try to do the same . I also try to . Because oftentimes you see people sneakily also push through their own agenda , through the back door . When they try to show solidarity . <p> And I find it a bit phony . It 's not the moment . I think there 's also something called common sense , where you also think about when something is more important . <p> And I think there are critical times too , right ? There are critical times to say certain things . And not all times are the same . If something is so immediate , I think it 's completely justified to push your attention toward that one thing . <p> Your reality now as a Palestinian -- thinking about what 's happening in Gaza and the West Bank -- it 's very much where we were 15 years ago . <p> And in that sense , I 'm pretty sure the majority of Tamil people were also not able to think about anything but what was happening to them . <p> So I think there 's also a biological reality we need to consider . And to be fair to ourselves . <p> Hebh Jamal : This is too much information -- But I broke out in hives today over stress . <p> I could n't even continue fasting today . Just from the sheer horror that 's -- that 's truly taking place . So I very much resonate with this inability to separate yourself from what 's going on . <p> So there 's an interesting question from the audience here : <p> " I wonder whether this conversation would go differently if we looked at the issue of hierarchies in solidarity from the perspective of collective organizing , in the relationships between resistance groups and different struggles -- which are often exercised outside the public sphere , based more on modes of collaboration -- and are historically much more material . I wonder whether this would change how we frame it ? " <p> What do you think about that ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : <p> I 'm not sure it would look that different . <p> There have , of course , always been historical relationships between different resistance groups and organizing collectives -- that were not necessarily public or framed for visibility the way things are now on social media . But I still think that in terms of resources , directionality , and response , they followed similar patterns to the hierarchies we see today . <p> For instance -- when I think about Bangladesh . Bangladeshis always frame their solidarity with Palestine by referencing their fighters who joined the PLO , who shot down Israeli jets . <p> And these are real histories . They 're not fantasies . <p> But I do n't see it the other way around . <p> When the student revolution happened in Bangladesh last year , there were very few people referring to it from the other around . That type of directionalilty is real . <p> I can find multiple statements by Tamil groups referring to the liberation of Palestine , but I would have a harder time to find similar statements from Palestinian groups towards Tamil Eelam . <p> And that 's not to dismiss their politics or the legitimacy of their struggle -- but it shows that material reality and historic reality and dynamics that continue . These dynamics should be interrogated without necessarily considering them attacks . <p> Hebh Jamal : I could 100% guarantee that majority of Palestinians have just no idea what 's going on in other parts of the world . I think you 're entirely correct and I find it completely admirable and enlightening . I have what the Tamil Tigers wrote to the Palestinian people and to be able to in the midst of all your traumatising moments , I felt takes a lot . <p> So I want to talk about social media . For me , social media has been a blessing and such a huge curse . Through social media , I 've met wonderful people -- like yourself . <p> So how do you view this day and age of navigating collective organizing work through such a toxic but also productive space ? <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I 'm neither a tech pessimist nor an optimist . I try to be realistic . <p> Of course , there are a lot of disadvantages , but there are also a lot of advantages . <p> Specifically for displaced and stateless people . Our ability to navigate that space , but also our dependency on that space is very different from other groups . <p> The way a lot of us are interconnected through social media is maybe -- some would say -- not healthy . But it 's a response to the fact that we do n't share the same analog space . We are dependent on these kinds of connections . <p> Navigating them is difficult . There 's a lot of criticism of social media anyway . But one thing I found really interesting is how Palestinians , throughout the genocide , were using Instagram . <p> How people were sharing accounts in very ad hoc ways of responding to censorship , to internet blackouts . People were doing collective shared posts . Journalists who were died had already handed over their passwords and other people would continue with the same kind of follower accounts . <p> And these very practical ways of putting out information , I think they 're critical . <p> In many ways , social media specifically in Palestine is counteracting the traditional media monopoly . It confronts different realities in a way that 's so powerful . <p> And I think credit needs to be given to how people have weaponized social media back to fit their own realities . Despite still facing criminalization that happens on social media <p> Hebh Jamal : <p> I mean , the Egyptian revolution had a lot of potential and the spirit of the Arab Spring -- It was called the WhatsApp Revolution . It was through social media . <p> But I 'm talking more about us . Here in the West , in the diaspora in places where we 've just solely relied on social media in order to organize or to be a part of collective . I find a very huge problem with this . <p> There 's this saying : " Socialism failed because it took up too many meetings . " <p> And I always find that funny but also true . <p> Because the true work , the concept of what you 're talking about - true solidarity , is when you 're in a room with people . Social media just does does n't create that space necessary to change . <p> To push the boundaries of what social change could look like . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : Ideally , of course , being in the physical presence of someone is much more conducive to building relationships that are sustainable and resilient . <p> When we look at movements like Palestine or the Sahrawi camps in Algeria , solidarity tourism for instance is propagated . <p> People are invited to come , to meet the realities , to witness . I find these measures much more fruitful and much more sustainable in the long run . <p> But even within a country , like Germany . <p> Through its asylum system has dispersed people all over the country -- strategically , politically . There are many centres for many people , but not once core . Like in Paris in France or for the UK , London . <p> In that sense a lot of the organizing depends on these networks . For instance when ' Palestine Speaks ' starts organising in Berlin and then suddenly how it nationalised . <p> All of this is also dependent on social media . <p> Ideally , it would be much more conducive conversation if we could see each other . <p> It also makes it mor difficult to deny each other 's existence and feelings and responses towards an issue . Here is the next section of the transcript , where the conversation shifts into questions of nationalism , statehood , and the contradictions embedded in anti-colonial movements . As always , it 's been transcribed with care for accuracy , tone , and speaker intent -- with unnecessary filler removed , but full meaning preserved . <p> Hebh Jamal : So I want to talk about nationalism , because this is a big question for me . <p> We 're always taught to be against the concept of severe nationalism -- right ? <p> We 're taught that in its core nationalism , is not a good thing . it leads to populism , to dehumanizing others . But a lot of these liberation struggles are nationalist struggles . <p> So my question is : Is there a hypocrisy or contradiction in that ? When they say Palestine is a national struggle , the fundamental thing for Palestinians is they want to return home . For me I do n't really care if it 's a state or has borders , I just want to be in my home and not bothered . <p> But when Kurds , or different ethnic groups , want a state . I 've always had this contradiction because if everyone wants t is state , then it does n't feel like a revolutionary liberation struggle . <p> It just feels like were state building . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : I think it 's a trap of colonial modernity that our response to the issue is to try and replicate the issue and find a solution within that system . <p> Colonial modernity also disallows us from finding different solutions to something like a collective and land relationships . <p> In many ways our resistance movements are also responses in these modern ways of nation-building , and anti-colonial movements adopting nationalist frameworks and nationalist rhetoric and ideologies . <p> I would n't say all nationalisms are the same of course . There are those that are oppressive and those that are liberatory . A lot of the liberatory nationalisms of course at some point entail certain oppressive structures from within , as we 've seen in Eritrea for instance . <p> Ideally , we should move away from this . But I feel like there is a material reality where a lot of us understand that the only escape from a state 's own violence is to form your own state . Of course that 's a contradiction but in many ways other forms of existence are nor respected . <p> When we think of Rojava for instance as a way of building something outside statehood . Self-organised groupings that have a lot of meetings , this tedious process of building a collective stricture . As much as they 're imagining and trying to establish a different reality that contradicts statehood , that very lack of statehood makes them also vulnerable in a very nation-centred world , towards the violence of other nation states that will attack it . <p> Like for instance the new Syrian government forces them into an agreement or Turkey invading and occupying them . These kinds of vulnerabilities force us into this trap , but also into a corner , which we lack a response . I am someone who supports Tamil independence but I also argue how my sense of independence is an argument towards protection from genocide . That is the only reason for statehood that I would seek and envision . <p> In 1977 we had the Vaddukoddai resolution , which was formulating our statehood . They were all socialist , but some of them were very specific in terms of rights towards other groups , like so called " minorities " . These kind of envisionments maybe are idealistic and could crumble once you actually build these thing . But there are very few alternatives . <p> Hebh Jamal : So nationalism for you is bred out of this like resisting annihilation ? That is different . <p> Sinthujan Varatharajah : To me that is different . <p> Once we you have actually achieved that protection , then it is the moment to combat that nationalism . <p> It is like charities -- they should only exist to elevate an issue . And the moment that is resolved , it should dissolve . It is the same with nationalism . <p> Let me know when you 're ready for the final section -- where Hebh and Sinthujan reflect on intergenerational activism , gratitude , trauma , and their respective political awakenings . <h> We need your support . Every contribution counts . <p> Sri Lanka is one of the most dangerous places in the world to be a journalist . Tamil journalists are particularly at threat , with at least 41 media workers known to have been killed by the Sri Lankan state or its paramilitaries during and after the armed conflict . <p> Despite the risks , our team on the ground remain committed to providing detailed and accurate reporting of developments in the Tamil homeland , across the island and around the world , as well as providing expert analysis and insight from the Tamil point of view
