<p> UNITED NATIONS , Dec 23 : The UN Security Council has adopted a resolution that demanded scaling up humanitarian assistance throughout the Gaza Strip but did not call for a ceasefire which the UN Secretary General said was " needed " for aid to be effectively delivered . After days of intense negotiations and delays on a vote , the 15-nation Council on Friday adopted the United Arab Emirates-drafted resolution with 13 votes in favour , none against and abstentions by Russia and the US . The resolution demanded that parties to the conflict " allow , facilitate and enable the immediate , safe and unhindered delivery of humanitarian assistance at scale directly to the Palestinian civilian population throughout the Gaza Strip , and in this regard calls for urgent steps to immediately allow safe , unhindered , and expanded humanitarian access and to create the conditions for a sustainable cessation of hostilities . " It also demanded allowing and facilitating the use of " all available routes to and throughout the entire Gaza Strip , including border crossings . " The resolution however did not call for a ceasefire and experts described it as being " watered-down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the UN headquarters after the resolution was adopted , said that a humanitarian ceasefire is the only way to begin to meet the desperate needs of people in Gaza and end their ongoing nightmare . " I hope that today 's Security Council Resolution may help this finally to happen but much more is needed immediately , " he said . In response to a question on whether he was hoping the Council would have joined his call for a ceasefire , Guterres said " Of course , I was hopeful . That does n't mean that things happen according to our hopes . But in any case today , you can see , always , a glass as half full or half empty . " I hope that today 's resolution will make people understand that a humanitarian ceasefire is indeed something that is needed if we want humanitarian aid to be effectively delivered , " he said . US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield said it took many days and " many , many long nights of negotiating to get this right , but today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of unimaginable suffering . " She said that through the resolution , the Council called for urgent steps to immediately allow safe , unhindered , and expanded humanitarian access and to create the conditions for a sustainable cessation of hostilities . " I 'll note that this is the first time this Council has used this language . Language we believe is critical to scaling up aid and underscoring the tough steps ahead , as we work together to achieve a lasting peace , " she said . To expedite the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the civilian population in the Gaza Strip , the resolution also requested Guterres to " expeditiously " appoint a Senior Humanitarian and Reconstruction Coordinator with responsibility for facilitating , coordinating , monitoring , and verifying the humanitarian nature of all relief consignments to Gaza provided through states which are not party to the conflict . UN director at Human Rights Watch Louis Charbonneau said while the US did n't block the resolution , it " worked hard to water it down in negotiations . " Now the US needs to ensure that Israel implements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more collective punishment , no more starving and unlawfully bombing civilians , " he said . Reacting to the Council passing a " watered-down resolution " , Oxfam Regional Director for the Middle East and North Africa , Sally Abi-Khalil said the failure to call for a ceasefire after five days of deliberate delays and dilutions of the resolution is " incomprehensible , and utterly callous . " Oxfam said an immediate and permanent ceasefire is the only way to deliver humanitarian aid at the " scale and speed urgently needed , end the horrendous loss of life and ensure the safe return of hostages . " Guterres noted with concern that over the last weeks and days , there has been no significant change in the way the war has been unfolding in Gaza . " There is no effective protection of civilians . Intense Israeli bombardment and ground operations continue . More than 20,000 Palestinians have reportedly been killed , the vast majority women and children , " he said , adding that about 1.9 million people -- 85 per cent of Gaza 's population -- have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Palestinian factions continue to fire rockets from Gaza into Israel . He added that many people are measuring the effectiveness of the humanitarian operation in Gaza based on the number of trucks from the Egyptian Red Crescent , the UN and its partners that are allowed to unload aid across the border . " This is a mistake . The real problem is that the way Israel is conducting this offensive is creating massive obstacles to the distribution of humanitarian aid inside Gaza , " he said . UAE 's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Lana Nusseibeh said that if " drastic action " is not taken , " there will be famine in Gaza . " " The purpose of this text is very simple . It responds with action to the dire humanitarian situation on the ground for the Palestinian people bearing the brunt of this conflict while protecting those who are trying to deliver life-saving aid , " she said . " We believe that the resolution begins to unblock life-saving aid whose denial has condemned more than half a million people , in Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ )
