<h> Oscar Worthy <p> No Other Land , a documentary about the unlikely alliance between a Palestinian activist and an Israeli journalist as they document the struggles of those living under occupation in the West Bank , won the Oscar for Best Documentary on Sunday . While the award may do little in tangible terms for the people of the West Bank and Gaza , it signifies a growing recognition that the suffering of Palestinians is an issue that must be acknowledged . Films , documentaries , and stories that bring this reality to the forefront deserve to be celebrated and amplified , as they help counter the decades of propaganda pushed by the Zionist government of Israel and its Western allies -- particularly in the media , news industry , and Hollywood . The influence of Zionism in these fields has long suppressed narratives that challenge the official Israeli stance . <p> Last year , The Zone of Interest won the Oscar for Best International Feature for its portrayal of a German officer 's life next to the Auschwitz extermination camp . Zionist media hailed the film as reinforcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parallels between the suffering of Auschwitz 's Jewish prisoners and the treatment of Gaza 's Muslim inhabitants , they were swiftly ostracised by many in Hollywood . Major news organisations refused to publish their remarks , and the official Oscars YouTube channel even declined to upload the acceptance speech . Similarly , the BBC -- one of the most egregious enablers of Israeli propaganda -- recently pulled the documentary How to Survive a War Zone after Israeli government pressure , demonstrating just how much control Israel exerts over international media . Even celebrated filmmakers and established news organisations are not immune to this suppression . <p> This Oscar victory underscores the crucial role of film , art , and cultural influence in the fight against misinformation and the pursuit of justice . In the battle for truth , such recognition serves as a reminder that storytelling remains one of the most powerful tools in the struggle for Palestinian freedom .
