<h> Keeping Record <p> As the genocide in Gaza resumes , a litany of nations comes to mind whose actions must be remembered by the global community and who must face accountability when the time comes . Chief among them , perhaps hand in hand with Israel , remains the United States . But in close proximity is the United Kingdom , which has provided direct intelligence , arms transfers , and ammunition , as well as support through its vast state-controlled media apparatus , including the BBC . <p> Following the United Kingdom are nations like Germany and France , both major arms suppliers , along with Italy . These countries have continued their contracts with Israel despite its actions , refused to institute an arms embargo that might have severely limited Israel 's ability to carry out its campaign , and have , for all intents and purposes , provided diplomatic cover while simultaneously cracking down on pro-Palestinian protests at home . Germany is the most egregious in this regard . One would have hoped that after committing genocide during the Holocaust , the German government might have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears that assisting in a new genocide -- this time favouring Jewish interests -- is seen as a means of atoning for its own bloody past . <p> Beyond these Western nations , the role of Arab and Muslim-majority countries can not be ignored . From bordering states like Jordan and Egypt to supposed guarantors of ceasefires such as Saudi Arabia and the UAE , as well as trade partners of Israel like Turkey and Azerbaijan , these nations may lack the military or diplomatic power to intervene directly , but they wield enormous leverage through their economies , trade routes , and regional influence . Given that many of these countries are home to some of the world 's largest Muslim populations -- populations that have consistently demanded action -- their inaction is all the more disappointing . <p> There will come a time when the world must reckon with its complicity as this genocide raged on . When that moment arrives , these nations will bear the heaviest burden of accountability .
