<p> LAHORE - Jamaat-e-Islami Emir Hafiz Naeem ur Rehman has condemned the silence of Muslim rulers over Israeli aggression in Gaza , calling it tantamount to supporting oppression under U.S. patronage . Addressing a protest demonstration outside the U.S. Consulate in Lahore against Israeli atrocities , he warned that if the government failed to take concrete steps to support Palestinians and did not condemn the U.S. , the next protest would be held inside the American embassy . <p> Rehman pointed out that Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif was in Saudi Arabia and expressed hope that a joint declaration condemning the U.S. and Israel would be issued . He lamented that not only the government but also the opposition remained silent on the Palestinian issue , saying all political parties are competing for U.S. approval . He urged PML-N , PPP , and PTI to openly condemn the U.S. He also called on the Army Chief to take a stance in favor of Palestine and with the government permission convene a meeting of Muslim military leaders to send a strong message to Israel . " I am certain that just such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he asserted . Referring to reports circulating on social media about Pakistani journalists visiting Israel , he demanded that the government clarify its position . He warned that if any secret deals were made with Zionists at the cost of Palestinian blood , the rulers would face public wrath . The JI Emir also called for a boycott of Israeli products and announced plans to hold million-man marches in major cities in solidarity with the people of Palestine . Following his call , demonstrations , rallies , and marches were held across Pakistan , including outside U.S. embassies and consulates in Islamabad , Karachi , Peshawar , Rawalpindi , and Quetta . Criticizing the ongoing Israeli attacks despite calls for a ceasefire , he revealed that 600 people , including 250 children , had been martyred in recent days . He condemned the closure of the Rafah crossing and said the U.S. is fully supporting Israeli terrorism by providing weapons . He decried the inaction of Muslim rulers , calling them equally responsible for Palestinian bloodshed . " Pakistan is a nuclear power , and the entire Muslim Ummah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. subservience . <p> The opposition must also speak out against Israeli and American aggression -- the people are watching , and they know everything , " he warned . <p> He stressed that Palestine was a matter of faith for Muslims , recalling that on March 23 , 1940 , one resolution was passed for the creation of Pakistan , and another expressed solidarity with Palestine while condemning Israel . He reminded that Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah had called Israel the " illegitimate child of the West " and reaffirmed that Pakistan would never recognize it . Dismissing arguments about Pakistan 's weak economy preventing it from taking a strong stance against the U.S. , he held the ruling elite responsible for economic downfall . " Stop telling us we are weak . Our rulers must shed their cowardice , " he declared , urging them to learn from Hamas 's resistance . He concluded by paying tribute to Hamas for its struggle against Israeli occupation .
