<h> Gaza : return of brutality <p> Israel 's decision to restart its bloody campaign in Gaza has taken the death toll of the ' conflict ' past 50,000 lives . Israel 's egregious breach of the ceasefire - Israel launched airstrikes on Gaza while mediation talks were taking place - was blamed by its government on Hamas using the ceasefire to regroup , but this has been rubbished by Israeli media , and even former hostages have questioned the logic behind violating the ceasefire . The real reason appears to be that under the ceasefire deal , Israel was supposed to eventually begin negotiating toward a permanent peace deal , which Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's far-right government refused to do . Israel also saw a window to force a much more one-sided deal on Hamas now that US President Donald Trump is in office . Remember , Trump has already suggested ethnic cleansing in Gaza , which had previously only been suggested by fringe , virulently anti-Palestinian politicians and commentators . <p> But getting a ' better ' deal for Israel may not even be Netanyahu 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stay in office despite facing a corruption trial and several governance challenges . Recently , he also fired top security officials who cited his political problems among the reasons Israel failed to detect and prevent the October 7 , 2023 Hamas attack that started the current crisis . Israelis are still protesting in the streets over the sackings . Meanwhile , active hostilities give him a smokescreen to pass a controversial budget - failure to do so would trigger an election , which would likely see him lose power . It was bad enough when Palestinians were being slaughtered as part of an ultra-nationalist Israeli security plan . Now , it is increasingly clear that 50,000 people have died to keep one corrupt man in office , all with the approval of the US , Germany and several other Western powers that continue to provide Israel with the arms and ammunition it needs to mow down hapless Palestinians .
