<h> Subscribe to notifications <p> WHILE the Trump administration may have no problem with Israel renewing its rampage in Gaza , it is playing peacemaker in the Ukraine conflict . American officials had been meeting their Ukrainian and Russian counterparts in Riyadh over the past few days , and on Tuesday , a naval ceasefire in the Black Sea was announced . Efforts to revive an earlier commitment by Kyiv and Moscow not to hit each other 's energy infrastructure were also endorsed . Washington was basically passing messages back and forth between Moscow and Kyiv in the hopes of securing a temporary ceasefire . But even as peace talks were underway in the Saudi capital , Russian and Ukrainian forces continued to trade fire . No miracles were expected from the parleys in Riyadh , and the present outcome appears to be merely a fragile baby step towards peace . <p> The fact is that with the change of guard in Washington , Ukraine has lost its major benefactor and financier . While the Biden administration portrayed Kyiv 's battle against Moscow as a grand , almost cosmic duel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' dark ' encroaching forces of authoritarianism , Donald Trump harbours no such illusions . The way the US president and vice-president humiliated the Ukrainian president in the White House last month is an apt illustration of Mr Trump 's feelings about Kyiv 's current leadership . Also , digressing from his predecessor 's approach , Mr Trump has opened lines of communication with Russian President Vladimir Putin . The cards , therefore , are very much stacked against Ukraine , as the US is no longer interested in bankrolling the war , while Europe is in no position to finance or arm Kyiv . Morally , Russia should withdraw from Ukraine while Kyiv must assure Moscow that it will not be playing the role of Nato 's sidekick in an endeavour to encircle Russia . Unfortunately , the trust deficit between Kyiv and Moscow is huge , and despite the US-backed diplomatic push in Riyadh , peace is unlikely unless both parties make significant concessions .
