@@4530529 <h> Are India , Pakistan likely to stumble into N-war ? <p> Are India and Pakistan likely to stumble into nuclear war ? This appalling possibility has long been kept alive by conflicts between the two historical enemies , but it may have been pushed closer to fulfilment by a catastrophic failure of US foreign policy in South Asia . In recent weeks , a cover story in the Economist on the worlds most dangerous border , and former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger warned of a pre-World War I , Balkans-like scenario in South Asia that leads to a global conflict . Other developments , which have largely escaped the radar of Western commentators , give deeper cause for foreboding . A day after US Navy SEALs killed Osama bin Laden , the Indian army and air chiefs declared that the Indian military was capable of mounting similar operations in Pakistan . Pakistans spy chief , Lieutenant General Ahmad Shuja Pasha , responded with the claim that the Pakistani military had already rehearsed retaliatory strikes on India . This isnt just playground posturing . Soon after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened Pakistan with an all-out war . The rhetoric on the other side of the border was no less intemperate . In 2001 , the Hindu nationalist-led government responded to a terrorist attack by the militants on Indias Parliament by mobilising hundreds of thousands of troops on the border . Both nations eventually pulled back from the brink . Angry Indian Politicians But since then , terrorist attacks , such as the one on Mumbai in November 2008 , routinely provoke angry calls from Indian politicians and news commentators for surgical strikes on the alleged training camps and headquarters of extremist groups in Pakistan . Writing as Israel pounded Gaza a few weeks after the Mumbai attacks , the former diplomat Shashi Tharoor spoke of Indias Israel envy . Indians know that war with Pakistan would be catastrophically counterproductive . Yet , as he wrote , when Indians watch Israel take the fight to the enemy , killing those who launched rockets against it some of them can not resist wishing that they could do something similar in Pakistan . One reason India has nt is that since 2004 it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he distanced himself from Indias Strangelovian military bosses and talking heads , and a line of thinking that he said was mired in a mindset that is neither realistic nor productive . Manmohan Singhs Dilemma Singh knows that the long-unresolved issue of Kashmir lies at the heart of the tense relationship between India and Pakistan . More than 70,000 people , mostly Muslim , have died in India-Held Kashmir . Any Idiots Guide to South Asia will tell you that peace in the region will remain a distant dream until India and Pakistan reach a solution acceptable to Kashmiri Muslims as well as nationalists in both countries . This will initially require , at the very least , India to shift troops out of the Kashmir valley , where during the past two summers hundreds of thousands of Indian soldiers have confronted increasingly nonviolent and overwhelmingly young Muslim protesters . Indias new image in Europe and America as a rising power has diminished the Indian appetite for compromise and negotiation . Following Russias Example Singh faces a strident domestic constituency that believes in isolating and neutering Pakistan while striking Held-Kashmir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example in Chechnya , an iron fist . There is in India , as in Israel , a public opinion that recoils at the prospect of talking on equal terms with neighbours viewed as terrorists . As is the case in the Middle East , the only country to have leverage with both parties is the US and there are few obstacles to using this leverage with India . The close American relationship with India is still new , and not captive to domestic politics in the US . Seeking to make India a strategic counterweight to China , and a solid business partner , the administration of George W. Bush rewarded it with an exceptionally generous nuclear deal . Americas Dual Role There is of course an unresolvable contradiction in a foreign policy that builds up Indias military and economic capacity while pushing Pakistan to launch resource-draining campaigns against extremists . Not surprisingly , the sight of the US cozying up to Pakistans traditional enemy has made the Islamabad establishment not only more paranoid , but also more duplicitous in its dealings with American military and intelligence . The diplomatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come into clear view . Unlike Bush , President Obama is fully aware of the importance of Kashmir to his most urgent foreign policy challenge : stabilising Afghanistan and Pakistan . He came to office claiming that working with Pakistan and India to try to resolve the Kashmir crisis in a serious way were among the critical tasks for the next administration . Arguing With Pakistan The argument for the Pakistanis was to be : Look at India and what they are doing , why do you want to keep being bogged down with this , particularly at a time when the biggest threat now is coming from the Afghan border ? But as the WikiLeaks cables revealed , the Obama administration surrendered quickly to the Indian ultimatum that the envoy to the region , the late Richard Holbrooke , exclude Kashmir from his responsibilities . Holbrooke himself remained convinced , according to his widow , Kati Marton , that Pakistan would remain unstable and vulnerable to extremism until adequate steps to resolve Kashmir were taken ; he advocated more American pressure on India in this regard . When Obama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to encourage Indias naively triumphalist self-perception as a country that has already arrived . Its unlikely that he subscribes to the anachronistic Cold War binaries of the Bush administration that counterpoised India and China . Yet he carefully avoids mentioning Kashmir in his speeches . Like the Balkans Perhaps its not too late for Obama to try the more even handed and integrated approach to India and Pakistan that he outlined as a candidate . The mood in both countries is febrile - Kissingers analogy with the pre-WWI Balkans is exact in this respect . The Indian media are giving extensive coverage to the terrorism trial in Chicago . Any new terrorist attack originating in Pakistan would vastly increase the number of Indians clamouring for an assault on their neighbour ; and even Prime Minister Singh may not be able to resist them . Pakistan of course has been readying itself for a military incursion across the border . Last month , it tested a remarkably mobile missile system designed to unleash low-yield nuclear weapons on tank formations . Faced with a rash Indian strike , it might well behave even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compartmentalised policies in South Asia have done little to thwart . Bloomberg 
