<p> People in Damascus celebrate on Decr 9 , 2024 , after Islamist-led rebels declared that they have taken the Syrian capital in a lightning offensive , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing and ending five decades of Baath rule in Syria . <h> Opinion <p> People in Damascus celebrate on Decr 9 , 2024 , after Islamist-led rebels declared that they have taken the Syrian capital in a lightning offensive , sending President Bashar al-Assad fleeing and ending five decades of Baath rule in Syria . <p> Martin Regg Cohn is a Toronto-based columnist focusing on Ontario politics and international affairs for the Star . Follow him on Twitter : @reggcohn . <p> The sudden fall of Syria , and the stunning isolation of Iran , were surely not the domino effects envisioned by Hamas when it attacked Israel 14 months ago . <p> Back then , Hamas 's terrorist leadership fantasized about the fireball it might ignite by butchering more than 1,200 Israelis , mostly civilians , and taking hundreds hostage . The slaughter would very likely provoke a furious Israeli counterattack and presage a Middle East conflagration destined to draw the combined might of Lebanon , Iran and Yemen to the side of Gaza 's Palestinians . <p> Now , the architect of that strategy of brutality and insanity , Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar , is dead -- as is his Lebanese accomplice who firebombed Israel from the north , Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah . Both were killed and their combat brigades defeated by Israel , which has survived their co-ordinated attacks to consolidate its position as a regional power . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> But the fallout goes further . <p> Today , Syrian president Bashar Assad has lost his army and his people have perhaps regained their country ( though women may yet be the losers under Islamist rule ) . The dictator who hosted Hamas leaders in Damascus , while shepherding Iranian arms shipments to Lebanon , has just sought asylum in Moscow . All thanks to the chain reaction triggered by the Hamas massacre , culminating with Israel 's decapitation of Assad 's borrowed Hezbollah enforcers , whose brutal suppression of Syrian insurgents and civilians is no more . <p> As for Iran , which steered the anti-Israel " Axis of Resistance " from afar , it can now be said that the wheels are coming off the Islamic Republic . After relentlessly colonizing and militarizing both Lebanon and Syria , Iran has suddenly been shorn of its vassal states and stands almost alone in its long distance proxy war with Israel ( with only Yemen 's Houthi insurgents offering unquestioned loyalty ) . <p> To think that all this is the handiwork of Hamas , which dreamed not of freeing Gaza ( which it already ruled , unchallenged , two decades after Israel withdrew ) but liberating all lands " from the river to the sea . " Which is to say -- for those who say it without quite seeing it -- from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea , extinguishing what lies between it in present-day Israel . <p> It can now be said that the late and unlamented Sinwar , who imagined he would live to see the Middle East remade as he imagined it , has achieved the precise opposite in death -- more death than he bargained for : more than 44,000 Gazans are dead ( according to Hamas authorities , with one-third of them combatants , according to Israel ) ; some 3,500 Lebanese are dead ( including Hezbollah members targeted by a bombing campaign that began with Israel 's covert pager attack ) . <p> Iran , far from presiding over the destruction of Israel , finds itself more vulnerable than ever : its air defenses destroyed after a series of tit-for-tat attacks , its Lebanese proxy fighting force in disarray , its military entrepot in Syria dismantled . <p> Against that backdrop , two of Iran 's two major rivals -- not just Israel but Turkey , too -- are flexing their newfound muscle . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> Turkey has been the driving force in the latest Syrian upheaval , training and encouraging the Islamist insurgents who have just taken power . Exploiting the vacuum of power after Hezbollah 's retreat , a loose coalition of anti-Assad forces moved into the breach . <p> But it is a delicate balance . Ethnic Kurds are also part of this volatile mix , and they are justifiably wary of Turkey 's history of sabotaging and suffocating Kurdish aspirations , most recently by attacking civilian areas without a whisper of criticism from the outside world . <p> But Israel has also shored up its border areas by encroaching on and occupying Syrian territory : first it moved into a buffer zone ( after Syrian troops abandoned their border posts ) ; then took it over the strategic Mt . Hermon outright , seeking a clear line of sight over potential adversaries . <p> All this was undertaken under the guise of a defensive deployment until the dust settles . But it also looks suspiciously like " facts on the ground , " which history shows to be a recurring theme in Israeli military strategy . <p> Canada also has a history in the Golan Heights , where our peacekeepers have been deployed over the decades to keep the peace agreed to by Israel and Syria since1974 . I 've seen it from every angle -- escorted in from the Syrian side by the ancient regime 's minders ; hosted by Canadian peacekeepers at their reinforced base ; and viewed from the Israeli-annexed side , where Druze families would visit the so-called " Shouting Fence " with megaphones to connect with their relatives on the other side ( before WhatsApp rendered it obsolete ) . <p> Israel 's military success in Lebanon set the stage for Syria 's collapse after a half-century of tension and confrontation . But snatching territory from the emerging regime in Syria is nothing if not provocative , as opposition leaders in Israel have pointed out . <p> This is a bad time for any regional power -- Turkey , Israel or Iran -- to overplay its hand . Hamas learned that lesson the hard way . <p> Opinion articles are based on the author 's interpretations and judgments of facts , data and events . More details <p> Martin Regg Cohn is a Toronto-based columnist focusing on Ontario politics and international affairs for the Star . Follow him on Twitter : @reggcohn.
