<p> Important notice : To continue serving our valued readers during the postal disruption , complete unrestricted access to the digital edition is available at no extra cost . This will ensure uninterrupted digital access to your copies . Click here to view the digital edition , or learn more . <p> Pope Francis and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas speak with the help of a priest translating for them as they meet in the Apostolic Palace at the Vatican Dec. 12 , 2024 . CNS photo/Vatican Media <h> Pope Francis , Palestinian president meet at Vatican <p> As the fighting in Gaza drags on , Pope Francis welcomed Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to the Vatican . <p> The Vatican press office said the two spoke privately for 30 minutes Dec. 12 before Abbas introduced his delegation and exchanged gifts with Pope Francis . <p> The pope gave the Palestinian leader a plaque of a bloom sprouting through a crack in the pavement with the Italian inscription , " Peace is a fragile flower . " <p> Abbas gave the pope two paintings : one of the two of them together and the other , based on a well-known photo , shows Pope Francis praying for peace in front of the Israeli security wall in Bethlehem during his visit in 2014 . <p> The Palestinian president also brought the pope a gift from Greek Orthodox Patriarch Theophilos III of Jerusalem : an icon of St. Porphyrius , a fourth-century bishop of Gaza . <p> As has become the Vatican custom , the press office issued a statement that the pope met the Palestinian leader but provided no details on their discussion . <p> Instead , the statement focused on Abbas ' meeting in the Secretariat of State , which , it said , highlighted " the important contribution of the Catholic Church to Palestinian society , also in assisting in the very serious humanitarian situation in Gaza , where it is hoped that there will be a ceasefire and the release of all hostages as soon as possible . " <p> The Vatican and Palestinian delegations also condemned " all forms of terrorism , " the statement said , and affirmed " the importance of reaching the solution for the two states ( Israel and Palestine ) only through dialogue and diplomacy . " <p> They also agreed that " Jerusalem , protected by a special status , can be a place of encounter and friendship between the three great monotheistic religions , " Judaism , Christian and Islam . <p> " Finally , " the statement said , " the hope was expressed that the Jubilee of 2025 may lead to the return of pilgrims in the Holy Land , which longs so much for peace . " <p> According to his official Facebook page , Abbas inaugurated the new offices of the Palestinian embassy to the Holy See during his visit to Rome . <p> Whereas the Vatican recognizes Palestinian statehood , Italy , like most countries in the European Union , does not . <p> A statement issued by WAFA , the official Palestinian news agency , said Abbas " thanked the pope for his positions in support of achieving a just peace in Palestine based on the two-state solution , a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip and the entry of aid into the Gaza Strip , and that hospitals , schools and places of worship enjoy all necessary protection . " <p> The Palestinian leader also told the pope that during the Christmas season all Christians should " pay attention to the suffering of the Palestinian people , who yearn for peace , justice , liberation from occupation , the exercise of their right to self-determination and the realization of their independent state with East Jerusalem as its capital , " WAFA said . <p> Abbas also spoke to the pope about the need " to preserve the historical and legal status of Islamic and Christian holy places in Jerusalem , and the need to ensure freedom of worship and free access to the holy places , and to preserve the holy city in the face of unilateral policies that affect the city 's identity and civilized character . " <h> Please support The Catholic Register <p> Unlike many media companies , The Catholic Register has never charged readers for access to the news and information on our website . We want to keep our award-winning journalism as widely available as possible . But we need your help . <p> For more than 125 years , The Register has been a trusted source of faith-based journalism . By making even a small donation you help ensure our future as an important voice in the Catholic Church . If you support the mission of Catholic journalism , please donate today . Thank you .
