<p> As Israel 's current military campaign against Palestinians surpasses 14 months , President-elect Donald Trump has avoided saying whether he would allow the U.S.-supported country to annex the occupied West Bank under his incoming administration . <p> " I do n't want people killed , you know ? " Trump , who has previously said Israel should " finish the problem , " told the magazine . " I do n't want people from either side killed , and that includes whether it 's Russia , Ukraine , or whether it 's the Palestinians and the Israelis and all of the , you know , different entities that we have in the Middle East . " <p> Time staff directly asked Trump if he wants to secure a two-state deal as outlined in his first administration 's Peace to Prosperity plan -- a position that many leaders in the West , including President Joe Biden , publicly support as a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- or if he 'd be willing to let Israel annex the occupied West Bank , as far-right politicians have demanded . <p> " I support whatever solution we can do to get peace . There are other ideas other than two-state , but I support whatever , whatever is necessary to get not just peace , but a lasting peace , " he said , not answering the question . " It ca n't go on where every five years you end up in tragedy . There are other alternatives . " <p> Advertisement <p> A banner congratulates President-elect Donald Trump on winning the U.S. presidential election , in Jerusalem on Nov. 7 , 2024 . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu congratulated Trump on his victory , calling it " history 's greatest comeback " and a new beginning in the U.S.-Israel alliance . <p> Ahmad Gharabli/AFP via Getty Images <p> The Palestinian territories are made up of Gaza , the West Bank and East Jerusalem . The West Bank is home to many Palestinian families , though they have long faced segregation , forced evictions and violence at the hands of both Israeli soldiers and settlers residing there in defiance of international law . Human rights groups have labeled the attacks as acts of apartheid . <p> Most of the people Trump has said he will nominate to serve in his administration are extremely pro-Israel -- including Pete Hegseth for defense secretary , Mike Waltz for national security adviser , Marco Rubio for secretary of state and Mike Huckabee for ambassador to Israel . Huckabee has voiced support for the settlement movement and for Israel annexing the West Bank . <p> " There has never been an American president that has been more helpful in securing and understanding the sovereignty of Israel , " Huckabee told Israel Army Radio in November . " I fully expect that to continue . " <p> Under Trump 's first term , there were 33,000 new Israeli housing units in the West Bank , almost three times as many as in former President Barack Obama 's second term . But in 2020 , Trump had stopped Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu from annexing the territory as part of a normalization deal between Israel and the United Arab Emirates . <p> Advertisement <p> President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu shake hands at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem , on May 23 , 2017 . <p> Sebastian Scheiner via Associated Press <p> When Time staff pointed out the latter , Trump still would not say whether he 'd allow Israel to annex the West Bank this time around , answering , " We 'll see what happens . " <p> " I want a long-lasting peace . I 'm not saying that 's a very likely scenario , but I want a long-lasting peace , a peace where we do n't have an Oct. 7 in another three years . And there are numerous ways you can do it , " he said before adding , " We have some tremendous world problems that we did n't have when I was president . " <p> Advertisement <p> For the past year , Israel has largely focused its attacks on Gaza , rendering the territory uninhabitable and killing at least 44,000 Palestinians -- a likely undercount , according to experts -- after Hamas militants killed about 1,200 people and captured 250 in an attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , on southern Israel . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give once or many more times , we appreciate your contribution to keeping our journalism free for all . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give just one more time or sign up again to contribute regularly , we appreciate you playing a part in keeping our journalism free for all . <p> An Axios report said Trump told Netanyahu that Israel must end its military campaign in Gaza before he takes office . The prime minister , who was also in office during the first Trump administration , has not given the incoming president any assurances about ending the war -- but Netanyahu likely feels " very confident " and " knows I want it to end , " Trump told the magazine .
