<p> At least 22 Palestinians were killed in Israeli airstrikes in Gaza on Saturday , medics said , while the Israeli military said it targeted gunmen operating from shelters and aid storages . <p> At least 10 people were killed in an airstrike near the municipality building in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip where people gathered to receive aid , medics said . <p> Casualties were being carried by foot , on rickshaws and private cars from the site of the attack to the hospital , medics said . The strike killed the head of the Hamas-run administrative committee in central Gaza , Diab Ali al-Jaru , a Hamas source said . <p> The Israeli military said al-Jaru , who was also the mayor of Deir Al-Balah , was the target of the strike and that he had assisted Hamas militants . Four more people were killed in a separate strike in the area . <p> Earlier , Israeli aircraft struck militants and weapon caches near an aid warehouse , the military said , after gunmen had fired rockets into Israel from there on Friday . Another rocket was fired from Gaza into Israel on Saturday , the military said . <p> A separate strike in Gaza City on a former shelter housing displaced people targeted Hamas fighters , the military said . At least seven people were killed in that attack , Palestinian medics said , including a woman and her baby . <p> Reuters was unable to confirm whether any of the people killed were fighters . Hamas does not disclose its casualties , and the Palestinian health ministry does not distinguish in its daily death toll between combatants and non-combatants <p> The Israeli military said it had taken precautions to reduce risk of harm to civilians . <p> A local journalist , Mohammed Baalousha who worked for Dubai Al Mashhad television was killed in a separate airstrike in Gaza City , health officials said . The military was looking into the report , a spokesperson said . <p> At least 137 journalists and media workers have been killed in Gaza in more than a year of war , according to The Committee to Protect Journalists . <p> The war began when the Palestinian militant group Hamas stormed into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 , mostly civilians , people and taking more than 250 hostages back to Gaza , according to Israeli authorities . <p> Israel then launched an air , sea and land offensive that has killed almost 45,000 people , mostly civilians , according to authorities in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , displaced nearly the entire population and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> A fresh bid by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to reach a truce has gained momentum in recent weeks . <p> Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi on Saturday discussed with visiting U.S. officials efforts to reach a ceasefire in Gaza and a hostages-for prisoners deal in the Palestinian enclave , Sisi 's office said .
