<p> Iran 's decision to rain missiles upon Tel Aviv last week will unleash a response that means trouble for the whole world . <p> After Hamas killed six hostages , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is facing questions about whether he should have done more to save them , writes Gwynne Dyer . Photograph courtesy of Wikimedia Commons <p> Israel 's prime minister is playing for time with the war , using it to avoid his criminal corruption trials , and an inquiry into whether he could have prevented Hamas ' brutal attack . The longer that 's put off , the better for him . <p> Israel 's prime minister is playing for time with the war , using it to avoid his criminal corruption trials , and an inquiry into whether he could have prevented Hamas ' brutal attack . The longer that 's put off , the better for him . <p> With the assassination of the political leader of Hamas in Tehran , Iran is vowing revenge against Israel . No one knows what that will look like . For now , the combatants seem to have forgotten some wise words . Seek vengeance , dig two graves . <p> With the assassination of the political leader of Hamas in Tehran , Iran is vowing revenge against Israel . No one knows what that will look like . For now , the combatants seem to have forgotten some wise words . Seek vengeance , dig two graves . <p> Anti-war protesters block the entrance to CANSEC at the EY Centre in Ottawa on May 29 . The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade <p> Palestinians inspect the ruins of Aklouk Tower destroyed in Israeli airstrikes in Gaza City on Oct. 8 , 2023 , the day after Hamas killed 1,200 people in Israel and took more than 200 hostage . Photograph courtesy of Wikimedia Commons <p> All Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu can promise is seven more months of war and the spectre of famine for a people who 've lost all but their lives . He knows that as long as he 's at war , he can avoid the early elections in which he would be crushed , according to the polls . <p> All Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu can promise is seven more months of war and the spectre of famine for a people who 've lost all but their lives . He knows that as long as he 's at war , he can avoid the early elections in which he would be crushed , according to the polls .
