<p> Israeli strikes across the Gaza Strip overnight and into Sunday killed at least 22 people , including five children , Palestinian medical officials said , while Gaza 's small Christian community celebrated a pre-Christmas Mass . <p> Israeli authorities allowed a rare Gaza visit by the leader of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land , Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa , for the Mass while the ever-present buzz of Israeli drones was heard outside . <p> One of the latest Israeli strikes hit a school housing displaced people in Gaza City and killed at least eight , including three children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry . Israel 's military said it struck Hamas militants sheltering there . <p> A strike on a home in the central city of Deir al-Balah late Saturday killed at least eight , including three women and two children , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . Israel 's military said it struck an Islamic Jihad militant . Another six people were killed in separate strikes on Sunday , according to local hospitals . <p> " The children are still inside the house . We are looking for them . They were sleeping in the living room , five of them together , " said a relative , Noman Abu Samra , as people searched rubble in Deir al-Balah . A window full of children watched . <p> Israel has carried out daily strikes in Gaza more than 14 months into the war with Hamas . It says it only targets militants , accusing them of hiding among civilians , but the bombings frequently kill women and children . <p> Israel and Hamas recently appeared to draw closer to a ceasefire agreement that would include the release of Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners , but several obstacles remain . <p> Dozens of worshippers gathered in the Holy Family Church in Gaza City as Pizzaballa and other clergy celebrated Mass . A twinkling Christmas tree was decorated with golden ornaments . <p> " I want to say , to tell you , that all the world , not only the Christian world , all the world is with you , So the war will finish and we will rebuild , " the cardinal said , urging Gazans to never be afraid . <p> His visit came as Pope Francis again criticized Israel 's actions in Gaza . Francis said Saturday his envoy had been unable to enter because of Israeli bombing . <p> " Yesterday children have been bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " Francis said during his annual Christmas greetings . On Sunday , he called for a ceasefire . <p> The pope recently called for an investigation to determine if Israel 's actions in Gaza constitute genocide , a conclusion reached by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch . The International Court of Justice is investigating genocide allegations brought against Israel by South Africa . <p> Israel , which was founded as a refuge for Jews after the Nazi Holocaust , rejects such allegations . It says it is only at war with Hamas , which ignited the conflict . <p> In an Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel and killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducted around 250 . Around 100 hostages are still in Gaza , at least a third believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's subsequent bombardment and ground invasion have killed over 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . <p> The offensive has caused widespread destruction and displaced some 90% of Gaza 's 2.3 million people , often multiple times . Hundreds of thousands are packed into squalid tent camps along the coast as the cold , wet winter sets in . <p> Israel has been carrying out a major operation in northern Gaza since October , battling Hamas in the most isolated and heavily damaged part of the territory . Tens of thousands have fled as the military has ordered a complete evacuation and allowed almost no humanitarian aid to enter . <p> The Israeli military body overseeing civilian affairs in Gaza , known as COGAT , said on Friday it facilitated the evacuation of over 100 patients , caregivers and others from Kamal Adwan Hospital and Al-Awda Hospital in the north . They have struggled to function . <p> Kamal Adwan 's director on Saturday asserted that Israel 's military had ordered an evacuation and said shelling was occurring . Israel 's military on Sunday said there was no evacuation order and it was unaware of any strikes there . <p> In the volatile West Bank town of Jenin , militants shot and killed a member of the Palestinian security forces and wounded two others . The Western-backed Palestinian Authority launched a rare crackdown there this month . <p> A statement from the security forces blamed the shooting on " outlaws , " without elaborating . The PA is internationally recognized but deeply unpopular among Palestinians , in part because it co-operates with Israel on security matters . <p> The PA exercises limited authority in population centres in the West Bank . Israel captured the territory in the 1967 Mideast War , and the Palestinians want it to form the main part of their future state .
