<p> Organizers said the vigil was a powerful display of solidarity with Palestinians that went smoothly , reflecting a commitment to honouring and grieving for Palestinian lives lost since the war broke out a little over a year ago . <p> The war began when Hamas militants committed a multi-pronged terror attack in Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , targeting civilians and leaving more than 1,200 people dead , while taking more than 200 Israeli hostages . Israel has since responded with numerous aerial bombings and ground offensives , killing thousands in Gaza . <p> Palestinians have been caught in the cross-hairs of a bitter war between Hamas and Israel . As of Dec. 10 , there have been 44,786 Palestinian fatalities , according to the United Nations , which also says 345,000 are facing catastrophic levels of food insecurity . <p> Vernon 4 Palestine says that while these are the official numbers , " the real numbers are certainly much higher , with thousands still buried under rubble or otherwise inaccessible . " <p> The vigil was a chance for the public to grieve for these lives lost , and to denounce the forces of imperialism , colonialism and war around the world . <p> The group pointed to British organization Oxfam 's determination that the war has led to more deaths of children in a 12-month period than in any of the world 's conflicts over the last 20 years . <p> " We grieve tonight for these stolen childhoods , these stolen children . These stolen mothers , fathers . These stolen aunties , uncles . These stolen grandparents , these stolen pets . These stolen homes . These stolen families . " <p> Vernon 4 Palestine said the modern Western world , with its fast-paced lifestyles and never-ending societal demands , does n't allow for time to grieve . And so , the vigil was a chance to take a moment to lament the lives lost in a war with no end in sight . <p> The group said Palestinians have lived under apartheid for over seven decades . <p> " When we fight and advocate for liberation in Palestine we must recognize that we are also fighting for our own liberation , " Vernon 4 Palestine said . " Humanity is defined by our connections to one another , and the more we divide ourselves the further we get away from what it means to be human . " <p> Dialogue and debate are integral to a free society and we welcome and encourage you to share your views on the issues of the day . We ask that you be respectful of others and their points of view , refrain from personal attacks and stay on topic . To learn about our commenting policies and how our community-based moderation works , please read our Community Guidelines .
