<p> The surprise invasion by Hamas fighters , who have killed more than 700 Israelis and reportedly kidnapped dozens into Gaza , prompted Israel to declare war and retaliate . The counterattack in Gaza has left more than 400 Palestinians dead and more than 100,000 displaced , according to the United Nations . <p> Trump has cast himself as the wise statesman in tense times like this before . <p> Countries where individuals have high institutional trust levels are happier than those living in less trusting and trustworthy environments . The 2022 Corruption Perceptions study ranks New Zealand as joint-second in the world when it comes to institutional trust -- one of the factors that help place this country in the top 10 yet again . Having a Prime Minister who prioritizes emotional and mental growth certainly does n't hurt , either : In 2019 , Jacinda Ardern introduced a Wellbeing Budget , which allocated billions of dollars towards initiatives like bolstering mental health , reducing child poverty , and supporting the Maori and Pasifika populations . <p> PHILADELPHIA ( AP ) -- Republicans attacked Robert F. Kennedy Jr . on Monday as the longtime environmental lawyer and anti-vaccine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflecting growing concerns on the right that the former Democrat now threatens to take votes from former President Donald Trump in 2024 . The Republican National Committee and Trump 's campaign both took aim at Kennedy 's liberal background while national Democrats stayed silent as Kennedy insisted in a speech in Ph <p> TORONTO -- The Maple Leafs made a series of moves on the eve of the NHL regular season , announcing netminder Matt Murray had undergone hip surgery as well as a series of changes to their staff . Murray will miss the next six to eight months after undergoing bilateral hip surgery . General manager Brad Treliving said at the start of the Leafs training camp that Murray was slated for " significant surgery " but would n't discuss the injury or procedure at the time . Murray , 29 , went 14-8-2 with .903 save
