<h> CAIRO : The army issued new evacuation orders in the southern part of the small enclave after Israeli military strikes killed at least 23 Palestinians on Tuesday , the majority of whom were in the northern border town of Beit Lahiya , according to medics . <p> According to medics , four individuals were murdered elsewhere in Gaza City and eight people were killed in a series of airstrikes in Beit Lahiya . <p> Later , in the northern coastal enclave of Jabalia , the biggest of Gaza 's eight historic refugee camps , an Israeli airstrike killed two people and injured others , according to medical officials . <p> Medics reported that three women were murdered by Israeli drone fire near Rafah , in the far south , and that another airstrike on the Al-Falah School , which was providing shelter to displaced families in the Zeitoun area of Gaza City , killed six people and injured others . <p> Israeli attacks on their teams and fuel shortages have caused the Palestinian Civil Emergency Service to cease operations in Jabalia , Beit Lahiya , and Beit Hanoun for almost four weeks . <p> 13 out of 27 vehicles in central and southern Gaza were also reported to be stopped due to a shortage of fuel on Tuesday . According to the report , Israel has murdered 88 Civil Emergency Service members , injured 304 , and arrested 21 since the conflict started in October 2023 . <p> Gaza 's health ministry reported on Tuesday that since Israel began its military attack on October 7 , 2023 , at least 44,502 Palestinians have been dead and 105,454 injured . <p> Orders for evacuationCiting rocket fire from terrorists in the northern sections of the south Gaza city of Khan Yunis , the Israeli army ordered residents to evacuate on Tuesday . Families hurriedly fled westward , generally before daybreak , in response to the orders , the most recent of many . <p> In a statement on X , the army stated , " You must leave the area right away and relocate to the humanitarian zone for your own safety . " <p> Hamas-Fatah accordIn the meantime , mediators from both sides said on Tuesday that Hamas and Fatah , the party of Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas , had decided to form a committee to jointly run Gaza after the battle . <p> According to a copy of the proposal seen by AFP , the committee would consist of 10 to 15 nonpartisan individuals with power on issues pertaining to the economy , education , health , humanitarian relief , and reconstruction under the plan , which requires Mr. Abbas 's approval . <p> The two opposing Palestinian movements decided that the committee would oversee the Palestinian side of the Rafah border with Egypt , the only one in the territory that is not shared with Israel , after negotiations mediated by Egypt in Cairo . <p> On condition of anonymity , the negotiators stated that Fatah 's delegation , headed by Azzam al-Ahmad , a member of the central party committee , was expected to return to Ramallah on Tuesday in order to obtain Mr. Abbas 's final consent . Khalil al-Hayya , a member of the Hamas politburo , led the trip . <p> Israeli politicians praise Trump 's promise.Israeli officials praised US President-elect Donald Trump 's promise on Tuesday that if detainees detained in the Gaza Strip are not freed before his inauguration on January 20 , there will be " hell to pay " in the Middle East . <p> Trump stated in a post on Truth Social that the detainees must be released by the time he takes office , without mentioning any specific organization . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America , " he declared , if his demand was not fulfilled . <p> Trump 's scathing remarks were openly praised by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and some of his ministers . <p> At the beginning of a cabinet meeting , Netanyahu stated , " President Trump placed the emphasis in the right place , on Hamas , and not on the Israeli government , as is customary ( elsewhere ) . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness .
