<p> The Senate today passed a unanimous resolution condemning the Israeli bombing in Gaza and other countries . <p> The resolution , moved by Sherry Rehman , expressed profound concern over the systemic exercise of impunity by Israel in its actions against Palestine , <p> The House noted with alarm the exploitation of the political vacuum caused by regime collapse in Syria , which Israel is using to advance its unilateral agenda . This agenda now extends beyond Palestine to violations of the sovereignty of Syria and many other countries . <p> The Senate also strongly condemned the killing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency team members . <p> It further condemned Israel 's recent legislative measures aimed at undermining a mandate of United Nations Relief and Works Agency , which provides essential aid in the West Bank , Gaza , Jordan and Syria . <p> This move will severely impact access to health , education and vital services for Palestinian Refugees and threatens the right of return for Palestinian Refugees as enshrined in International Law . <p> It also noted that since the start of the current onslaught 44,612 Palestinians have been martyred and 105,834 injured including women and children . <p> The Senate condemned the targeted killing of over hundred and eighty journalists during Israeli bombings in Gaza and the deliberate destruction of critical infrastructure , including hospitals , schools and residential areas . <p> The Upper House reaffirmed Pakistan 's unwavering support for the Palestinian cause , recognizing its moral , political and legal obligations . Pakistan reiterates its consistent support for the two state solution of the Palestine issue as enshrined in the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions . <p> The House reaffirmed its solidarity with the people of Palestine and called for the establishment of a viable , independent and contiguous state of Palestine based on internationally agreed parameters of the pre-1967 borders with Quds al-Sharif as its capital . <p> The Senate called on the international community to take decisive action to protect Palestinian lives , hold Israel accountable for war crimes and ensure compliance with international humanitarian law . It said an end to the culture of impunity is essential for achieving peace , justice and the protection of human rights in Palestine , the occupied territories and the Middle East . <p> Meanwhile , Lawmakers have emphasized the need for reconciliation and dialogue among the political parties for the sake of the country . <p> Speaking in the Senate , Jam Muhammad said all the political forces need to forge a national reconciliation and find a middle way to take the country forward . <p> Irfan Siddiqui called for ending the politics of confrontation and to sit together to sort out problems peacefully . He said the government is ready for dialogue as it does not shy from talks . <p> Ali Zafar said the door for dialogue should be kept open and the government needs to take appropriate confidence building measures to have a meaningful dialogue . <p> Sherry Rehman said negotiations are the only way forward but there should be no strings attached with that process .
