<p> In retaliation to Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attacks , Israel 's devastating ongoing military onslaught has killed more than 44,800 Palestinians and injured nearly 106,356 -- with the death toll feared to be much higher due to thousands still missing under the rubble . <p> Much of Gaza has been laid to waste in the conflict , with some two-thirds of its buildings damaged or destroyed . Most of the strip 's 2.3 million people have been made homeless , sheltering in places like the Jabalia refugee camp . Those camps themselves came under fire as Israel said it was going after fighters using the places as shields , an accusation Hamas denies . <p> This story contains sensitive material and images that may offend or disturb . <p> A press vest lies on the body of a Palestinian journalist Hamza Al-Dahdouh , the son of Al Jazeera journalist Wael Al-Dahdouh , after Hamza was killed in an Israeli strike , during his funeral in Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip , on January 7 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Many of Gaza 's inhabitants , including its children , faced supply shortages and hunger . Israel is facing accusations of committing genocide in Gaza by international NGOs as the International Court of Justice runs proceedings to determine Israel 's culpability . <p> Judges at the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) have also issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his former defence chief and a Hamas leader for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> Palestinians work to extinguish a fire at the site of an Israeli strike on a tent camp for displaced people , amid the Israeli invasion of Gaza , in Deir Al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip on August 4 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> As the death toll rose in Gaza , violence also surged in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , while at the Israel-Lebanon border Hezbollah exchanged fire with Israeli troops . <p> In October , Israel invaded Lebanon and ratcheted up its attacks on Hezbollah with intensified strikes on southern Lebanon and in parts of the capital Beirut . Lebanon 's government said more than 2,600 people were killed and villages near the border emptied during Israel 's invasion of Lebanon . <p> Mourners carry the coffins of Hezbollah members Fadel Abbas Bazzi and Ahmad Ali Hassan , after hand-held radios and pagers used by Hezbollah were detonated across Lebanon by Israel allegedly , during their funeral in Ghobeiry , Beirut on September 19 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A string of assassinations of militant leaders hurt Hezbollah and Hamas and were celebrated as triumphs by Israel , although domestically the government also faced protests for its failure to secure the return of all the hostages . On a " Day of Disruption " in May , demonstrators held up Israeli flags and photos of those still being held hostage in Gaza . <p> A person covers themselves with a sign as police use water cannons to disperse demonstrators during a protest against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's government in Tel Aviv , Israel on Feb 24 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> After Israel bombed the Iranian embassy in Syria , Iran engaged in tit-for-tat strikes with Israel , raising fears of a wider war that could draw in the Israel-allied United States . <p> In late November , a ceasefire was agreed between Israel and Hezbollah -- a rare ray of hope although sporadic Israeli attacks in Lebanon continue . <p> A woman reacts at the site of an Israeli strike in Beirut 's Basta neighbourhood , amid the Israeli invasion of Lebanon on November 23 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Taking advantage of a weakened Hezbollah , which like Iran was on the back foot after the conflict with Israel , Syrian rebels launched a wide offensive against the army of President Bashar al-Assad . In little more than a week in December , the five-decade rule of the Assad family came to an end as the rebels swept through the country . <p> Israeli forces have also started an incursion into Syria while conducting more than 350 airstrikes in the country since the fall of Assad . <p> What 2025 will bring for Syrians , Lebanese , Palestinians , Israelis and others who live in the war-torn region remains to be seen . <p> Palestinians wait to receive food during Ramadan , in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip on March 13 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Twins Wesam and Naeem Abu Anza will never get to find out or to know peace . Born in late 2023 in Gaza after hostilities broke out , the infant boy and girl were buried in March of this year after being killed in an Israel airstrike in Rafah , according to Gaza authorities . <p> Palestinian woman Buthayna Abu Jazar reacts as she holds the hand of her son Hamza , who was killed in an Israeli strike in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip on May 9 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Smoke and flames rise in Beirut 's southern suburbs , after Israeli air strikes , amid the Israeli invasion of Lebanon , as seen from Sin El Fil , Lebanon on October 6 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> A man walks on a poster of Bashar al-Assad as a sanitation worker removes it from the street downtown , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted Assad , in Damascus , Syria on December 10 , 2024. -- Reuters <p> Header image : Smoke rises from Gaza , amid Israel 's offensive against Hamas , as seen from Israel 's border with Gaza , in southern Israel , on March 17 , 2024. -- Reuters
