<h> With Israel hopeful , the US will intensify efforts to reach a truce in Gaza . <h> DUBAI : In addition to the situation in Syria after the regime transition , US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will visit Israel on Thursday to talk about efforts to mediate a ceasefire agreement and a prisoner swap in Gaza , the White House said . <p> According to National Security Council spokesperson Sean Savett , Sullivan will meet with Israeli officials to talk about the latest events in Syria , efforts to establish a ceasefire and prisoner release agreement in Gaza , and talks regarding Lebanon and Iran . <p> Following allegations that Hamas had requested lists of Israeli prisoners in the Palestinian enclave , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar indicated that Israel had grown " more optimistic about a possible " compromise in Gaza . <p> Although it was still too early to tell , he claimed that chances had improved and that indirect talks were underway regarding the return of roughly 100 convicts . <p> Trump 's Middle East aide threatens repercussions if inmates are not freed before January 20 . <p> " We are not there yet , but we can be more hopeful than we were before . Saar reiterated his position that a ceasefire would not be possible without a deal for the release of prisoners , saying , " I hope we will be there , " at a press conference in Jerusalem . <p> A Palestinian official who was aware of the mediation attempt stated that because of the Israeli bombardment , which has been going on for more than 14 months , Hamas has urged all organizations in Gaza to begin naming all of the captives in their hands , whether they are living or dead . <p> However , Hamas representatives declined to react right away . <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacked Israeli-occupied territory and captured over 250 captives . More than 44,700 Palestinians , primarily women and children , have been slain by Israeli forces in Gaza since then . <p> Although both parties accuse the other of impeding an agreement , Saar stated that Hamas ' prior stance " may have changed during recent times . " " There is a greater chance that an agreement will be reached if both parties are interested in it , " he stated . <p> Meanwhile , medical professionals said that Israeli strikes in Gaza persisted both overnight and Monday . They reported that at least four people were killed in one hit close to the Jabalia camp . <p> Eleven Palestinian dead were found by rescuers in Rafah . Six persons were murdered in an Israeli strike in Beit Lahiya , while four children were killed in an Israeli strike in Al-Maghazi . <p> President-elect Trump 's Middle East envoy has cautioned that if the captives detained in Gaza are not freed before to his inauguration , it will " not be a pretty day " amid the continued Israeli assaults . <p> Steve Witkoff , who will officially assume the role on January 20 when Trump 's government begins , expressed his hope and prayer that a ceasefire will be established in Gaza before to Trump 's inauguration . <p> He referred to Trump when he said , " You heard what the president said , they better be released . " " Pay attention to the president 's remarks . On the fringes of an Abu Dhabi conference , Witkoff continued , " If they 're not released , it 's not a pretty day . " <p> Last week , Trump warned on social media that if the prisoners were not released before his inauguration , there would be " hell to pay . " <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness .
