<p> More than 45,000 people have been killed in the besieged Gaza in the last 14 months , as humanitarians officials condemned Israel 's new deadly airstrikes across the besieged enclave , including on a UN school-turned-shelter , the UN reported Monday , quoting local authorities . <p> Images taken at the school in Khan Younis showed the impact point of one shell in a concrete upper floor where people had been living at the time of the attack late Sunday night . <p> According to the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , UNRWA , 13 people died and 48 were injured during the strike . There was no warning , said the victims . <p> " It 's been another very deadly night here in the Gaza Strip , we are waking up every single day to a new horror , " UNRWA Senior Emergency Officer , Louise Wateridge , told UN News , a media website . <p> " I have been to Nasser Hospital this morning . One of the children I spoke to her name was Mona , 17 years old ; she has very severe injuries to her leg -- she had very severe shrapnel wounds -- and she was in the hospital with her sister ... their mother was crushed to death under the rubble . " <p> Another victim , two-year old Julia , suffered severe head trauma and lost her sight in one eye ; her five-year-old brother also had a serious head injury . <p> Originally from Gaza City , the youngsters and their family " have been forcibly displaced seven or eight times , " Ms. Wateridge said . " They ended up in the UNRWA school , and they 've been there for the last seven months , and now this -- it just feels very hopeless . " <p> The development followed an update from the head of the UN Children 's Fund , UNICEF , that more than 14,500 youngsters have been reportedly killed in Gaza . Many thousands more are believed buried under the rubble . <p> Meanwhile , famine " continues to loom in the north " and humanitarian access remains " severely restricted " , said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell , in a post on social media . <p> " Virtually all 1.1 million children in Gaza are in urgent need of protection and mental health support , " she added , amid media reports that Israeli military activity in the last 24 hours has left at least 69 Palestinians dead , from Beit Lahia in the north to Rafah in the south . <p> Echoing those concerns , the UN World Food Programme ( WFP ) warned that Gazans were now desperately worried about not getting enough to eat . In the absence of a ceasefire , " we need to find a way of getting all the food that we have outside Gaza in " , said WFP 's Head of Emergency Communications , Jonathan Dumont . <p> " The devastation is absolutely staggering , " he continued , in an online message from Gaza . <p> " There 's no electricity or running water or sewage ( treatment ) . Almost everyone has lost their home . A lot of people are living in tents . We have hot meals , distributions ... People come and they get really desperate . You can see it in their faces and you can see it in their eyes . To prevent famine we need to find a way to get a consistent flow of food in. "
