<h> As officials strive for an agreement , peace talks in Gaza pick more steam . <h> Washington : According to sources briefed on the meeting on Tuesday , negotiations in Cairo are moving forward , and an agreement to end the 14-month-old war in Gaza and release inmates detained in the Palestinian enclave might be reached in the next few days . <p> In recent days , the US government has worked hard to move the negotiations along before President Biden steps down next month , with the help of mediators from Egypt and Qatar . <p> White House spokesperson John Kirby told Fox News , " We believe -- and the Israelis have said this -- that we 're getting closer , and without a doubt , we believe that , but we are cautious in our optimism . " <p> " We have previously been in this situation where we were unable to cross the finish line . " <p> According to the sources , a ceasefire agreement that would halt hostilities and exchange Palestinian inmates detained in Israeli prisons for those held by Hamas in Gaza might be reached in a matter of days . <p> In a statement , Hamas said that if Israel ceased imposing new requirements , a settlement might be reached . A Palestinian official involved in the mediation process stated the talks were serious and that every word was being discussed . <p> According to a statement from Netanyahu 's office , Netanyahu met with top military and security officials on Tuesday on Mount Hermon , a vital plateau just inside Syria . However , sources briefed on the meeting claimed that Netanyahu was en route to Cairo . <p> " The prime minister is not in Cairo , " his spokesperson wrote in a separate letter to Israeli media . <p> Netanyahu was not in Cairo " at this moment , " according to two Egyptian security officials , but a meeting was in progress to resolve the remaining issues , primary among them being a desire from Hamas for assurances that any quick agreement will result in a comprehensive one . According to the sources , Tuesday night might be crucial in determining the course of action . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness .
