<h> Israeli air strike kills 12 members of family , including 7 children <p> The Israeli strike on an apartment building in Nuseirat injured at least 15 people , the civil defence said . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> An Israeli air strike has killed 12 members of a family , including seven children , in the northern Gaza Strip , according to the Palestinian Civil Defence rescue agency . The bombing , which took place in Jabalia , saw victims pulled from the rubble of the Khallah family home . <p> " All of the martyrs are from the same family , including seven children , the oldest aged six , " said Mahmoud Basal , a spokesman for the Civil Defence , speaking to AFP . He added that the air raid also left 15 others injured . <p> The Israeli army confirmed the strike , saying it targeted " several terrorists who were operating in a military structure belonging to the Hamas terrorist organisation and posed a threat to IDF troops operating in the area . " <p> " According to an initial examination , the reported number of casualties resulting from the strike does not align with the information held by the IDF , " a spokesperson for the army added . <p> The attack came as Pope Francis condemned the bombing of children in Gaza , calling it " cruelty . " " Yesterday children were bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " he said . " I want to say it because it touches my heart . " <p> Israel 's assault on Gaza continues as the conflict enters its 14th month . On Friday , a drone missile struck a residential building in the Nuseirat refugee camp , killing at least eight people , according to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital . In Beit Hanoon , four people , including two girls and their parents , were killed in an airstrike . Meanwhile , the bodies of three brothers were recovered from the rubble of a home near Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> Gaza now a ' Graveyard , ' warns UNRWA <p> Gaza has become a " graveyard , " with worsening conditions including hunger , heavy rain , and ongoing attacks , warned Louise Wateridge , Senior Emergency Officer for the UN Palestinian Refugee Agency ( UNRWA ) . She added that " over two million people are trapped " in the region , struggling in makeshift shelters as most buildings have either been damaged or destroyed . <p> " It 's impossible for families to shelter in these conditions , " Wateridge said , speaking from the Nuseirat camp . " Most people are living under fabric , they do n't even have waterproof structures , and 69 percent of the buildings here have been damaged or destroyed . " <p> UNRWA , which assists nearly six million Palestinian refugees across Gaza and beyond , is grappling with a lack of resources as Israeli legislation has barred the agency from operating in Israel and occupied East Jerusalem . This move prompted Sweden to announce it would stop funding UNRWA but would double its aid to Gaza through other groups . UNRWA 's Chief Philippe Lazzarini described the decision as " disappointing , " given the dire situation in Gaza . <p> Meanwhile , the UN General Assembly has asked the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) to issue an advisory opinion on Israel 's obligations regarding humanitarian aid in Palestinian territories . This follows previous ICJ rulings urging Israel to halt its offensive in Rafah and allow safe passage for humanitarian aid , which Israel has not complied with . <p> The ongoing crisis continues to strain international efforts to provide assistance to those affected by the violence .
