<p> Pope Francis has denounced the " extremely grave " humanitarian situation in Gaza and appealed for an immediate ceasefire , the release of captives , and humanitarian aid to those suffering from hunger and war . Speaking from the Vatican during his Christmas " Urbi et Orbi " address on Wednesday , the Pope also extended his calls for peace to other conflict zones , including Ukraine and Sudan . <p> " I think of the Christian communities in Israel and Palestine , particularly in Gaza , where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave . May there be a ceasefire , may the hostages be released and aid be given to the people worn out by hunger and by war , " he said . <p> The Pope 's remarks come amid Israel 's ongoing military operations in Gaza , which have resulted in at least 45,361 Palestinian deaths and 107,803 injuries since October 7 , 2023 . The violence began after a Hamas-led operation into Israel , which killed 1,139 people and took about 200 captives . Israel 's " retaliation " has led to widespread displacement , leaving much of Gaza in ruins . <p> Francis , now in his 12th Christmas as pontiff , also called for an end to conflicts around the world , including in Lebanon , Mali , Mozambique , Haiti , Venezuela , and Nicaragua . " I invite every individual , and all people of all nations ... to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions , " he urged . <p> Calls for peace in Ukraine and Sudan <p> The Pope also addressed the war in Ukraine , calling for the " sound of arms to be silenced in war-torn Ukraine " and for " gestures of dialogue and encounter , in order to achieve a just and lasting peace . " Earlier this year , he was criticized by Ukrainian officials when he suggested that Ukraine should have the " courage of the white flag " to negotiate an end to the war with Russia . However , Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has shown increasing openness to peace talks , particularly following the re-election of Donald Trump as U.S. president . <p> In his address , Francis highlighted the ongoing war in Sudan , where a brutal civil war has raged for 20 months , leaving millions facing famine . " May the Son of the Most High sustain the efforts of the international community to facilitate access to humanitarian aid for the civilian population of Sudan and to initiate new negotiations for a ceasefire , " the Pope said . <p> The war in Sudan began in April 2023 , when tensions between the military and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces erupted into open conflict . The violence has been marked by numerous atrocities , including ethnically motivated killings and sexual violence . The International Criminal Court is investigating allegations of war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> Earlier this week , a United Nations-backed global hunger-monitoring group warned that famine is spreading across Sudan , with millions of civilians at risk .
