<h> According to medics , Israeli strikes on Gaza killed at least ten people , including five journalists . <h> Israeli strikes on Gaza killed at least 10 persons , including five journalists , and injured over a dozen others , according to Gaza health authorities ' medics , as reported by Reuters . <p> According to the doctors , an Israeli airstrike on a home in the Zeitoun neighborhood of Gaza City killed five persons and injured twenty more . They cautioned that since many individuals were still buried beneath the debris , the death toll might increase . <p> According to the enclave 's health authorities , five journalists were murdered in a different event when their car was hit near Al-Awda Hospital in Nuseirat , central Gaza . The journalists were employed by the television network Al-Quds Al-Youm . <p> According to local reporters and Palestinian media , the car was designated as a media van and was utilized by reporters to cover events from inside the Nuseirat camp and hospital . <p> The Israeli army claimed that members of the Islamic Jihad group were inside the car when its air force launched a " targeted attack . " <p> Israel is escalating attacks during the night , according to Gaza 's civil defense.Israeli forces have increased their strikes on civilian dwellings across the Gaza Strip in recent days , " especially at night , " according to a statement released by Gaza 's civil defense on Telegram , according to Al Jazeera . <p> According to the report , the attacks are happening quite near to one another , making it difficult for the civil defense to react quickly . <p> The report claimed that this has " caused an increase in the number of victims and martyrs . " <p> The announcement was made the day after Israeli forces killed a medic and his kid in an attack that destroyed the civil defense headquarters in Gaza City . <p> Israel 's continuous siege is also causing fuel and equipment shortages for the organization , which is in charge of emergency services and rescue efforts throughout the Gaza Strip . <h> PKKH ( Pakistan Ka Khuda Hafiz ) is a respected Pakistani news website offering accurate and comprehensive coverage of politics , culture , and global affairs . With a commitment to objective reporting and insightful analysis , PKKH provides readers with a well-rounded perspective on current events . The platform encourages community engagement and leverages digital technology to reach a wide audience , contributing to informed discussions and awareness .
