<p> A displaced Palestinian , Hatem Kullab , living in makeshift tents in blood-stained Gaza , endures unimaginable hardships . He walks nearly eight kilometers to obtain a loaf of bread from overcrowded bakeries , where scarce edibles are sold at skyrocketing prices . His ordeal is not an isolated story -- it mirrors the collective pain and anguish of over two million besieged souls . <p> Every man , woman , and child in Gaza roams the ruined and blood stained streets , desperately searching for a morsel of food or a drop of water to sustain life . Their untold misery and agony defies description . <p> Under relentless assaults by the Zionist death forces , Gaza is besieged and surrounded . Well-fed , heavily armed soldiers and lethal tanks occupy every devastated neighborhood , every street , and every corner . <p> Palestinians are stripped of their dignity , honour , and life itself , forced into an endless cycle of fear , chaos , and despair . In this desolation , they are made to flee from one crumbled shelter to another , struggling for mere survival . Even in their flight , they are tactically cornered and trapped , destined to face death . <p> The so-called evacuation orders issued by the Israeli Defense Forces are not a measure of safety but a calculated trap designed to massacre unarmed civilians . Death looms as an ever-present shadow , claiming hundreds of lives daily and reducing entire families to memories . <p> Apartments , schools , hospitals , and makeshift shelters are reduced to rubble in an instant leaving behind only the haunting silence of lives erased . Palestinians are being perished through bombs , bullets , hunger , thirst , heat , disease , and trauma . <p> This relentless bloodshed , fueled by advanced American weapons and precision technology , unfolds in full view of a largely indifferent world . The apathy of the international community and the Muslim world compounds the tragedy . Since October 7 , 2023 , the Zionists warlords have been waging a merciless war of annihilation . <p> After more than 14 months , the objective of defeating Hamas and releasing hostages remains a distant dream . Hamas 's leadership , fighters , and tunnels have been obliterated . Now , one must ask : who remains to be killed ? What purpose does this unending destruction serve ? How many more innocent children and women must die ? <p> The Zionist forces ' insatiable thirst for leveling Gaza , killing generations , and erasing the future of Palestinian children leaves behind nothing but a trail of devastation . What else do they seek to achieve with their arrogance and firepower ? The Zionist warlords remain weak and defeated in their objectives . <p> Their precision technology and deadly strikes and war victories have failed to break the indomitable spirit , courage , and resilience of the oppressed . <p> In fact , Israeli atrocities , barbarism and inhuman cruelties out to destroy generations and wipe out towns and settlements have only strengthened and furthered the cause of the Hamas ideology . The Gaza may lie in ruins but the just cause and spirit of its brave and fearless sons and daughters survive and lives on . The charisma and cause of Hamas remains triumphant even in ruins of Gaza <p> Defiant and intransigent Israel is now left with no option but to seek peace through diplomacy and negotiation . Force , coercion , and firepower can not browbeat Palestinians into submission . <p> Diplomacy and compromise are the only viable paths to ensure Israel 's safe boundaries and peace for its citizens . History offers valuable lessons : lofty objectives have been achieved through dialogue and understanding . <p> The Camp David Accords , where Sinai was returned to Egypt in exchange for peace guarantees , serve as a testament to the possibility of peaceful resolution . Israel 's peace treaty with Jordan also exemplifies the benefits of give-and-take agreements . <p> Rather than funneling billions of dollars into expanding arsenals and waging wars in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria , Israel should reprioritize its focus on improving the lives of its citizens , including nearly the two million vulnerable people living below the poverty line . It must realize the bitter truth that war itself is defeat and destruction and that peace , prosperity , and stability are worth far more than destruction and stagnation . <p> The world is bright , the future promising , and the sun shines equally on the oppressor and the oppressed . By abandoning war tactics , invasions , incursions and land grabs , Israel can defeat the war-mongering mindset of the U.S. military-industrial complex , as for them , every war and calamity is a profit-making opportunity . <p> Whether in Ukraine , Gaza , or Iran , every moment of war enriches these profiteers . This cycle must be broken by upholding the banner of peace . <p> It is high time Israel is made to see reason and logic , to end this genocidal horror , and to embrace peace through diplomacy and mutual understanding . The global conscience demands an end to this madness . It is imperative to honor the cries for a free Palestine , respect the 1967 borders , and grant Palestinians their inalienable right to live with dignity , honour , and peace . <p> Only through dialogue and understanding can lasting peace be achieved -- a peace that secures the future for all , including the children of Gaza and Israel alike
