<h> Iran uses accounts in major UK banks to bypass sanctions <p> Tehran , Feb 5 : Two of the UK 's largest banks , Lloyds Bank and Santander UK , were involved in an Iran-backed sanctions evasion scheme involving money transfers through a series of front entities , the Financial Times newspaper reported on Monday , citing bank transaction documents . Iran 's state-owned Petrochemical Commercial Company ( PCC ) and its UK subsidiary have been under US sanctions since November 2018 , but this has not stopped the UK branch from operating , the newspaper reported . The company 's eponymous subsidiary used various front entities to receive payments from Iranian front companies in China while hiding its true ownership , the report said . One such entity called Pisco UK used a business account at Santander UK and was officially owned by a British citizen , but was controlled by the PCC , according to leaked files from the Iranian opposition website WikiIran . UK company records showed that the citizen was a director of PCC UK and corresponded with an office in Tehran . The same was true of Lloyds Bank , whose services were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also considered a pro-Iranian front in the UK . The findings came to light amid ongoing US and UK strikes on Yemen 's Ansar Allah movement , also known as the Houthis , who are believed to be backed by Iran , the newspaper reported . Meanwhile , the United States accuses Iran 's PCC , the owner of the UK-based front entities , of raising money for an elite branch of the Iranian armed forces , the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) , and working to raise money for Iranian proxy militias . The Houthis vowed in November to attack any ships associated with Israel until it halts military actions in the Gaza Strip . This led US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin to announce the creation of a multinational operation to secure navigation in the Red Sea . The United States and the United Kingdom later launched major strikes against Houthi positions in a bid to degrade the rebels ' ability to target commercial vessels . ( UNI )
