<h> Global spread of ongoing conflicts <p> Harsha Kakar Two major confrontations have dominated as also divided the planet in the past year . The first is the ongoing Russo-Ukraine conflict while the second is the Israel-Gaza war . Like all conflicts , both have had their impact . In both cases , it has been the common citizen who continues to suffer . The UN , created to stop wars , has once again failed , as nations which form the core of the UN Security Council are playing sides , thereby vetoing proposals seeking an end to hostilities . Ukraine has become a western proxy to drag Russia into a long-drawn conflict . In the Middle East , it is shadow boxing between the US and Israel on one side and Iran , alongside its proxies , on the other . While the west does not want to engage Russia directly in Europe , similarly , in the Middle East , Israel and the US are avoiding a conflict with Iran , preferring to counter its proxies . Both conflicts have had an impact on the rest of the world , mainly weaker nations . Russia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and indirect providers to poorer nations of the planet . With Russia blocking Ukraine from using its Black Sea ports there were concerns on shortfalls and rising prices . Currently , by bypassing the Black Sea , this has been overcome to some extent . Further , US sanctions on Russia did initially impact global oil and gas prices but these were suitably bypassed by nations , including India . Europe , which imposed sanctions on Russia , alongside the US , continued its import of oil from Russia , processed in Indian refineries . The western plan to destroy the Russian economy and bring about a regime change appears to have failed . Currently , the war remains confined to the region , with little scope of expanding . Its front has stalled , while missiles and drones continue being employed to target cities killing innocents . Resolution of the conflict is dependent on how long the west will continue to pump Ukraine with weapons . The Gaza conflict may possibly have an even greater global impact . The destruction of Gaza to rout the Hamas has been unprecedented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Reconstruction will be an expensive proposition as also would be its ultimate resolution . With Israel hesitant to accept a ' two state solution , ' proposed by many nations , options appear to be receding . Israel 's desire to control Gaza with a proxy government is unacceptable to most Arab states . Israel 's own proposals for a truce , including movement of Hamas leaders out of Gaza , in return for release of hostages , has been rejected by Hamas . The war has also slowed down Israel 's attempts to improve ties with Arab states . The conflict only appears to be expanding , with the entry of Iran 's regional proxies . The joining in of Houthis from Yemen , targeting shipping in the Red Sea , has almost halted oil tankers from exploiting the Suez Canal to save distance and cost . This is bound to impact global oil prices . The Houthis have announced that their action is in support of Gazans and would continue till Israel stops its offensive . The US and UK have retaliated militarily against the Houthis prompting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battle . In Iraq , US bases are being hit by missiles fired by Iran funded groups , against which Washington has begun to retaliate , angering Iraq . The indirect participation of Iran is evident with Israel targeting camps of Iran 's Islamic Revolutionary Guards in Syria and Lebanon . Hezbollah has thus far hesitated joining the conflict directly , though it occasionally launches missiles and rockets . It appears to be unwilling to being dragged into a war which could impede its military capability and control over Lebanon . Israel has also avoided directly targeting Hezbollah fighters there by inciting them to open a new front . The rest of the Middle East watches silently , hoping the conflict does not blow over and engulf the region . The recent Iranian missile strikes into Iraq and Syria were also an extension of the conflict . Iran claimed it had targeted an Israeli ' spy hub ' in Iraq and ISIS positions in Syria . In reality , the strikes were a warning for the US , which has bases in Iraq as also Israel , which borders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attack on Pakistan and its retaliation were possibly a decoy as only the Baloch were killed . Iran has realized that this is the right time to speed up its enrichment of Uranium and is doing so . The involvement of the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) and International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) also adds to the global expansion of the conflict . In March last year , the ICC issued an arrest warrant for the Russian President , Vladimir Putin , on charges of ' unlawfully deporting Ukrainian children . ' Russia is not party to the ICC and hence the warrant has little meaning . The US and Ukraine welcomed the ICC decision . It is unlikely that the warrant would ever be implemented . In the Israel-Gaza conflict , South Africa has filed a case in the ICJ accusing Israel of committing genocide . While the conclusion of the case would take years , the ICJ has issued its ruling on emergency measures as requested by South Africa . South Africa 's initiative was appreciated by the OIC ( Organization of Islamic Cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its allies and Israel criticized South Africa , claiming Hamas should have been sanctioned for genocide.The ICJ ruling mentioned , among others , that Israel must take steps to prevent acts of genocide in Gaza , but stopped short of ordering a ceasefire . While Ukrainian refugees were welcomed in Europe , no nation offered to accept Gazans displaced by the Israeli invasion . Even its neighbours , Egypt and Jordan sealed their borders to prevent an inflow . Global protests for or against Russia were hardly visible . For the world this was a localized conflict . However , Europe and US cities witnessed large scale support for Hamas and Gazans , as also demanding an end to the Israeli invasion . On the contrary , protests against the actions of Hamas were relatively few . This is because the Israel-Hamas war has been viewed from the angle of a Jewish-Islamic conflict as compared to the Russo-Ukraine war , where both sides are largely orthodox Christian . The author is Major General ( Retd )
