<p> ROME , Feb 15:Israel has formally complained after a senior Vatican official spoke of " carnage " in Gaza and what he termed a disproportionate Israeli military operation following the October 7 Hamas attacks . The Israeli Embassy to the Holy See called the comments by Cardinal Pietro Parolin , the Vatican secretary of state , " deplorable . " In a statement Wednesday , the embassy said Parolin had n't considered what it called the relevant facts in judging the legitimacy of Israel 's actions . Speaking Monday at a reception , Parolin condemned the October 7 Hamas attacks against Israel and all forms of antisemitism . But he questioned Israel 's claim to be acting in self-defence by inflicting " carnage " on Gaza . " Israel 's right to self-defense has been invoked to justify that this operation is proportional , but with 30,000 dead , it 's not , " he said . Israel has objected previously to the Vatican position on the war , including when Pope Francis spoke about " terrorism . " Francis , who speaks daily via video conference to a Gaza parish housing Palestinian civilians , has since tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter to the Jewish people in which he reaffirmed the special relationship between Christians and Jews . In its statement complaining about Parolin , the Israeli Embassy accused Hamas of turning the Gaza Strip into " the biggest terrorist base ever seen . " It said Israeli armed forces were acting according to international law and said the proportion of Palestinian civilians to " terrorists " killed was less than in other conflicts in Syria , Iraq and Afghanistan . But in a front-page editorial Thursday in the Vatican newspaper L'Osservatore Romano titled " Stop the Carnage , " Vatican editorial director Andrea Tornielli doubled down on the Vatican position . Tornielli quoted a Rome-based Holocaust survivor , Edith Bruck , who has been highly critical of the Israeli government 's response , which she has blamed for the rise in antisemitic acts against Jews around the world . " No one can define what is happening in the Strip as collateral damage ' from the fight against terrorism , " Tornielli wrote . " The right of defence , the right of Israel to ensure justice for those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carnage . " ( AP )
