<h> Palestinian death toll in Gaza surpasses 30,000 as strike kills and wounds dozens waiting for aid <p> RAFAH , Feb 29:The Gaza Health Ministry said on Thursday that over 30,000 Palestinians have been killed since the start of the Israel-Hamas war nearly five months ago , as a strike on a crowd of people waiting for aid in Gaza City killed and wounded dozens , according to local hospital officials . Gaza City and the rest of northern Gaza were the first targets of Israel 's air , sea and ground offensive launched in response to Hamas ' October 7 attack . The area has suffered widespread devastation and has been largely isolated from the rest of the territory for months , with little aid entering . Aid groups say it has become nearly impossible to deliver humanitarian assistance in most of Gaza , in part because of the crowds of desperate people who overwhelm aid convoys . The UN says a quarter of Gaza 's 2.3 million Palestinians face starvation . Dr. Jadallah Shafai , the head of the nursing department at Shifa Hospital , told the Al Jazeera network that around 50 people were killed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Al Jazeera ran footage showing several bodies and injured people arriving at Shifa . Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , the director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital , said it had received at least 10 bodies and 160 wounded people . Fares Afana , the head of the ambulance service at Kamal Adwan , said medics arriving at the scene found " dozens or hundreds " lying on the ground . He said there were not enough ambulances to collect all the dead and wounded and that some were being brought to hospitals on donkey carts . Dr , Mohammad Salha , the acting director of the Al-Awda Hospital , said it received 90 wounded and three dead , who were transferred to Kamal Adwan . " We expect a rise in the number killed , " he said . " There are many wounded still at the reception and the emergency room . " He said Al-Awda is largely out of commission , with no electricity and the operating room running on battery power with only hours left . Gaza 's health sector is under severe strain nearly five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was looking into the reports . Gaza 's Health Ministry did not immediately provide an official toll from the strike , but it said the Palestinian death toll from the war has climbed to 30,035 , with another 70,457 wounded . It does not differentiate between civilians and combatants in its figures but says women and children make up around two-thirds of those killed . The ministry , which is part of the Hamas-run government , maintains detailed records of casualties . Its counts from previous wars have largely matched those of the UN , independent experts and even Israel 's own tallies . The Hamas attack into southern Israel that ignited the war killed 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and the militants seized around 250 hostages . Hamas is still holding around 130 hostages , a quarter of whom are believed to be dead , after releasing most of the others during a weeklong cease-fire in November . ( AP )
