<p> Humza Yousaf , Scotland 's first Asian and Muslim leader , has announced his decision to step away from front-line politics in the next Scottish elections set for May 2026 , also sounding a warning about the growing political sway of billionaire Elon Musk . <p> In a letter to his Glasgow Pollok constituency party , Yousaf , 39 , revealed his plans to resign as an MSP after 15 years in Holyrood . <p> The former first minister , who has been serving as a backbencher since resigning from his leadership role in April , expressed hope that his achievements would inspire young people from diverse backgrounds to pursue public service . <p> His resignation has renewed speculation about the future of his predecessor , Nicola Sturgeon , who has yet to decide whether to run in the 2026 elections . <p> Sturgeon has confirmed plans to submit nomination papers , but many believe she may also opt to leave Holyrood rather than remain on the backbenches . <p> In an interview with journalist Mehdi Hasan , Yousaf issued a stark warning about Musk 's growing political influence , particularly in UK and US elections . <p> Yousaf accused Musk , who owns the popular social media platform X , of " amplifying disinformation " and potentially bankrolling far-right movements , including the UK 's Reform Party . <p> " Alarm bells ought to be ringing right up and down British politics about the threat posed by Musk , " Yousaf said , referencing reports that the tech billionaire has been funding Donald Trump 's election campaigns in the US and is seeking to exert similar influence in the UK . <p> Yousaf cited the summer 's race riots in Southport as evidence of Musk 's alleged involvement in inciting unrest . " He amplified disinformation that undoubtedly lit the fuse for some of the race riots we saw , " he claimed . <p> Musk 's alleged proximity to power , including his stay at Trump 's Mar-a-Lago and involvement in key US political appointments , drew sharp criticism . " If he is trying to emulate that influence in the next UK general election , that should ring alarm bells , " Yousaf added . <p> During the same interview , he delivered a searing critique of the UK government 's foreign policy , particularly its stance on the Gaza conflict . <p> He accused the Labour-led government of complicity in what he called a genocide , citing the UK 's provision of arms and military equipment to Israel . <p> " How can they not be complicit ? " he asked . " We have an Israeli government that has killed at least 45,000 people . The person who leads that government has an ICC arrest warrant for war crimes and crimes against humanity . And yet , astonishingly , the UK government is sending weapons , arms , and components for F-35 jets . "
