<p> DUBAI : 2025 will be a year of reckoning for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Iran . The Israeli leader is set to cement his strategic goals : tightening his military aggression over Gaza , thwarting Iran 's nuclear ambitions , and capitalising on the dismantling of alleged Tehran 's allies -- Palestinian Hamas , Lebanon 's Hezbollah and the removal of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad . <p> Assad 's collapse , killing of the top leaders of Hamas and Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure mark a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu . <p> Netanyahu is poised to zero in on Iran 's nuclear ambitions and missile programme , applying an unyielding focus to dismantling and neutralising these strategic threats to Israel . Iran , Middle East observers say , faces a stark choice : either continue its nuclear enrichment programme or scale back its atomic activities and agree to negotiations . <p> " Iran is very vulnerable to an Israeli attack , particularly against its nuclear programme , " said Joost R. Hiltermann , Middle East and North Africa Programme Director of the International Crisis Group . " I would n't be surprised if Israel did it , but that does n't get rid of Iran . " " If they ( Iranians ) do not back down , Trump and Netanyahu might strike , as nothing now prevents them , " said Palestinian analyst Ghassan al-Khatib , referring to President-elect Donald Trump . Khatib argued that the Iranian leadership , having demonstrated pragmatism in the past , may be willing to compromise to avert a military confrontation . <p> Trump , who withdrew from a 2015 agreement between Iran and six world powers aimed at curbing Tehran 's nuclear goals , is likely to step up sanctions on Iran 's oil industry , despite calls to return to negotiations from critics who see diplomacy as a more effective long-term policy . <p> Defining legacy <p> Amid the turmoil of Iran and Gaza , Netanyahu 's long-running corruption trial , which resumed in December , will also play a defining role in shaping his legacy . For the first time since the outbreak of the Gaza crisis in 2023 , Netanyahu took the stand in proceedings that have bitterly divided Israelis . <p> With 2024 coming to an end , the Israeli prime minister will likely agree to sign a ceasefire accord with Hamas to halt the 14-month-old aggression in Gaza and free Israeli hostages held in the enclave , according to sources close to the negotiations . But Gaza would stay under Israeli military control in the absence of a post-war US plan for Israel to cede power to the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) , which Netanyahu rejects . Arab states have shown little inclination to press Israel to compromise or push the decaying PA to overhaul its leadership to take over . <p> " Israel will remain in Gaza militarily in the foreseeable future because any withdrawal carries the risk of Hamas reorganising . Israel believes that the only way to maintain the military gains is to stay in Gaza , " Khatib told Reuters . <p> For Netanyahu , such a result would mark a strategic victory , consolidating a status quo that aligns with his vision : Preventing Palestinian statehood while ensuring Israel 's long-term control over Gaza , the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- territories internationally recognised as integral to a future Palestinian state . <p> The Gaza crisis erupted when Hamas stormed into Israel on October 7 , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . Israel responded with an air and land offensive that has killed 45,000 people , health authorities there say , displaced 1.2 million and left much of the enclave in ruins . <p> While the ceasefire pact would bring an immediate end to the Gaza hostilities , it would not address the deeper , decades-old Palestinian-Israeli conflict , Arab and Western officials say . <p> On the ground , prospects for a Palestinian state , an option repeatedly ruled out by Netanyahu 's government , have become increasingly unattainable , with Israeli settler leaders optimistic that Trump will align closely with their views . <p> A surge in settler violence and the increasing confidence of the settler movement - highway billboards in some West Bank areas bear the message in Arabic " No Future in Palestine " - reflect a growing squeeze on Palestinians . <p> Even if the Trump administration were to push for an end to the conflict , " any resolution would be on Israel 's terms , " said Hiltermann of the Crisis Group . <p> " It 's over when it comes to a Palestinian state , but the Palestinians are still there , " he said . In Trump 's previous term , Netanyahu secured several diplomatic wins , including the " Deal of the Century , " a U.-backed peace plan which Trump floated in 2020 to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The plan , if implemented , marks a dramatic shift in US policy and international agreements by overtly aligning with Israel and deviating sharply from a long-standing land-for-peace framework that has historically guided negotiations . <p> It would allow Israel to annex vast stretches of land in the occupied West Bank , including Israeli settlements and the Jordan Valley . It would also recognise Jerusalem as the " undivided capital of Israel " - effectively denying Palestinian claims to East Jerusalem as their capital , a central aspiration in their statehood goals and in accordance with UN resolutions . <p> Across the border from Israel , Syria stands at a critical juncture following the overthrow of Assad by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) rebel forces , led by Ahmad al-Sharaa , better known as Abu Mohammed al-Golani . <p> Golani now faces the monumental task of consolidating control over a fractured Syria , where the military and police force have collapsed . HTS has to rebuild from scratch , securing borders and maintaining internal stability against threats from remnants of the Assad regime , and other adversaries . <p> The greatest fear among Syrians and observers alike is whether HTS , once linked to al-Qaeda but now presenting itself as a Syrian nationalist force to gain legitimacy . <p> The group 's ability - or failure - to navigate this balance will shape the future of Syria , home to diverse communities of Sunnis , Shi'ites , Alawites , Kurds , Druze , and Christians .
