<h> Facing human suffering is painful . But we must , especially in the case of Gaza , because we Americans are partially responsible for it . <p> The US news media flits from story to story , seemingly incapable of sustaining attention on events that require it . The nightmare of Gaza which received in-depth treatment for over a year has now faded from view , eclipsed by other dramatic developments in the Arab East . <p> In recent weeks , news out of the Middle East has been dominated by Israel 's devastating attacks on Lebanon and the now Israeli-enforced " ceasefire . " Now , the major reporting has turned to the al Qaeda spin-off , Hayat Tahrir al Sham , capturing major Syrian cities . While these developments are , of course , consequential , the continuing war on Gaza and its lingering wounds deserve our attention . <p> Against this backdrop , it was notable that on a single day this week the New York Times carried three stories , filling a full page and a half , on the continuing nightmare in Gaza . One was on Amnesty International 's new report charging Israel with genocide in Gaza , and another on a deadly Israeli strike on a " humanitarian zone " in Gaza . The largest was : " For the disabled , life in Gaza was always a struggle . Now it 's agony . " Combined , the three describe the horrors of Gaza 's last 14 months , continuing bombings on displaced Palestinians , and the agonizing future before them . <p> The Amnesty International story was significant for several reasons . First , it 's the world 's preeminent human rights organization . When I served as a presidential appointee to a US commission focused on religious freedom , our annual reports and investigations relied heavily on Amnesty 's work , as does the State Department . Whether dealing with countries in Africa , Asia , or the Arab World , attention is given to Amnesty 's assessments . Countries are routinely denounced for abusive behaviors with the notation " as Amnesty International has reported , " with one exception , of course -- Israel . Amnesty 's work everywhere is revered , but when it 's about Israel , it 's reviled . <p> It 's therefore quite consequential that Amnesty boldly declared that " Israel committed , and is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . " They continue : " Israel 's unlawful conduct throughout its military offensive , resulted in unprecedented harm to Palestinians in Gaza that resulted in the massive scale of killings and serious injuries over a short period of time . " <p> Responding to these charges , the Israelis have followed their familiar script -- " lie , deny , and obfuscate " -- and ultimately falling back on charging their accusers with bias . Interestingly , to date , there 's been little or no response from officials in Washington . That was not the case back in 2022 when Amnesty International and another prominent human rights organization , Human Rights Watch , issued reports finding that Israel had imposed an apartheid system on the Palestinian people under their control . Congress and the White House were quick to denounce both human rights groups -- upon whom they rely so heavily for information on other countries . <p> Notably , neither the Washington Post nor the New York Times even carried the story about the apartheid charges . This genocide report , on the other hand , has received major coverage in both papers . The story of the Israeli airstrike in al Mawasi , in a humanitarian shelter zone where Palestinians ordered by Israel to evacuate other areas were supposed to be safe , was both cruel and deadly . Bombings of this sort are a daily occurrence , but rarely receive coverage . <p> Most disturbing was the piece about the plight of the disabled in Gaza . Before this war disabled persons in Gaza numbered 56,000 ; that 's surely increased significantly in the past year . The Times story includes pictures of children without limbs lacking wheelchairs , rehabilitation facilities , or surgery when needed . It describes in detail the agony of a disabled Palestinian in Gaza who simply needs a bathroom though none can accommodate a wheelchair . <p> The faces of these children in the rubble of destroyed neighborhoods are heartbreaking . They are innocents without a future . Living in crowded tent areas through winter or in the remains of buildings on a bombed-out street -- this is life for hundreds of thousands of Palestinian children . Facing human suffering is painful . But we must , especially in the case of Gaza , because we Americans are partially responsible for it . <p> Just because it 's disappeared from the front pages does n't mean it 's not happening . It is ongoing . So it 's important that the New York Times brought it home to us one day this week .
