<h> Hafiz Naeem urges PTI founder to denounce Israel <p> ISLAMABAD : Hafiz Naeem Ur Rehman , the Emir of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan , called on Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( PTI ) founder , Imran Khan , to publicly declare that he does not recognize Israel , ARY News reported . <p> Speaking at the Solidarity with Palestine Million March on Sunday at Jinnah Avenue , New Blue Area , Hafiz Naeem criticised the prevailing political system , stating that whenever a government is ousted or takes power , they seek support from the United States ( U.S ) . <p> He also pointed out that this trend extends to those who are imprisoned or those seeking release , highlighting the tendency to seek approval from the U.S. for such matters . He specifically urged Imran Khan to show solidarity with Hamas and publicly denounce the state of Israel . <p> The JI supremo further stated that while the U.S. possesses thousands of missiles , it continues to impose sanctions on Pakistan 's missile technology . <p> He emphasised that the nation had sacrificed to develop nuclear weapons , which are vital for the protection of both Pakistan and the Muslim Ummah . He criticised political parties that seek approval from the U.S. to imprison and release individuals , highlighting the need to ensure democratic freedoms for the people . <p> Hafiz Naeem also condemned the U.S. as a " terrorist nation " and argued that Pakistan could never achieve prosperity while under America 's influence . He pointed out that the U.S. labels those who resist its imperialism as terrorists and imposes its own version of democracy . <p> He further stated that Israel could not fight groups like Hamas , as it targets innocent children , and that Israel 's expansionist goals now reach beyond Palestine , with plans involving Syria , Lebanon , and even Medina . <p> The Jamaat-e-Islami leader referenced Pakistan 's founder , Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah , who had described Israel as an illegitimate child of the West . " He also expressed his support for the oppressed Palestinian people , noting that Gaza faces harsher cold conditions than Islamabad , with two million people living in camps . <p> He condemned Israel 's actions as genocide , having killed 46,000 people , and criticised the U.S. for supporting this " open terrorism . " Hafiz Naeem pointed out that the indifference of most Muslim countries , except a few , towards the Israeli-Palestinian conflict further strengthens Israel 's position . <p> He concluded by reaffirming that Israel can not stand against the resistance of Muslim fighters , adding that Israel 's aggression would eventually be defeated . <h> ABOUT US <p> ARY NEWS brings you 24/7 Live Streaming , Headlines , Bulletins , Talk Shows , Infotainment , and much more . Watch minute-by-minute updates of current affairs and happenings from Pakistan and all around the world !
