<p> Gaza Strip , Palestinian Territories - An Israeli military raid targeting Hamas militants has forced a major hospital in northern Gaza out of service and led to the detention of its director , the WHO and health officials said Saturday . The assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital has rendered the facility " useless " , further worsening Gaza 's severe health crisis , the Palestinian territory 's health officials said . The World Health Organisation said the operation had put the " last major health facility in north Gaza out of service " . " Initial reports indicate that some key departments were severely burnt and destroyed during the raid , " it added in a statement on X. The WHO said 60 health workers and 25 patients in critical condition , including some on ventilators , reportedly remained in the hospital . Patients in moderate to severe condition were forced to evacuate to the destroyed , non-functioning Indonesian Hospital , the UN health agency said , adding it was " deeply concerned for their safety " . <p> Hamas-run Gaza 's health ministry reported that Israeli forces had detained Kamal Adwan 's director , Hossam Abu Safiyeh , along with several medical staff members . AFP was unable to independently verify whether Abu Safiyeh had been detained , but multiple attempts to reach him were unsuccessful . Gaza 's civil defence agency said Abu Safiyeh was held alongside its north Gaza chief , Ahmed Hassan al-Kahlout . The Israeli military did not comment on the detentions . One of the Gazans evacuated from the hospital , who asked to be identified only as Mohammad for security reasons , told AFP some evacuees were interrogated about Hamas . " As we began to exit , the army asked all young men to take off their clothes and walk outside the hospital , " said Mohammad , whose brother was a patient there . <p> " They ( soldiers ) took tens of young men , as well as physicians and patients , to an unknown place ... The young men were interrogated , they were asked about resistance fighters , Hamas and weapons . " <p> Ammar al-Barsh , a resident of Jabalia where the military has focused its assault in recent weeks , said the raid on Kamal Adwan and its environs had left dozens of homes in the area in ruins . " The situation is catastrophic , there is no medical service , no ambulances and no civil defence in the north , " Barsh , 50 , told AFP . The army " continues to raid the Kamal Adwan Hospital and the surrounding houses , and we hear gunfire from Israeli drones and artillery shelling " , he added .
