<p> President Bola Tinubu , on Monday in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia , called for an end to Israeli aggression in Gaza , warning that " the conflict in Palestine has persisted for far too long , inflicting immeasurable suffering . " Addressing the extraordinary Arab-Islamic Summit , which was convened to address the current situation in the Middle East , President Tinubu expressed deep concern about the humanitarian conditions in Gaza . The one-day summit was a follow-up to the Riyadh summit last year and was attended by Heads of State and Government of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) and the League of Arab States . Reiterating Nigeria 's call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , President Tinubu affirmed the country 's support for a two-state solution where both Israelis and Palestinians can coexist in security and dignity . He noted that this solution remained a viable part to lasting peace in the region . " The conflict in Palestine has persisted for far too long , inflicting immeasurable suffering on countless lives . " As representatives of nations that value justice , dignity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral obligation to collectively bring about an immediate end to this conflict . " It is not enough to issue empty condemnations . The world must work towards an end to Israeli aggression in Gaza , which has persisted for far too long . " No political aim , no military strategy , and no security concern should come at the expense of so many innocent lives , " he said . The Nigerian leader called on parties in the conflict in the Middle East to respect the principles of proportionality and the basic rights of civilians , consistent with global legal and diplomatic frameworks . " In a rules-based international order , States have the right of self-defence . But self defence must take proportionality into account , in line with global legal , diplomatic -- and moral -- frameworks . " An entire civilian population , their dreams and futures , can not be dismissed as collateral , " he said . Explaining Nigeria 's principled and consistent stance on the two-state solution , President Tinubu noted that it stands as a beacon of hope , representing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It is not just a diplomatic article of faith ; it is a vision grounded in the principles of equality and mutual recognition . " Achieving this vision requires a commitment to dialogue and respect for history . We all know this conflict did not begin on October 7 in 2023 . It can only be resolved through principled compromise , based on appreciation of the proper context . " This conflict , in the cradle of history , is so visceral that the ripples of division spread far and quickly . The corrosive impact of the images of endless violence , repeated on a billion smart phones around the world is huge . We need to find new pathways to peace , without delay , " he said . The Nigerian leader commended King Salman of Saudi Arabia and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for convening the summit , describing it as a vital opportunity to renew diplomatic efforts and work toward a sustainable peace . He assured that Nigeria , given its own experiences , would continue to support international efforts that advance peace and stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestically and regionally , have taught us that identity politics are no substitute for respecting the nuances of diversity , " he said . According to President Tinubu " the path to reconciliation may be fraught with challenges , but it is through honest conversation that we can foster understanding . " The international community has the opportunity to bring to bear new thinking on this most relentless challenge . " It is our duty to engage in this dialogue with sincerity and resolve , recognising the complexities that each side faces . " President Tinubu called for the establishment of a secretariat to implement the resolutions of the Summit . He urged the leaders to mandate a select group of Heads of Government to canvass support globally and oversee the implementation of the Summit resolutions . These heads would provide regular reports to a joint OIC and Arab League leadership until permanent peace is achieved in the Middle East . In his opening remarks , Saudi Arabia 's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman condemned Israeli actions in Gaza and Lebanon , including the targeting of civilians and the continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli ban on the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees ( UNRWA ) from delivering relief aid to Palestinians and the displacement of Lebanese people . He emphasised the importance of preserving Lebanon 's sovereignty and territorial integrity . The Crown Prince highlighted Saudi Arabia 's role in promoting Palestinian statehood based on the 1967 borders , mentioning international recognition and the establishment of a Global Coalition with the European Union and Norway . He urged more states to join the Global Coalition .
