<h> LATEST ARTICLES <p> Whenever I 'm trying to write a column on some particularly acerbic topic , I usually do a Google search looking for background information , especially if the topic is " toxic " and I may end up " on the wrong side " of public sentiment . <p> After watching the Liberal leadership race close last Sunday and Mark Carney being proclaimed as the next Prime Minister of Canada , I wanted to know just how many Canadians were tuned into the event , thus giving me some idea as to just how concerned Canadians about Trump deciding to use Canada 's leadership for political target practice . Guess what : all I got were rehashes of the race itself -- and a lesson as to why newspaper editors sensationalize any event in order to get readership -- in this case , by describing Carney 's win as a " landslide " . <p> Personally , I had Carney winning by over 80 per cent on the first ballot . Why were so many pollsters " surprised " by this margin when you consider just how much money his campaign raised in the much abbreviated campaign period ? Even the Conservative Party of Canada was n't buying the notion that this was really a " race " for the leadership ; when you 're watching a Raptors game and instead of fast food or online betting ads , you 're suddenly jarred into watching a CPC " expose " of Carney looking evil over a reddish/black background comparing him to Justin . <p> That 's not to say that the Liberals are any better at keeping the " hate " volume turned down ; what was it -- five seconds , maybe , before the Liberal counter-ads made it to the airways , showing CPC wannabe Prime Minister Pierre Poilievre drooling over a " future " map of Canada with his good friend and ideological " thespian " Donald " The Apprentice " Trump after we 'd been " annexed " ? Yup , the election campaign has already started . <p> If that 's not enough , Friday 's Herald published an Op Ed piece written by former Calgary Herald editor Doug Firby gauging the mood at CPC corporate headquarters as " Carney ? Crap " , only to be followed by a " Relax , Jenni . We 've got plenty of fodder to work with . " Firby , at least , still gives token worship to the unattainable idea of " objectivity " reporters are supposed to have by countering with an equivalent observation respecting Liberal sentiment towards Mr. Poilievre ( " Are we sure about this guy ? I mean , he 's a glorified banker " , followed by the rejoinder ridiculing the Conservative 's choice for leader , " Chill ... look at who he 's running against . " ) . <p> Really -- do any of us care to go through this barrage of political savagery for the next few weeks while Carney is getting his ducks in order so he can go to the Governor General and say , " Let 's get it over with " ? We already know Carney 's mindset is functioning properly , as one of his Cabinet choices , former Minister of Finance Chrystia Freeland , probably has Trump drooling spit and inventing profanities , but his Team Canada approach is still being handicapped by forces within Canada 's federal-provincial leadership . For instance , take Ontario premier Doug Ford , who goes from " hero to zero " talking from both sides of his mouth , first by slapping an export tax on electricity being provided to three states , than " postponing " this action when Trump 's Commerce secretary Howard Lutnick invites him to Washington to " talk this thing over " . <p> Lutnick , unfortunately , is about as clueless as to what 's happening internationally as The Apprentice goes about slip-sliding on policy decrees , and ca n't understand why it is that Canada is n't being " reasonable " and expressing " gratitude " for the president " immediately dealing with " the troublesome economic issues facing our two nations . Sorry , Howie ; was that a joke , or are you just trying to work on delivery and sense of humour in addressing listening Canadians ? <p> The most bothersome result of this Liberal v Conservative insult contest is that we now have the spectre of having to recognize that a federal coalition of the NDP , Greens and the Bloc could do a better job of forming a Team Canada and addressing Canadians ' needs rather than our two stale-dated , mirror-gazing parties . Not only is Carney being sabotaged by Ford 's flip-floppery , but premier Danielle Smith is n't even paying minor attention to the 70 per cent of Albertans wanting Canada to have a united front when facing Trump , but is scheduled to deliver a speech and appear with Ben Shapiro at taxpayer expense before PragerU 's followers in Florida come March 27th . Then there 's Scott Moe bemoaning China 's tariffs on Canadian canola , when five years ago , were his party to have begun taking climate change issues more seriously , he could introduced programs for our smaller farmers to diversify into market garden production to take advantage of California 's diminishing influence on this market , while simultaneously supporting food sustainability programs our northern citizens are demanding . <p> What we really need in Prince Albert is to have a politician who is NOT running in our next election such as Charlie Angus , who can speak without being bound by party policy as to the serious danger Trump 's agenda poses to Canadians . Imagine just how much such a speech , presented before a collection of attendees there to listen to ideas instead of regurgitations once embraced past generations , yet now being rendered irrelevant by politicians whose ideas have yet to expand to a twenty-first century mode . <p> I truly would like to see Canadians again embrace some form of a futuristic dream . For instance , what would be " wrong " if we , instead of hyping high-speed rail between The Big Smoke and Quebec , made this a reality for all of Canada ? Our steel mills certainly would n't complain , and just think of the money we 'd save not having to expand our international airports every few years . <p> What SHOULD BE the intent of this mission is to provide an " Average Canadian " with the opportunity to explore this country , its diverse citizenry , and rekindle the reverence we should have for its opportunities for all of us . This idea may sound like suspiciously like Sir John A. MacDonald 's economic intent , but everyone should be entitled to being right about something at least once in their lives in seeing their personal dreams of fulfillment coming true . <p> It did n't take Donald Trump very long to realize that our federal government was n't going to roll over and immediately scream , " Uncle ! " mere seconds after imposing a 25 per cent tariff on Canadian goods and services entering the United States . <p> It was almost worth the bother to watch hard core Justin Trudeau haters cheer at their television sets as he immediately delivered a response that , verbally speaking , could be considered the equivalent of him giving Trump father Pierre 's famous " You 're Number One " salute . After quickly rhyming off a list of American products that would immediately become targets of countervailing duties when imported into Canada ( Florida orange juice , Kentucky bourbon , etc . ) , Trudeau 's threat to introduce further retaliatory actions should Trump 's tariffs remain in place simply left both Trump and in particular Vice President J.D. Vance momentarily speechless as to the rapidity with which Canada committed its unified troops to engage in this economic " war " . <p> Still , even as liquor and beer were being pulled off the shelves of Ontario retailers faster than rum " Mickey 's " on a Maritime provincial election day , Ontario premier Doug Ford was already asking his almost " Where 's Waldo ? " question : How , exactly , does his " friend " Scott Moe intend to respond to this threat coming from Canada 's once-upon-a-time " best friend and neighbour " . <p> As Saskatchewan voters may recall , Moe was but one of several Canadian premiers laughed out of Washington last week when they tried to sit down and reasonably explain the economic reasons as to " why " Trump 's vacuously thought-out tariff imposition plan could force both Canada and the United States economies to implode . Reeling from having been ridiculed by the MAGA hordes feeding Trump 's ego , he returned to Saskatchewan , only to release a somewhat simpering statement to the effect that " Further measures in response to the US tariffs will be announced in the days ahead . " <p> Worried about the perception that Moe 's timidity could be possibly misconstrued by Canadians as not being " onside " with a Team Canada united approach , Ford 's advice to Moe as to how to respond to Trump could just have has easily been drafted by virtually any of the thousands of business managers in the province increasingly worried about how this latest assault upon export commodity pricing could increase our already bloated deficit . <p> Ford 's approach is straightforward enough for even the dumbest of Canadians who think it would be " great " for Canada to become the 51st province ; Americans should -- and must -- " feel the pain " of Canada 's response , and Saskatchewan is in the driver 's seat with its abundant richness in potash and uranium , and the world now increasingly focusing upon obtaining these products to help improve food productivity or enrich the ore that will or is already being used to fuel its nuclear reactors . <p> Even Grant Devine had no problems in reminding Washington free trade rabblerousers who held the high ground when in the early 1980 's complaints were made that the Canadian government was somehow " subsidizing " the potash industry because most of its operations in Saskatchewan were under government control . Miffed at the stupidity of the American complaints , he simply raised the price on potash and dared American free trade arbitrators to do something about it . American farmers made certain that they did n't , and the issue has n't been brought forward since . <p> Even Alberta premier Danielle Smith has succumbed to the realism of Canadians wanting their leaders to tell Trump to stuff his tariffs somewhere less visible to public exposure , as over 70 per cent of Alberta 's population want to see the province in lock step with a Team Canada approach , even if it means supporting Canadian actions espoused by our still annoyingly " preachy " Prime Minister Trudeau and telling the " Take Back Alberta " fanatics who until recently she 'd been quoting chapter and verse from their separatist Bible to take their message elsewhere , at least for the moment . <p> In Prince Albert , our own MP Randy Hoback , and the Conservative Party in general , continue to babble incoherent nonsense complete with fuzzy , photo-edited pictures of current Liberal Party leadership candidate Mark Carney being just another " Trudeau " supporting a carbon tax . <p> Prior to March 4 when Trump issued his tariff proclamation , Hoback was out desperately attempting to " sell " the idea that Canada needed an election more than they did a new " leader " , a word that has no meaning until Carney wins the Liberal leadership race and becomes PM , or perhaps even Chrystia Freeland , a possibility that could conceivably have Trump develop an aneurism . <p> Mr. Hoback might want to try to make the point that Canadians have been expressing a lack of confidence in the government for some time ; however , those alleged inclinations as to public sentiment and substantiated by weirdly out-to-lunch polling numbers favouring the Conservatives to win , an election now would have resulted in a non-response to Trump 's imposition of tariffs , and that is something that the Canadian public does NOT want to see happen -- a point made obvious by the public response to Trudeau 's initial announcement respecting countervailing duties . <p> The spontaneous erosion of Conservative polling numbers following Trudeau 's response to Trump is NOT " the story " here ; our survival as a nation is -- and as long as Conservatives continue to argue to the contrary , their numbers should continue to erode . <p> I have the odd " cracker " friend , most of whom " love " to tell jokes expressing a dislike of anything -- and I do mean " anything " even moderately progressive . For instance , a true friend , now deceased , once asked me if I " knew " the name of the river running along the border between India and China . There is n't one , but I should have seen this coming ; sensing my silence , he answered " the Fraser " -- as in the one flowing through British Columbia . <p> Is this joke really " racist " ? I just love driving people nuts arguing the negativity of such utterances by our redneck brethren ; to me , that " joke " is nothing more than an offsided and rather envious compliment to two of our major immigrant source nations who 've successfully settled in Canada , then combined their purchase of fertile lands with a capacity to utilize learned food sustainability skills to provide us with -- what ? One thing I do know about such provision is that every March you 'll be passing a local gas station somewhere in small town Saskatchewan and there in plain sight is a 5 tonne boxed-up truck selling fresh fruit and vegetables -- LONG before most of us have even put away their snowmobiles . <p> Unfortunately , most " jokes " repeated within the extreme right 's sphere of influence demonstrate fundamental weaknesses in their knowledge , especially when it comes to sexual function or even male-female relationship . For instance , Scott Moe 's original Bill 137 that would have our schools impose restriction of washrooms to the sex student differentiated at birth was just a piece of legislative nonsense . Obviously , everyone in the Sask Party ruling cabal firmly believes that women can not " father " children , which means that they 've definitely never heard of Guevedoces , a condition where a human child having a 5-alpha-reductase deficiency is " born female " , but develops male genitalia at puberty -- that work , by the way . <p> The people we now have representing conservative " values " no longer embracing the true conservatism of a George Will . Instead , it is their intent to humiliate those who disagree with them that binds them in opposition to even the least argumentative of progressive principles such as women 's rights , same-sex marriage , or racial equality . To them , Donald Trump is " correct " in not bothering to argue political semantics ; it 's easier for him to simply tarnish his opponent 's reputation through ridicule and bullying . <p> Our own Conservative MP 's are starting to catch onto this tactic , with as an example our own Randy Hobach 's " Hoback Herald " now regularly leads with NDP leader Jagmeet Singh 's name , followed by Justin Trudeau as our public " enemies " destroying Canada 's international reputation . He can do this simply because few Saskatchewanians will vote " Liberal " and react to Justin as though he were his father , still tossing that " You 're Number One " salute to Prairie farmers . As for the mere mentioning of an NDP-Liberal " conspiratorial government , Conservatives conveniently ignore the fact the NDP 's agreement to cooperate with the Liberals to make Parliament work resulted in the passage of DentaCare , PharmaCare , CERB-related relief programs , and the creation of a national Day of Reconciliation -- all very much appreciated by Canada 's voters . <p> However , if conservatives have to consider contributions to government made by the NDP , their more bellicose right resort to their traditional racist approach , reminding Canadians that that Mr. Singh is a Sikh ; so must -- somehow -- be tied to that group of " terrorists " who 'd planted the bomb that destroyed Air India Flight 182 in June of 1985 . As for their further destroying the reputation of Justin Trudeau , their approach is even more explicit : since the PM was once a drama teacher at an all-girls ' school , maybe those stories of his " admiring " young women students are true , so they 'll just call him " the Gatineau groper " . <p> These sordid attempts by the political right to " authenticate " these images through disinformation campaigns are every bit as sickening as the antics of the Carbon Convoy leadership . However , Trump 's " concerns " regarding Canada are as phony as the man 's own persona . He is threatening to apply a 25 per cent tariff on all Canadian goods by embellishing concerns such as illegal immigrants and drugs ( fentanyl ) entering the USA -- items that our government addressed with former President Biden some time ago . The " Team Canada " that the PM took on these two points gave us a 30 day grace period to prepare for the inevitable , namely the dropping of the second shoe that has already signalled the start of Round Two and tariffs about to become our next reality . <p> We 're spending way too much time believing we ca n't restart negotiations with Trump until the Liberals choose our next PM , probably Mark Carney . Unfortunately , Carney has indicated that he will FIRST dissolve Parliament , win that contest as well , and only then turn to repudiate Trump 's MAGA agenda . BUT -- what IF Carney 's gamble results in a Liberal loss , or Conservatives and Liberals having the face the possibility of leading minority governments , or one of them is replaced as the official Opposition by an NDP buoyed by the leadership of Timmins MP Charlie Angus and Jagmeet Singh taking our fight to the American media , and engendering considerable sympathy from its public , irrespective of party affiliation ? <p> In the absence of an identifiable federal leadership , Canadian voters are quickly reassessing Poilievre as Trudeau 's replacement , as the Conservative campaign message , now called " Canada First " , too eerily mimics Trump 's Project 2025-leaning agenda . As well , Doug Ford , Scott Moe and Danielle Smith continue to fray the fabric of a Team Canada alliance by seeking at least partial exemption of Trump 's tariff plans , only to be ridiculed before their flights home even become airborne . <p> What Canada needs now is leadership based not upon ideology or distrust , but rather democratic principles . Anything less , and we become enslaved by a Trump administration that did n't even have to fire a shot before we capitulated to his demands . <p> Sad , is n't it , that we may again have to go into a federal election cycle where our various platforms will still be based upon our hatred of the ideas of other Canadians with the same concerns as us ? <p> In 2024 there were things that I listened to or read , took note of so as to properly respond to what I believed the comment meant , then finished off by writing a blistering rebuttal of the quotation in case I was rushed to write my column . <p> Fortunately , I never found myself so bereft of material that I needed those rebuttals -- that is , until now . With Captain Chaos now introducing his latest personality makeover at the start of his second four-year World Tour , I 've already reached the point where if anyone even remotely irks me in any way , I 'll start screaming . <p> President Trump 's overly grasping behavioural patterns have left us in a time warp that requires application of a Chinese theory of history claiming that all that is known of worldly events may best be summarized as follows : the graphing of historical events will demonstrate the recycling of such history in about 600 year time span . I love the theory , if for no other reason in that it puts politicians squarely in the middle of my scholarly field of interest -- proof of our very existence being validated by a mathematical certainty . This does n't mean that one has to be overly proficient in understanding mathematics in order to understand human history ; it just validates my contention that an understanding of mathematics somehow has the ability to create a certainty as to one 's survival in life , and has NOTHING to do with whether one is born male , female or binary , worship as a Muslim , Christian , Jewish , Taoist , or atheist , nor is it handicapped by mental or physical disability , OR race . <p> In the evolutionary period of man 's actual " existence " , we 've somehow found the capacity to create masterpieces of mathematical solution . Even in contemporary times such as are governed by our current epoch , John Glenn would never have stepped foot in the Friendship 7 capsule nor become the first American astronaut to orbit Earth had he NOT trusted Katherine Johnson 's mathematical knowledge nor Dorothy Vaughn 's skills in utilizing Johnson 's theories to write a program that would determine whether her fellow black , mid-40 's friend knew what she was talking about . Imagine Trump being president in that era instead of Kennedy , where he could not point towards a just DEI incentive of diversity , equity and inclusion as having given these women their employment opportunities . Add to that list John Nash ( " A Beautiful Mind " , played by Russell Crowe ) , an eventual Nobel laureate whose principle " problem " was n't that he was " white " ; he simply doubted his own existence , was paranoid in the extreme , and was legitimately diagnosed as schizophrenic -- but then I 'd be straying from my discussing this theoretical Chinese history thesis . <p> So , ask me the question : Do I believe this theoretical treatise explaining the limitations of man 's current evolutionary progress , or not ? Sorry , folks , the verdict is still out on that one -- and my doubt is further tarnished by the reality that for virtually every conflict-ridden epoch resulting in war-like behaviour , historians have always been able to postulate the existence of meaningful alternatives to conflict , IF it were n't for the presence of incredibly stupid , greed-driven and narcissistic leaders unwilling to find such peaceful resolution . <p> As a teacher , my only exposure to conflict resolution was in the frequency that I was required to attend a " meeting " in the Principal 's office to " discuss " why I told Mrs. Helicopter , Chair of the local PTA , that she was actually " enabling " Helicopter Jr . to resist learning of any form that was " painful " for him as a child of 15 or older , unless she was actually excited by the prospect at age 35 he 's be the very first occupant of their home 's new basement apartment , would never again have to change his mailing address , and that if his latest job continued to " constrict " his abilities to perform by imposing constraints on his work habits or imprisoning his " creative flow " with unreasonable time scheduling , there were other employment offers awaiting application of his skill set . <p> NO , I was n't a jerk as a teacher , and my Facebook " friends " list is riddled with 50-somethings now approaching retirement who were once my students . Come to think of it , these kids probably turned out " all right " NOT because I kept pushing them to try harder , but that they did not " fear " the need to learn , a problem our branch plant premiers ' management team can not exactly state without conflict . What other reason could drive them to constantly seek the attention of an imitation Prince Machiavelli called " Trump " ? <p> At the moment we have yet to see our federal leadership show up to constrain the anxieties that Ford , Smith and Moe in particular harbour in their quest for recognition in Washington . Why even bother with " going south " to argue their positions when we still do n't truly know what " grievances " upset Mr. Trump ? <p> What 's should worry Canadians is that Mark Carney , who 's the odds-on favourite to be our next PM is already hinting that upon his victory he 's going to dissolve Parliament and call a federal election . Why -- so he does n't first have to listen to Poilievre , Yves-Fran ? ois Blanchet , Elizabeth May , Singh , or the Three Wise Premiers lend their knowledge towards developing a totally Team Canada approach that meets ALL of the concerns Canadians have with regard to continued relationship with our former friends to the south of us ? <p> Mark , if you 're actually stupid enough to embark upon that pathway , you 're no better as PM than was Pierre Jr. , who could n't stand the idea brought forward just over two years ago that his policy " produce " was already stale dated , a stance that has left us totally unprepared to confront Trump on his own battleground . <p> Personally , I believe a communicator such as Charlie Angus is a better fit for leadership in this fight than a PM burdened by the collective weight of his own political and economic agenda . The American media , at least , loves Charlie 's attitude , who understand battleground tactics because he 's been continuously exposed to the often ugly skirmishes that have erupted in his home town of Timmins between management and mine workers wanting to be able to come home without injury after every day on the job . <p> Should Mark , however , not see the rationality of my replacing him in The Team line-up , my suggestion is that he at least protect himself from potential injury from low blows delivered by his narcissistic opponent . That means buying a " cup " , which should have been an obvious suggestion to those of us who witnessed Canada defeating the U.S. hockey team Thursday evening . Trump 's already training for his next big fight with whomever the European Union throws his way as " competition " , so our battle is going to be chock full of low blows we may never see coming , and Trump will just be using our " champion " as a sparring " partner " of no particular or substantive worth . <p> Even though I grew up as an " Air Force brat " I had no idea that Canada 's military regularly developed a counteroffensive and defensive strategy to address the possibility of the United States sending its armed forces into Canada to annex our nation . <p> It 's a threat our nation once had to consider when then Democratic presidential candidate James Polk uttered the phrase , " Fifty-Four Forty or Fight ! " , and invigorated America 's fascination with the principles of " Manifest Destiny " and the United States under Providence 's direction to be unburdened of restriction to their " right " to resettle the millions of individuals immigrating to the States , even if that meant displacing those who were here before their arrival . U.S. presidents have since utilized that rallying notion to annex Texas , California and Oregon , as well as create wars with Cuba , Mexico , Panama and Hawaii ; President Trump , however , is now resurrecting its meaning by suggesting that the U.S. should annex Canada , purchase Greenland , reclaim the Panama Canal , turn war-torn Gaza into a golf course , and perhaps even in the future with the assistance of oligarchs rushing to support his presidency , plant the Stars and Stripes on Mars . <p> Canada 's dreams are not so futuristic and grand ; we just want the bullying being laid upon our nation by a convicted felon and thug who threatens to disrupt our economy , impose meaningless tariffs upon goods we provide the rest of the world , claims that our laissez-faire " socialistic " attitudes and laxity in support of law and order cause great harm to his jurisdictions , yet refuses to acknowledge that we already know the motivation driving his assault : a coveting of what we as a nation have to offer the world , be it our natural and rare resources , our water , or even our access to the Arctic shores , where even more riches are potentially made available for him to plunder and grow ever wealthier in the process . <p> Our most senior government has instinctively understood what it is that Trump is attempting to do in this assault ; after all , he did attempt to diminish our economic role on the North American continent by demanding a renegotiation of the NAFTA agreement . As to Trump 's embarrassingly weak case for our being huge suppliers of killer drugs such as fentanyl or our laxity in keeping the " unwanted " away from American soil we had already dealt with these issues even while Biden was president ; therefore , to them it was merely a need to remain silent on other nation-to-nation matters and wait for Trump to drop the second shoe and tell us what he really wanted from us . <p> To our constitutional " branch plant " leaders of our provinces and territories , however , this " waiting around " for things to happen leaves them without opportunity to express their own concerns as to how Trump 's efforts to destabilize our economy could affect them . Thus , frightened as their own constituents grow nervous ( as Trump might well have predicted ) and thus wanting their own leadership qualities to be displayed before their voters , they collectively journey to Trump 's Washington , and awed by the very fact that they are even met by those responsible for putting Trump 's political agenda in motion , argue for their deliverance from such punishment by promoting their " strength " in providing the U.S. with essential product , be it oil , potash , uranium , electricity or even our water , failing to realize in their confessions that these same glad-handers who greeted them with such sincerity will in turn report to Trump as to the contents of these conversations , which he will in turn peruse for weaknesses in their arguments or to choose targets for further economic attack . <p> To date , the premiers ' efforts have produced nothing save assurances by their Trump hosts that the discussions were " worthwhile " , and perhaps even clarifying ; however , the only thing we do know is that after a 30 day period of " consideration " , our imports will be targeted for a 25 per cent tariff surcharge , and just after March 15th , aluminum and steel products will have a further 25% tacked onto this tariff burden , and we still have no idea as to how Canada will respond , if at all . <p> Equally ignored is the reality that we also have concerns as to how Americans deal with our concerns , in particular lax attention being paid to guns being imported to Canada by criminal organizations , auto theft , human smuggling activities or even potential terrorist threats , the substance of which American law enforcement agencies tend to deny Canadian authorities knowledge or plans of action to ameliorate such actions . Equally annoying is that in but another jab at our military readiness Trump is now " suggesting " that we should be spending up to 5 per cent of our GNP on defence , even though the United States spends only around 2.4 per cent , and most members of Congress consider even this figure to be excessive . <p> Canada , of course , is n't the only nation confounded by Trump 's actions . On Wednesday , he had a long chat with Russian puppet master Vladimir Putin pertaining to its invasion of Ukraine , only to get off the phone and tell Ukraine 's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that Crimea was now " Russian territory " , chastising him for even engaging in this war in the first place , that his presence would n't be required when Trump and Putin would draft the terms of settlement next month in Saudi Arabia . But not to worry ; it would n't be necessary for the Ukrainian president to have to waste his time negotiating the terms of capitulation , as President Trump would take care of these matters when he and Putin next meet in Saudi Arabia -- then leaving it to " recovering " alcoholic and U.S. Secretary of Defence Pete Hegseth to tell Zelenskyy that its application to join NATO was n't worth the paper it was written on . <p> Thus , in less than two days Trump succeeded in signaling to its NATO allies that not only had he sold them out by ignoring Russia 's attempts at expanding its empire , but that the U.S. could care less that Poland , Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania had just become increasingly vulnerable to future attempts by Putin to recreate the USSR 's Cold War sphere of influence . <p> As for his next forays into acts of " diplomacy " , Trump now intends to support Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that Israel 's war in Gaza can proceed , as he will expect Jordan and Egypt ( but not Saudi Arabia ) to " resettle " what remains of a Gaza population , victims of an eternal war reignited in its fury by Hamas extremists venting their hatred of the Jewish state by butchering over 1,000 Israeli settlers , then cowardly retreating to hide amongst the innocents who will never have any say as to who will govern their future . <p> At the moment , we can no longer feel safe in the knowledge that the U.S.A. under Trump 's leadership is our " friend " -- a fact that sooner or later our leaders must recognize . We need an " alternative " to be registered with Americans that we 're tired of listening to this ignorant narcissist , and perhaps it 's time that we consider a more drastic demonstration of this reality , to possibly even bringing a motion before NATO membership that the United States should be expelled from the organization , simply because its membership no longer has the confidence that this member nation will adhere to the mutual support and defense clauses embedded within those agreements , thereby letting the entire world know what they think of Trump 's " word " . <p> I want to ask Yorkton-Melville Conservative MP Cathay Wagantall one very simple question concerning her comments in Tuesday 's Herald ( " Wagantall says Parliament needs to resume " , p. 15 ) : How did " the Liberal government and our weak Prime Minister " Justin Trudeau put Canada in such a " precarious place with the United States " that U.S. President Donald felt that he could get away with imposing a 25 per cent tariff on Canadian imports , destroy us economically , or annexing our nation as " the 51st state " , thus , in HER opinion , making it " so dangerous for our country " ? <p> Trump 's oft-stated agenda in this second presidential go-round is to seek retribution against those who " politically weaponized " the nation 's legal forces following his first stint as President . Equally important in this delusionary view of reality has been the contempt he has shown for the laxness of typically democratic nations ' leadership in of controlling their political agenda , and failure to use their power to snuff out opposition to their rule . <p> Trump has frequently referenced the resistance he encountered in the " toxic " Chrystia Freeland during the 2016 NAFTA renegotiations , thus explicitly stating that she would be one of the " targets " towards which he would be directing his attention . As well , Trudeau is the type of individual that would appeal to Trump 's instincts to victimize : already the subject of voter disapproval in his home nation , he is regularly used as a punching bag by Opposition and Conservative leader Pierre Poilievre , and is particularly reviled by the types of voters to whom Trump 's propensity to utilize language in a manner that appeals to individual personal grievance . To Trump , these are all signs of sensing weakness , and so he attacked . <p> This man 's tools , crude though they are , are those of the school yard bully -- name calling , intimidation and ridicule , and he 's used them often against President Biden over the last four years when the Department of Justice was " investigating " his many underhanded schemes gone awry , and especially his reluctance to cede the 2020 election , resulting in riots in the Capitol . <p> The result of Trump 's continued verbal assaults upon President Biden and his family , not to mention Department of Justice officials has unfortunately enabled MAGA to create a cultist mentality in voters ; that is , you either " loved " Trump -- or hated his guts . By utilizing his ability to kindle voter resentment through acknowledging the frustration of working families seeing their hopes of ever achieving the " American Dream " fading away , this resulted in the metamorphosis of public opinion wherein it did n't matter what " facts " were telling them , Trump was " their man " , and thus the MAGA cult was born . <p> Here in Saskatchewan , political observers have noted that the cultist mentality for accepting Saskatchewan Party doggerel is only starting to be rejected in rural Saskatchewan , where , for instance , the alleged " closure of many rural hospitals " is still accepted as the Gospel , even as these same individuals embrace the methodology of health care practice that requires the consolidation of services necessary to assure everyone retains access to such care . For our current cult leaders such as Scott Moe , their desperation to retain the power that comes with government formation necessitates their continuance to rely upon such mythology . Long ago they lost the ability to embrace the concept of forward thinking necessary for this province to diversify and strengthen its own economic agenda . Thus , even in 2020 during his one debate with NDP Leader Ryan Meili , Moe had to constantly allude to his party having some " plan " which would soon be posted on the party 's election web site . <p> Such documentation never did appear . <p> Wagantall 's leader , Pierre Poilievre , has been accused of using a network of bots and paid web sites to cast aspersions upon persons associated with this government , particularly Trudeau and Jagmeet Singh , Leader of the federal NDP Party . Moreover , his simplistic cachet of slogans , be they " Axe the Tax " , " Build the homes " , Stop the Crime " or " Fix the Budget " even now still lack substantiation of an initiative to justify or even limit voter choices to these four items . <p> Still , and despite such increasing weakness in the Conservative Party 's appeals to the Canadian electorate , Wagantall 's concerns regarding Parliament being prologued at the moment carry with them the increasingly frantic intent with which the party desperately wants -- and needs -- a federal election NOW . <p> Even in his article , local journalism initiative reporter Ryan Kiedrowski bluntly reminds us that even were Trudeau to end the proroguing of Parliament , " an election will most likely result as both the Conservatives and NDP have been vocal about a vote of non-confidence at the first opportunity . " Still , Wagantall carries on , oblivious to the actual threats to both the Canadian economy and the nation 's sovereignty by simply confirming what we already know : the Conservative Party 's first action will be to " push to defeat this government for the vote of non-confidence " , as they " have amazing plans in place " : plans , we might add , that have no substance or current explanation that could give voters confidence that such a move might detract from our current leaders all be onside in dealing with the menace that is Donald Trump . <p> Behind this wall of insecurity lies another issue that the Conservative Party considers more important than our national security . Less than two months ago , pollsters were predicting a 230-plus majority government for the Conservatives . However , since Trudeau announced his intention to step down as the Liberal leader , polls are indicating that the Conservatives ' support is now dropping in an accelerated fashion . Even more disturbing to party hierarchy is the recently announced news that more than 400,000 Canadian voters have awakened from their Covid stupors and are now registering to vote in the Liberal leadership race , a contest that upon reading the tea leaves today suggest that former Bank of Canada governor Mark Carney will be our next PM . <p> Given that NDP leader Jagmeet Singh and NDP MP Charlie Angus have firmly placed their foot upon supporting a " Team Canada " approach to the Trump menace , it now appears unlikely that their party will continue to vote against any non-confidence motion brought before Parliament by Conservatives . In addressing Trump 's " concerns " respecting border security and the smuggling of drugs , particularly fentanyl , into the United States , Trudeau has presented the same plan as had previously been shown to President Biden , in effect and with the support of the American public has caused Trump to " reconsider " his position on imposing tariffs on Canada -- at least for the next 30 days , and winning the respect and praise of many Canadians , including Pierre Poilievre . <p> For the Saskatchewan federal NDP , there 's a lesson to be learned here : even minority Parliaments are capable of providing good government . Thus , were they to convince sufficient numbers of voters that a Liberal MP candidate can not be expected to win a seat in this province for the foreseeable future , make such remarks a staple in any future campaign rhetoric . <p> By the time anyone chooses to read this column , Canadians may well have already begun referring to it as " T-Day " , as it 's most likely to be the day Emperor Trump finally decided to unleash his tariff demons . Do n't worry , though ; we wo n't be alone facing such an economic broadside ; just be aware that if the inevitable happens , there will be a lot of schools in the province , especially in our rural communities , that will be looking for Spanish teachers , so if you 've been spending a lot of your winter vacationing in Mexico , now 's the time to " brush up " on your language skills . <p> Actually , whatever " penalty " U.S. President Donald Trump wants to impose upon Canada or any other country whose diplomatic skills have displeased him since Jan. 20 , do n't sweat the small stuff ; he 's creating enough legal bombshells even in his own domain that pretty much guarantee that FOX News , CNN and MSNBC will not go bankrupt for the foreseeable future of creating " news " for the Democrat -- MAGA/Republican Hate Machine to feast upon . <p> Even though there have been only eleven days of this new " war " being fought on the economic battlefields of the world , there already are a LOT of intelligent Canadians preparing their thesis paper based upon this subject . For instance , the front page " Letter to the Editor " written by former Regina NDP MP Erin Weir peacefully explaining to the good people of Greenland ( with due apologies to our NATO friend , Denmark ) how their becoming part of a province of Canada would provide better economic opportunity than whatever Trump 's exploit-driven suggestions might provide . Erin , unfortunately , is basing his suggestions upon economic principles he learned while pursuing his Master 's in Public Administration at Queen 's University and uses a slightly " elitist " form of language , as opposed to the carnival barking style preferred by The Apprentice , but the average Canadian should still have little difficulty in understanding its message . <p> In actuality , though , I have always been curious as to why people take Trump 's words so seriously . Sure , he seems to " mean " what he 's previously said , and seems to be doing a fine job in following up on these " threats " , but why ca n't we just laugh at this man-child , point out what damage he will most likely also inflict upon Americans , then use that nation 's own laws as a weapon repelling his economic onslaught ? <p> Using a nation 's own legal definitions against itself policies is an interesting take . For instance , Trump ( and the U.S. Supreme Court SCOTUS , for that matter ) is attempting to convince every state that they should be taking care of the majority of their own business/government dealings by utilizing " states rights " legislation already ensconced in the Constitution . Just because Green Party leader Elizabeth May " jokingly " suggested that California , Oregon and Washington states should cede from the United States and join with British Columbia in forming a Canadian economic/environmental powerhouse , thus moving us far more rapidly in a " greener " economic direction , does n't mean that such a " thing " ca n't possibly occur . <p> In reality , every state in the Union can place such a proposition to be voted upon every " Tuesday after the first Monday in November in even-numbered years . " So why stop with just these three ? How about adding Michigan , New York , Vermont , Connecticut and maybe even Massachusetts -- and while we 're at it , ask Cuba and Puerto Rico to also join our soon-to-be-revised monarchist/republican confederation ? Talk about economic " opportunity " ; for instance , were Cuba to accept such an offer , we 'd instantly solve our doctor " shortage " , and with Puerto Rico under Trump as President , we 'd be well stocked with toilet paper for at least four years before having to even consider " harvesting " our own forest , during which time we could then amend home building regulation to require every new home to have at least one bidet . <p> Am I being " serious " here , or just sarcastic in my suggestions on how to repel this idiot that once again giving blondes a bad name ? Maybe it 's both ; the point is , from a worldly perspective , perhaps the best lesson that President Trump could learn would be for us -- the world , for that matter , to examine the extent to which the United States continues to add to the issue of climate change and its increasingly catastrophic consequences , and sue that nation for the damage it inflicts upon our own economy -- or , for that matter , the states that must now endure such punishment because Trump , who still believes that such a climatic condition is a " hoax " , is once again pulling the United States out of the Paris Accord . <p> There are many within our Conservative Party membership who will , when discussing climate change and global warming ( that is , if they even grudgingly admit that such conditions are indeed " real " ) , maintain that our contribution to global warming is minimal , and that we should first be trying to convince China and India ( but not the U.S. , for some weird reason ) to cut back on their usage of coal to generate electricity before we do anything for ourselves . They 're delusional , and as usual their message is replete with disinformation and really bad science . <p> Since Canada as become susceptible to having an annual forest fire " season " that feast upon the western slopes of Canada 's Rocky Mountain slopes , we are now the fourth LARGEST contributor to fossil fuel emissions in the world . The weather effect that creates these fires is the same one as currently has the Los Angeles area looking more like Gaza than the 1960 's Sunset Strip -- namely , the Santa Ana winds . Increasing numbers of polar vortexes are making their way south , compressing and trapping air over the Nevada Grand Basin , which is then superheated , escapes at its the Pacific exit , only to blowtorch its way back up the California coastline and creating a landscape not even torrential rains can keep from becoming nothing more than mudslide opportunities . <p> Were we U.S. citizens , we 'd be accustomed to suing governments or other sources of irritation requiring litigation , but in British Columbia 's case ( or Fort McMurray , for that example ) , we probably do n't even have an idea as to the monetary value of such damage to our economy , so we do n't go to court with such matters , when in fact it 's what should be done , were there a world court where such a case could be heard . <p> But -- we 're Canadians ... and now the plaything of an avaricious thug and a group of oligarchs who worship only in the temple of the self-rewarding . We 're only going to win this economic " war " with Trump IF , following the resitting of Parliament , our leaders should adapt the determination of our soldiers who defended freedom and democracy at Vimy Ridge or Dieppe , instead of the self-serving pawns that Scott Moe or Danielle Smith care to be . <p> Please humor me while I ask you to answer the following question : Were you to be placed in a situation wherein you , any member of your family , or a business in which you are intimately involved are being threatened to the point where you are forced to seek legal counsel , how would you first go about choosing such a person , and with the stipulation that this person has to go to whatever lengths are necessary to assure you of victory ? <p> Assuming you have such resources at your disposal , would you begin that search by simply going onto social media , air your concerns in a public forum , and see what friends and so-called " influencers " have to say on these matters ? <p> From a personal perspective , the only advice I 'd be seeking is that of a close personal friend ( and in person ) or , more likely narrowing that search by first canvassing for a legal firm with a history of successful litigation in my area of concern , not to mention that in obtaining such results their arguments also support conditions of my concern that are most likely for me to win my case . <p> However , IF their arguments are generally in opposition to your concerns , would you then alternatively choose a law firm that does win utilizing arguments pertaining to your position , but loses virtually every other case it handles , and has even been forced to compensate their client through the successful launching of a " Go Fund Me " style donation drive ? If you ca n't believe that such a potential client even exists , then please allow me to introduce two individuals from Nova Scotia , David MacKinnon of Amherst , and Aris Lavranos , a Halifax emergency doctor and legal counsel for cases involving medical malpractice . <p> Both gentlemen are currently being represented by the Justice Centre for Constitutional Freedoms ( JCCF ) in challenging Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's constitutional right to prorogue Parliament , and are seeking the restoration of Canada 's 44th Parliamentary session so that all Canadian MP 's are on hand to lend a voice as to how to deal with the tariff threats being made by re-elected U.S. President Donald Trump . <p> Fair enough ; in 2016 Trump demanded a renegotiation of the NAFTA Agreement , a trade bill that allowed Canada , the United States and Mexico to function more along the lines of an integrated economy , thus supporting everyone 's economic goals without damage to their nation 's existing trade positions . It 's fair to say that both MacKinnon and Lavranos ' concerns are shared by an overwhelming majority of Canadians , Kevin O'Leary 's opinion notwithstanding . It 's also fair to note that there are a LOT of Canadians who believe that Prime Minister Trudeau 's decision to prorogue Parliament until March 25th so that the Liberal Party of Canada can elect a new leader to replace him ( thereby his acknowledging that Canadians have little confidence in him leading this trade battle ) is self-serving . However , these concessions to the mindsets of both MacKinnon and Lavranos notwithstanding , why would they choose JCCF to represent them in this very serious legal battle , given that organization 's record of success on similar legal battles they have joined ? <p> JCCF considers itself to be a " legal advocacy organization specializing in a social conservative approach to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms " . As can be expected , it is seriously funded by various U.S. and Canadian right-wing organizations sympathetic to the MAGA political point of view . Its president , John Carpay , is a former " head " of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation , has been a provincial candidate for both the Reform and Wild Rose parties , and is now a member of Danielle Smith 's United Conservatives . <p> Carpay 's legal " maneuvers " typically share the fringe regions of ethical behaviour , having once hired a private detective to shadow Manitoba Chief Justice Glenn Joyal and catch him defying Covid-19 pandemic restrictions , a case Carpay was arguing before his Court . However , JCCF 's typical clientele , ranging from the leadership of the so-called " Freedom " Convoy to Ezra Levant 's Rebel News are equally " out there " in their approach as to how the Canadian legal system should work for them . <p> JCCF 's case loads include representing Trinity Western University when it filed its anti-LGBTQ suit allowing them to train future lawyers to be accepted to the Bar , while only being trained to argue cases based upon their " traditional Christian teachings " ( they lost ) , as well as clients arguing violations of " free speech " well rooted in anti-Indigenous personalized public hatred . One of the more ridiculous examples involved so-called " vanity vehicle license " issuance ( e.g. " ASIMIL8 " , ' IH8INDNS " , etc ) -- which they also lost . <p> OK , let 's consider what might happen in Parliament should MacKinnon and Lavranos " luck out " and win their Supreme Court case . We already know with a complete certainty that the Conservatives are so seriously anxious to have an election that could actually result in Pierre Poilievre becoming our next prime minister that the first item on Parliament 's new agenda would include the introduction of a motion of non-confidence in the government . <p> IF the Bloc and the NDP are foolish enough to support such a motion at a time when the current government is holding a leadership convention , the next item will be the calling of a federal election , resulting in absolutely NO input having been provided by our federal leaders on how to address Trump 's continuing attacks upon our sovereignty . The federal government , legally speaking will have no right to rule on behalf of Canadians , and federal party leaders will all be trying to re-elected , so that they can rejoin this battle for economic control of the nation . <p> Two results will be forthcoming from such a joke scenario based almost exclusively upon Poilievre 's rabid desire to become Canada 's next Prime Minister . First , a newly elected Parliamentary body could not possibly start functioning normally until late May or early June . The second result , however , is far more ominous , as this federal vacuum will now leave either Doug Ford or Danielle Smith to " lead the nation " -- a privilege neither of which has had the Canadian electorate approve or disapprove . <p> Do we really need this legal battle potentially constraining our fight for a right to exist as a nation because we " hate " Justin Trudeau that much ? The answer is " no " , but I wonder how many Canadians believe that to be the case . <p> What do you call something that someone does on a regular basis , never changes the manner of delivery of this event , and insists upon its virtues in his maintaining a life filled with consistency , conformity and personal peace ? A " habit " ? Swell ... except in the world of exchange when it comes to advances in Science , I tend to refer to this process in Darwinian terms that sound more like a medical diagnosis and an affront to some uncharacteristic religious beliefs when discussing climate change and global warming : It 's a " failure " to recognize the obvious and adapt . <p> For the last six months or so I 've got this " friend " ( Yes , I have friends ) who , upon seeing my STILL writing about the topic will immediately pull out his " Messenger " app , and in capital letters advise me -- again -- that such a phenomenon is nothing but a " HOAX " . I have no ideas as to why he keeps trying to make that point , but come this Saturday , just before noon , that message WILL arrive in my " Inbox " . <p> What 's happening right now that one can place their hands upon as actually being " fact " ? Well , consider the reality of our about to find ourselves in the grip of a THIRD " polar vortex " for the rest of the month , despite the fact that three days ago Prince Albert 's weather was being affected by almost chinook-like winds that finally allowed city crews to plug your otherwise shovelled driveways with huge chunks of ice that have been dormant on your street even before Christmas . Come Wednesday , however , what was a balmy -10 C on Friday will see our temperature drop some 25 degrees Celsius , which may give some of us home that this year the Riders will once more win the Grey Cup . <p> Contrast this scenario with that of California , now well known for having its " fire season " starting earlier and earlier , the entire Pacific coastline from just south of Los Angeles and north a further 80 km or so , you do n't need street lights to assist you in seeing the sidewalk at midnight ; that is , if that walkway is actually cool enough to allow you such luxury . Its " cause " is the same weather phenomena that has for five years running now has transformed the western slopes of our Rockies into fiery pits causing forest destruction and threats to the existence of communities up and down British Columbia 's major inland highways . <p> The cause of these fires can be directly attributed to something called Santa Ana winds , which have some of the characteristics of what we refer to on the Prairies as " plough winds " , but with " accessories " such as being excessively " dry " and hot , a product of their physical construction . <p> They start when a high pressure cold front ( such as the now emerging polar vortex ) moves into Nevada 's Grand Basin , compressing the air already in the basin , thus heating it . The larger the cold air front , the more the air in the basin is compressed and heated , accelerating the winds that result from the original air masses having to give way to the cold front , so that when those winds finally are released from the Basin at the Pacific coast they could be moving at up to 150 km/h , be as hot as 30 degrees Celsius and are already substantially drier ( five per cent humidity or less ) than even desert air volumes . the air over a typical desert patch . <p> If we " look down " at the Earth over the North Pole , we will see that our planet 's rotation is counterclockwise , which means that the winds will be pushed towards the coastline . Next , if you 've ever tried to start a campfire at any time in your life , you will remember that once you start to see smoke coming from the dry embers that you 've just tried to light , by gently blowing on that heated portion this will eventually result in flames forming and the fire started . <p> This " blowing " effect from the Santa Ana winds has a similar effect once hitting land . Anything that is already " hot " -- and dry -- will have their conditions exacerbated by the wind , especially power lines and transformers , often the first " victims " of these winds . As well , areas of land possibly only recently having been fire storm centres may not have cooled sufficiently or have embers underground that still are glowing , and eventually they , too , will succumb to the physical reality that this wind brings fire with it -- as all Californians finally paying attention now know . <p> Now , should you choose to reread the last five paragraphs I wrote , you 'll note that there 's absolutely NO linkage between the fires being created and what government is in power . Since 1977 scientists have been warning us that climate change is " real " , is a product of our having shifted our life diets towards increasing consumption of crude oil products , and irrespective of whether or not the carbon tax is going to assist us in our efforts to fight back against climate change , our great-grandchildren wo n't have to worry about the Second Coming , as the prospects of survival in a New World " Mad Max " will be of more concern to their families . <p> So what about the situations now unveiling themselves as a result of climate change are of particular concern to Saskatchewanians ? Well , at least if you 're part of the " new " Saskatchewan government , not much , really . The fact that the California fires are portending the increased fury with which the Santa Ana winds will affect British Columbia forests on the west banks of the Rockies does n't seem to concern him , nor does he appear to draw any parallels between what happened to Fort McMurray and our own winds being the result of similar conditions as those in BC . Finally , we can see that forestry management will continue to be governed by the mindset that has established " clear cutting " as our favourite form of harvesting , while the fact that climate change has had seriously damaging effects upon our now overheated northern peat bogs , thus making them almost certain targets for increasingly dangerous windstorms and fire breaks . <p> The reality here is that someone has to start constructing a " futures " plan to resist Nature 's propensity to pay us back for its abuse . Whether or not we finally realize that all future hydro development and generation should include compulsory burying of wire and starting such maintenance in every community of the province , curtail urban sprawl , husband our agricultural lands to accommodate future needs for food sustainability , and even regulating the creation of new materials or techniques to use in building construction or mineral exploration . <p> We 're not " California " -- yet , but even within the clutter of having to listen to the nonsense spewing from soon-to-be-President Trump , if we do n't start paying attention to real issues such as global warming instead of this windbag , northern Saskatchewan may soon find itself in worse deforestation scenarios than the western coastline of both Canada and the United States . <p> For those of you still watching Canadian news channels in order to keep up with events occurring in Ottawa ( and NOT the one about the Canadian Juniors , not making the medal rounds for the second time in two years ) . No , the " political ones " , folks . Try to stay on topic . <p> IF you listened to PM Justin Trudeau on Jan. 6 explain what " process " would be followed in his decision to resign his leadership of the Liberal Party , just what was your " reaction " ? <p> For almost 75 per cent of Canadians , I will assume that their standard reaction was somewhere along the lines of " It 's about bloody well time " -- plus a few choice pejoratives followed by a rejoicing -- with even more pejorative utilization -- posting of your feelings on social media that in no way would embrace the sentiment espoused in Leonard Cohen 's rendition of Hallelujah . <p> My reaction was slightly " calmer " ; I yawned , and even used that " word " that my teenage students used to use in my presence to drive me nuts -- " Whatever " . <p> First of all , it 's not going to make any difference to Pierre Poilievre , who is becoming increasingly desperate for a federal election to be called so that he can take advantage of current polls that puts the Conservative Party up some 22 points on the Liberals , while at the moment no one -- at least if you listen to the two " biggies " of national news , CBC and CTV -- is analyzing just what part the NDP and Jagmeet Singh will play in everyone 's wild attempt to knock Mr. Poilievre down to size , physically speaking . <p> What worries me , and should worry Canadians who are paying more attention to international affairs , is that in the accompaniment of Trudeau 's expectation to pass the gavel of Canadian leadership to someone who 'll probably have it in their hands in less time than did PC Kim Campbell ( four months , 10 days ) when Canadians gave Mulroney the heave , he has prorogued Parliament until March 24 , effectively sucking all potential legislation currently on the session 's agenda into a black hole , ceasing any Committee 's ability to oversee its jurisdiction save fiscally or ethically related ( 3 ) , thereby leaving those who were never concerned about ethical behaviour in the first place taking to social media to express their views on the latest conspiracy theories being advanced by artificial intelligence algorithms created by China , Russia , North Korea or even India and U.S. right-wing propagandists succumbing to the cult of personality now in ascension as we approach Donald Trump 's coronation . <p> What 's distressing about this is , first , that NONE of these functioning committees have any jurisdiction over the state of Canadian security within even its own borders , at a time when soon-to-be President Trump is threatening the imposition of huge tariffs upon anything being shipped into the States , and has threatened economic Armageddon upon Panama , Mexico and Greenland ( and Canada ) -- ALL while we are without a concerted and fully united voice of leadership arguing the case on Canada 's behalf . <p> My specific worry is that as a result of this political malaise , Canadians will choose the next crop of Parliamentarians based upon their having set aside their whining about how many opportunities to they lost to get drunk with the boys during Covid mandates , sex-based bathroom assignment that teach our children nothing about genetics and even less about developing a tolerance for " difference " , pretending that climate change is a hoax , or that " immigrants " are destroying the value of Canadian jobs , when in actuality it is the increasing intent of our provincial governments to degrade the standards of our educational institutions even though we are at the moment incapable of producing the numbers of professionally qualified personnel ( scientists , doctors , researchers , etc. ) we require to maintain the standards of living to which we have become addicted . <p> ( We also have to start embracing those who choose to come to farm in Canada , when those agriculturalists being sacrificed to the needs of AgCorp are forced to sell their land because they can not find sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to assist in the production of market garden produce , essential to the task of having a nation no longer burdened by food sustainability issues now being created in volume by the destruction of such enterprises in , say , California . ) <p> During Parliament 's proroguing Justin Trudeau will still be " responsible " for leading the argumentative case against Trump 's attempts to bury us with his tariff schemes . No one wants that , not even die-hard Liberals , and if Canadians stop to think about it long enough , even lesser numbers will look at Poilievre and determine his words to be more bluster and anger at not being able to convince Parliamentarians to give him the opportunity to become PM , as opposed to an immutable stand against the Trump bullying once adopted by Chrystia Freeland , whom no one is going to give a second change to lead that fight for economic sovereignty . <p> So , who 's left ? Certainly not the premiers of the three provinces prostituting themselves at Trump 's doorsteps seeking his favour ( Ontario , Saskatchewan and Alberta ) , and even Poilievre knows that he 's not the right person , given his look of dismay before a press gallery on Thursday talking about this very issue . <p> As for my own suggestion , it is based more upon reaction to our Parliamentarians now being interviewed on American media platforms than what Canadians have so far offered , other than Andrew Coyne 's occasional utilization of verbs , adjectives and even nouns becoming synonyms for Trumpian stupidity and arrogance . <p> Our neighbours want to see someone manning our negotiating post that talks like Trump , but still manages to remain sensible and amazingly reasonable in describing just what the next president wants from Canada , other than the " bending of the knee " ...
