<h> Interview with President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev released by AZERTAC News Agency <p> Monitoring Desk : On January 7 , President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev was interviewed by local TV channels . AZERTAC presents the interview , which covers a wide range of subjects and shares President Aliyev 's vision and the spectrum of his great work for his nation . <p> Questions and Answers : <p> Vusal Matlab from Azerbaijan Television : Good to see you , Mr. President . First of all , with your permission , we would like to thank you for this interview format , which has already become a tradition . Because it gives us the opportunity to find out your detailed views on issues of public interest . We are grateful for such an opportunity . <p> I would like to begin with the results of 2024 . What can you say about the indicators of the socioeconomic performance in 2024 and what forecasts do these indicators create for 2025 ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Last year was also a successful year in terms of economic development . Azerbaijan 's economy developed . I believe that the pace of development , if we look at today 's world in general , can be seen as positive . The gross domestic product has increased by more than 4 percent . In fact , the main indicator for us is the development of the non-oil sector . Because , as you know , we have been facing a decline in oil production , and I believe that as a result of the negotiations and efforts made , this decline will be stopped and oil production will remain stable . Thus , the decline in oil production will no longer have a negative impact on the gross domestic product . Therefore , when we look at overall economic indicators , we , first of all , take into account the parameters of the non-oil sector . Here too , the development has been more successful , as it has increased by more than 6 percent . Considering that for many years now , one of our main goals for economic development has been to increase industrial production , growth in the non-oil industrial sector is even higher . This is more than 7 percent . In other words , if we look at the growth rates of the world economy and the development rates of developed countries , or rather , their recessions , we will see that the Azerbaijani economy has developed successfully . Of course , this is based on a well-thought-out policy . <p> These indicators are not just the result of the last year . As a result of many years of economic reforms , transparency , the fight against monopolistic trends , attraction of investments , and improvement of the investment climate , we are observing a positive change in the attitude of leading international rating agencies to Azerbaijan . That is , they can not deny the reality either . However , I believe that our international rating deserves a higher level than it currently is , but for certain reasons , leading rating agencies are still displaying a modest approach . In other words , all this suggests that we have been able to achieve sustainable development in the economic sphere , and I am sure that this dynamic will be maintained this year and in the coming years . <p> As for our financial situation , last year we were able to significantly improve our performance and increase our reserves , although last year 's budget was at a record level and many social programs were implemented , including the fact that major funds were mobilized for the restoration of Karabakh . Despite this , we have optimized our processes in such a way that our foreign exchange reserves have further increased . Throughout the year , our foreign exchange reserves increased by more than $5 billion . Today , this figure is equal to $72 billion . For a country with a population of 10 million , this is a very large indicator . Because everything is measured in comparison . A calculation of foreign exchange reserves of countries worldwide should , of course , be based on reserves per capita , and according to this indicator , Azerbaijan is among the leading countries in the world . <p> The second important indicator is the ratio of gross domestic product to external debt . I believe that we are among the world leaders here as well . Because our external debt accounts for only 7.2 percent of our gross domestic product . For comparison , I can say that in most developed countries it is in excess of 100 percent , and a level of 7.2 percent is a truly great result . That is why I believe that international rating agencies should demonstrate a fairer position to Azerbaijan . Of course , the comparison of foreign exchange reserves with external debt is also one of the important factors . Here too , our foreign exchange reserves exceed our external debt 14 times . So if someone shows me a second such country -- we are talking about developed countries -- if anyone can come up with this set of figures , I would certainly be grateful . But there are no such analogues among developed countries . So , all of this gives us reason to say that the economy is stable , relies on its own resources and does not need any external financing . However , we have now begun to make efforts to slightly increase our external debt . It may increase to some extent , because it has decreased significantly . Five years ago , when our external debt accounted for about 20 percent of the gross domestic product , I set a goal that we should reduce it to 10 percent . Now it is 7.2 percent . So what will external financing give us ? Considering that the country has many serious investment-requiring issues , this will slightly reduce the burden on the budget . Therefore , considering that a repayment schedule of our external debt has also been determined , our external debt , which is equal to $5.2 billion today , will decrease even more over the years . Therefore , attracting additional financial resources can be considered expedient , and the government has already begun to work in this direction . I have given the appropriate instructions . <p> Of course , the budget parameters also reflect the economic potential of each country : both parameters and dynamics . That is , this year 's budget is at a record high . Budget expenditures exceed 41 billion manats . The overall budget is in excess of 48 billion manats . There has never been such a large budget in the history of Azerbaijan . Listing all these factors , I want to show once again that we have achieved these results solely at the expense of internal resources , as a result of transparency , governance , and sound economic policies . I have repeatedly stated this , and I think everyone now sees this , that the political independence of each country depends on its economic independence . If you are not dependent on anyone in economic and financial matters , you can conduct an independent policy . Therefore , in general , there are , of course , many other parameters , . But these are the main economic indicators . Of course , this allows us the opportunity to implement social programs more actively . <p> As you may know , from 1 January this year , the minimum wage increased by 55 manats to reach 400 manats . The minimum pension has increased by 40 manats to reach 320 manats . The average increase is 14-15 percent . For a country that has made such large investments and has such a tall task of restoring Karabakh , paying attention to this area , of course , shows the essence of our policy . In other words , Azerbaijani citizens should be able to live better year after year . If we compare this increase with the inflation rate , which was a little more than 2 percent last year , then this increase is just another aid from the government to the vulnerable population . Everything should be fair in society , in politics and in the family . The principles of social justice have always been important to us . As soon as the opportunity arose , we first of all paid attention to this area . Over the past few years , four social packages have been implemented and more than 7 billion manats have been spent for this purpose . From now on , social and economic development will go hand in hand . As economic opportunities increase , we will always pay attention to addressing social issues -- increasing the minimum wage , pensions and social benefits . <p> Guy Shawn from AnewZ Television : Mr. President , thank you very much for speaking to AnewZ , an international channel that broadcasts in English . I particularly want to thank you for agreeing to speak with us today in English for our viewers . I 'd like to ask you about COP29 . The whole world pretty much came to Baku . There were many tough negotiations . There were some noticeable absentees -- the President of France and the President of the European Commission did not attend . Despite that , a deal was done . Could I ask for your reflections on the achievements of the event and also what needs to happen this year and beyond to keep that momentum ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Yes , COP29 was a big challenge for us , and of course , a big opportunity . Our task was to convert the challenge into success . Of course , we clearly realized that Azerbaijan , not being a biggest gas emission country , can not play a decisive role in bringing the world together . But we thought that our experience in international institutions and a diversified foreign policy would help us to build bridges . <p> So , as soon as we were awarded COP29 in December 2023 , we started to be deeply involved in the substance . Frankly speaking , before , we were not very actively involved in this process . You see that one of the main impediments to achieving success is the lack of trust between the Global South and the Global North -- between the countries , which are the big polluters , if I could name them like that , and those that suffer from this . And we have seen the disbalance ; the countries which have an existential threat with respect to climate change , have their gas emission below 0.1 but they are really under threat . So their life , their future , and the whole existence of the countries , especially small island states , are under threat . <p> So we started to use our homework preparation , being very active in the Global South , having great experience in chairing the Non-Aligned Movement for four years with great success -- with unanimous support from this institution , which was reflected in a unanimous decision to extend our chairmanship for one more year . At the same time , being actively involved in European politics Azerbaijan signed or adopted strategic partnership declarations and agreements with ten members of the European Union . So we decided that could work . <p> We started to work immediately . So , we work on two tracks mainly : preparation and substance . On both , there have been a lot of rocks and bumps . But I think the final results demonstrate that it was a success story . Preparation was a big challenge because , unlike previous COPs , we had not two years but only eleven months to prepare . We had to build all those great installations in the stadium and around it -- close to 200 thousand square meters of covered space -- and everybody was happy with the organizational side . It was not only about creating that site , but also logistic , transportation , accommodation , certification of our hotels , and finding other spaces for guests to stay because we do not have so many rooms . We had 76,000 registered participants from 197 countries . <p> Another problem , which we did not expect , was attempts to boycott COP29 due to political reasons , and that was very unexpected . I do n't think that any other country which hosted this event faced this kind of resistance . But we also managed to deal with that . So the boycott failed . Though , as you mentioned , some countries , especially France , were doing their utmost to discredit the event . I have information from my colleagues , presidents , that the French president personally was contacting many of them , saying not to go to Baku . So , even that was used to stop leaders from coming . But it failed . Eighty heads of states and governments came to Baku . That once again demonstrated that Azerbaijan is considered a reliable partner . <p> With respect to what you said about the absence of the President of the European Commission , as far as I know , this was the first COP where the President of the European Commission did not attend , though the participation of the President of the Commission was confirmed a couple of months before . Even at the initiative of the European Commission , a special session was planned to address the issue of the green cable project with the participation of the leaders of Azerbaijan , Georgia , Hungary , and Romania , the countries , which are involved . Again , that event was proposed by the European Commission , and we found a place to squeeze it in because it was too busy , but it was the " last-minute cancellation " of the visit which was a surprise . <p> I know that the Organizing Committee of COP29 communicated with the European Commission , saying that COP is for two weeks . And there was a lot of time to come . By the way , the Secretary-General of the United Nations came twice : at the opening and at the closing . But again , this message was ignored by the European Commission . And of course , COP29 did not suffer from that , but the absence of the European Commission , which is a party to COP , of course , raises a lot of questions . <p> But nevertheless , from the point of view of the organizational side , it was definitely a success story . I already said once that we had only ten complaints , which were addressed immediately . <p> So now , with respect to the results , many people call it -- and I join that -- Baku Breakthrough because for almost ten years , the parties could not agree on the carbon market . The first days of COP already started with success , and an agreement on the carbon market -- Article 6 of the Paris Agreement -- was achieved . And that was really a great success , and everybody was happy about that . So , what could n't have been agreed on for ten years was agreed upon in Baku . <p> Of course , the financing , because the main topic of COP was finance . I know that there were a lot of expectations that a trillion dollars would be allocated , but that was absolutely unrealistic . So , what was achieved is that we tripled the financing for the coming years . Because before COP29 , the latest agreed figure was USD 100 billion . So , here in Baku , we made it 300 billion USD . So , when someone says that it was a failure , it 's not fair . It was a real success and also a legacy that will be used for the future . <p> There were a lot of other important initiatives . The total number of initiatives from Azerbaijan was 14 . I do n't want to mention all of them . It demonstrates that we treated this issue very seriously . Of course , another legacy , which I am sure will remain at future COPs , is the creation of the Troika between the current , previous , and future host countries . So , that is how it was organized . This creates synergy because we built our success on the success in the UAE , on the success of COP28 UAE consensus . And we used their experience . So this year , COP in Brazil will definitely build its -- I hope -- success story on UAE and Azerbaijan 's success . <p> Of course , our green agenda , which is another topic , absolutely fits in the global green agenda and green transition . I think we have already done a lot , and many more projects are to be implemented in the near future . <p> So , I would once again call it a very big success . An important factor for us was also the country presentation . Never in our region has something similar been held . Never have so many guests gathered in one place in our region . So , it was a country presentation , and all those , whom I met , said , many of them -- I mean , those who visited us for the first time -- said they were impressed with what they had seen . Because the lack of information about Azerbaijan and also deliberate misinformation about the country actually has influenced the minds of many people . So , when they come to Azerbaijan , they see a vibrant society , educated people , trained personnel , the beauty of the city , and the total comfort of the society . Of course , it impresses . <p> So , we had different targets , and all of them were achieved . So , another success for Azerbaijan . <p> Nigar Sabirgizi from Public Television : Mr. President , you talked about COP29 . Of course , COP29 was an indicator of Azerbaijan 's international authority . My question will also be about Azerbaijan 's place in the international community . It is known that our country closely cooperates with a number of international organizations , is a member of these organizations , and this process continues . Recently , at the end of last year , on 19 December , Azerbaijan was admitted to another influential organization , D8 . This organization expanded its ranks with Azerbaijan after almost 30 years . What does membership in D8 mean to Azerbaijan in terms of Azerbaijan 's place in the political system of the world ? I would like to ask what this means for Azerbaijan and what prospects it opens up for our country ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : This was another successful step for us . Because Azerbaijan 's acceptance into this organization once again demonstrates the authority of our country . You know very well that this organization was established almost 30 years ago at the initiative of T ? rkiye and included eight countries . No other members were accepted during these years . Azerbaijan was the first member accepted after the first enlargement decision . Of course , this shows the authority of our country as well as our role in the international arena . D8 is the largest organization uniting Muslim countries . It is an organization with a population of more than one billion and accounts for 60 percent of the economy of Muslim countries . If we consider the gross domestic product of this organization , it exceeds 5 trillion dollars . There are about 60 Muslim countries in the world , and Azerbaijan has been elected as a new member . Of course , this is both a great honor and a great responsibility for us . All instructions have already been given so that Azerbaijan can be active in this organization and make its contribution . <p> It was T ? rkiye that supported our candidacy from the very first day . At the invitation of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , I once attended the D8 summit in T ? rkiye as a guest about seven or eight years ago . Since then , the issue of Azerbaijan 's membership has been on the agenda . But , of course , there had to be a consensus among all member countries , and finally , this consensus was achieved . <p> We will , of course , be in closer contact with member states . However , we already have very active relations with all member states . We still consider this decision to be a recognition of our successes . I repeat , this is just the first such step . The main issue will be related to the future activities of D8 . Of course , we have our own ideas and our own agenda . We will constantly be in contact with member states and make our proposals . I think it is quite realistic that D8 will have great influence as an organization . I believe that , in one way or another , the expansion has already begun , it will not be limited to Azerbaijan , perhaps other countries will also be invited . Of course , these issues will be considered on the basis of consensus . <p> Azerbaijan has always been a valuable member of the Muslim world . If you pay attention to the statements of the leaders of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation , you will see that this organization , which unites all Muslim countries , has had a very positive opinion about Azerbaijan at all times . We have taken consistent steps related to Muslim solidarity , including respect for the Islamic religion in Azerbaijan , interfaith relations , and hosting many events , including the Fourth Islamic Solidarity Games . We always defend the interests of Muslim countries in all international organizations , including the UN . In all organizations , if an election is held for a leadership position in any organization and there is a representative of a Muslim country there , we automatically vote for that representative . That is , this was my instruction , and once the instruction is given , I repeat , it is automatically resolved . We have provided assistance to many Muslim countries . We do not boast about it , and when we do so , we do not talk about it much . But even the information available in the media is sufficient to say that we are very active in this area , both during COVID and in other issues . We have been at the forefront of addressing the disaster facing the Palestinian people . After the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria and the formation of a new government , Azerbaijan became the second country after T ? rkiye to provide humanitarian assistance there , and we are ready to provide any other assistance . For this purpose , a delegation from the Foreign Ministry of Azerbaijan recently visited Syria . <p> So , we perceive the interests of all Muslim countries as our own , which is probably why Azerbaijan was the first choice after the decision to expand D8 was made . Of course , our country 's economic potential , political weight , and military power were taken into account as well . Our policy of Islamic solidarity , which I mentioned , was taken into account . At the same time , this organization is expanding its geography . D8 has already expanded to both the Caucasus and the Caspian region , and the wider our geography , the broader our opportunities . <p> It is no secret to anyone that a new world order is shaping up . I believe that we are at the beginning of this process , many gaps are emerging and will emerge . The system that emerged after World War II has already lost its potential . This is evidenced by the processes , conflicts , wars , and other events taking place in many places . At the same time , the political and moral crisis in leading Western countries is also obvious . In other words , the most critical of the situation facing the West today is the elected president of a leading Western country . And he is right in criticizing it . Because this system has already exhausted itself . I am not the one saying this . This is what Mr. Trump , who will become the President of America in a few days , is saying . Naturally , these gaps will widen further , and it is necessary for a new actor , a new serious player with a serious agenda , to emerge . For example , we believe that the Organization of Turkic States can become a serious power center on a global scale . Because it has vast geography , human resources , natural resources , transport and communications , and unity . I believe that D8 can also fill this gap . I repeat , more than 1 billion , perhaps 1.3 billion people , live in these countries . 60 percent of the economy of Muslim countries is in D8 , and 60 percent of the population is also in D8 countries . Therefore , this is an opportunity . We can not miss this opportunity , we can not waste time , and we become a member of this organization with this agenda . I believe that our ideas and proposals will be carefully considered . <p> Nigar Sabirgizi : Thank you very much . <p> Sanan Rzayev from CBC Television : Mr. President , our channel broadcasts in Russian . With your permission , I would like to ask you the question in Russian . <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Please , go ahead . <p> Sanan Rzayev : Mr. President , if we talk about last year , one of the landmark events was the liberation of four villages of Gazakh district from Armenian occupation . It is noteworthy that this , as it were , happened as a result of some form of dialogue between Yerevan and Baku . Moreover , in the same area , it was also possible to achieve the delimitation and demarcation of a certain section of the state border within a short period of time , which was actually surprising . I would like to know your opinion . What do you think was the key to success ? What made it possible ? What factors made this possible ? Because after all , we have a very complicated history of relations with Armenia , to put it mildly , and all of a sudden , there was this . <p> -- I would say that it happened as a result of a monologue rather than a dialogue . This is because it is clear that the dialogue with Armenia has failed for decades . Armenia 's policy of occupation did not allow for any dialogue , and they used the format of negotiations as a cover-up for continuing their occupation . And the information that recently appeared in the media , namely the fascist statements of the first president of Armenia , once again confirms what we have known for quite a long time in principle , that Armenia was not going to vacate a single centimeter of Azerbaijani territory . They felt quite comfortable , as they thought , receiving billions of dollars ' worth of free arms from one ally and political and moral support from the other two . Thus , all three co-chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group during the period for which I am responsible were unequivocally on the side of the occupier . I am telling you this as a person who has been conducting negotiations within the framework of the Minsk Group since 2004 and has met with this " troika " a great number of times . Therefore , of course , we could not expect to get these territories back through dialogue . Neither could we expect to restore our territorial integrity through dialogue . <p> I think there were several factors that led to Armenia voluntarily , well , let 's say voluntarily and coercively , returning these villages . The first is the Patriotic War and its results . The second is the anti-terror operation . I think that this should have completely dispelled any illusions the Armenian leadership may have had that someone would confront Azerbaijan together with them . My last demand about the four villages of the Gazakh district was put forward to the Armenian Prime Minister almost a year ago , in February last year . This topic had always been on the agenda since the end of the Second Karabakh War . Before that , there was no point in talking about that because the main issue of occupation had not been resolved . But as soon as the Trilateral Statement was signed , actually even before it was signed , this topic was constantly on the agenda . I will tell you more -- we also raised the topic of the occupied villages of the Gazakh district in the process of agreeing the conditions for the conclusion of the Trilateral Statement . It could not be done for certain reasons at that time , but we knew that we would achieve it in any case -- just as we knew that we would regain full control over all the territories . Because the 10 November 2020 Statement did not fully resolve the issue of occupation , as we all know very well . Therefore , acting with strategically rigid logic , we took steps consistently , purposefully and persistently . The Patriotic War , certain clarification of the conditional border between Azerbaijan and Armenia , the anti-terror operation and four villages of the Gazakh district . One of them was occupied during the Soviet Union in 1990 , while the other three were occupied in the spring of 1992 . So last February , at a meeting with the Prime Minister of Armenia in Munich , this issue was raised in the form of a monologue . I am glad that we did not have to resort to other methods in order to return these villages . I think that the lessons of the last four years are being taken into account by the Armenian side , though not fully memorized yet . So I think this is a good first step not only in the delimitation but also in the demarcation of the border , which I think is a unique situation when delimitation and demarcation take place almost at the same time . <p> So we achieved justice in this matter and regained our territories . I sent a group of specialists to these villages long ago . There is an issue of proximity to Armenian settlements there and there are certain threats in the event of escalation , so I have asked for the most secure place to be identified for the construction of housing for the residents of these villages , so that their safety could be ensured . Because having such an aggressive neighbor , we should first of all think about the safety of our population . <p> So I think that the process was as transparent as possible . It was also positively received by Armenia 's new patrons , because the demarcation process also took place . And , of course , it should give impetus to the clarification of the entire perimeter of the borders . The protocol that was agreed between the Armenian and Azerbaijani commissions on delimitation and demarcation says that many factors should be taken into account when clarifying the border : security , communications , settlements , historical factors , environmental factors , etc . That is , the existing conditional border between Armenia and Azerbaijan is not a dogma , and our position has always been that it needs to be clarified taking into account these and many other factors I mentioned . As far as I know , this month , we have at least put forward this initiative , the next meeting of the Azerbaijani and Armenian delimitation commissions should be held to continue the process of delimitation . We have our approach on methodology , we have given it to the Armenian side , and the verbal response we received , which has been reported to me , indicates that there are no particular objections from their side . So let 's wait and see . <p> Vafa Aghabalayeva from REAL Television : Mr. President , the strengthening of Azerbaijan as an independent country increases the resentment and anger of its enemies and rivals . We were further convinced of this by your commentary . The processes carried out by Western circles could likely be described as a form of cold war at this stage . My question will be about the new state budget of Azerbaijan . To be more specific , we are talking about the funds allocated for security and military issues . Just yesterday , Armenian military units once again fired at Azerbaijani territories . This is yet another provocation . How will these new expenses and those funds allocated for security issues serve to prevent revanchist tendencies from emerging in our Western neighbors , especially in terms of changing their constitution and abandoning claims to their neighbors ' territories ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Yes , you are absolutely right . I have already stated that the consequences of the Second Karabakh War and the anti-terror operation should be taken very seriously in Armenia . The ongoing armament of Armenia is , of course , a new threat factor for the South Caucasus . I have already said this and I want to say it again that we can not simply watch this as observers and do nothing . I have also repeatedly stated this to the Armenian leadership that this may create a new threat . At the same time , those who seem to be standing behind Armenia today and inciting them to new provocations and sabotage against Azerbaijan will most likely not stand behind them until the end . Just as they could not stand in 2020 and beyond . Not because they do not want to stand , but because Azerbaijan simply will not provide these opportunities . Therefore , a significant part of the state budget of Azerbaijan will be spent on military and security issues . I have already said this once : we are spending 4 billion manats on the restoration of Karabakh and East Zangezur and 8.4 billion manats on resolving military and security issues . It could have been completely different . Because Armenia 's arms race forces us to attract financial resources to military issues other than the main ones . I also stated that Armenia can not compete with us in the arms race . However , we must also take into account one issue here . These weapons are given to Armenia either for free or in the form of loans . Those loans are also written off after a certain period and also from the European Union 's notorious peace facility . Notorious , because the peace facility should actually be used for peace purposes . Their peace facility is aimed at armament . The first payment was made from there , and according to the information we have , this is not the last payment . <p> Another disturbing fact is that in April of last year , for the first time in history , a very strange cooperation platform was created -- America , the European Union and Armenia . As you know , the US Secretary of State , the President of the European Commission and the Foreign Minister , and the Prime Minister of Armenia met in Brussels and actually reached an agreement on a new cooperation . According to the information we have , the agreement reached before this meeting also included a military component , but after that it was officially removed from there , but de facto it remains there . This , in fact , excluded both the European Commission and the United States of America from the Azerbaijan-Armenia normalization process . We have already informed them about this . If any party takes sides , it can not be a fair mediator . That is why the request of the US Secretary of State remained in the air last month and Azerbaijan did not agree to a trilateral meeting . In addition , as you know , many meetings were held in Brussels at the initiative of the presidents of the European Commission and the Council of the European Union . This has now also been stopped . So we are in favor of a bilateral negotiation format , and of course , Azerbaijan will defend its position as a party to this issue . <p> Arming Armenia will simply lead to new tensions . We do not want this . We want peace . We want the war page to be closed . However , we see that both Armenia itself and its new patrons do not want this . They live with ideas of revenge , and Armenia is actually a source of threat to the region . The independent Armenian state is actually a fascist state . Because if this country has been led by proponents of fascist ideology for nearly 30 years , they have shaped this country the way they did . Now look , the racist and fascist statements of the first president of Armenia are as ugly as they are dangerous . He portrays ethnic cleansing as a source of pride , bragging about the expulsion of Azerbaijanis from their historical ancestral lands . This video , as they say , has now been made public . But , of course , they knew this in Armenia . Armenia 's allies and supporters , of course , knew and shared these views . The 30-year occupation policy against us is not simply a product of Armenia , but a joint product of Islamophobic , Azerbaijanophobic , racist , xenophobic circles , and representatives of foreign countries who are in solidarity with it . We are neighbors with such a fascist state , and the threat of fascism is not going away . Therefore , fascism must be destroyed . Either the Armenian leadership will destroy it or we will . We have no other choice . Again , 30 years of occupation , the suffering of our people , the Khojaly genocide , the ravaged and devastated Karabakh -- all this is before our eyes . Who can guarantee that this will not happen again ? No one ! Because the first three leaders of Armenia are proponents of fascist ideology . The current leader of Armenia , as I said , now wants to make a dove of peace out of himself . But look , no one wants to recall his speeches in 2018-2019 now . Even its friends in France do not want to give it up . So this ideology lives there , and its carriers are not just the current Armenian opposition , but the Armenian government . I want to say again that we can not just watch this as observers . Armenia must immediately stop arming . France and other countries that provide it with weapons must terminate and cancel these contracts . The weapons that have already been sent to Armenia must be returned . This is our condition . Let them take it as they please . I give my word , they know it , and those behind them know that if we say something , then we are already taking this issue very seriously . <p> I hope that all our conditions regarding the peace treaty will be accepted . Because there are no extraordinary issues in these conditions . The abolition of the Minsk Group , the amendment of the constitution -- without these , a peace treaty is impossible . If Armenia does not need a peace treaty , we do not need it either . We can live and conduct our own policy without signing it . In other words , I would still advise the Armenian side to weigh everything up , including geopolitical changes in the world . Their close friends are being shamefully removed from the political scene . Yesterday , news came that Mr. Trudeau , a close friend of Armenia and Pashinyan , also had to resign . This country , which was very anti-Azerbaijani during and after the Second Karabakh War , is not far from France . As for France , what is happening on the political scene there now ? Everyone can see that . Yesterday , the French president made further absurd accusations against Azerbaijan . It seems that Mr. Macron can not live without Azerbaijan . He has some kind of mania and wants to blame all his sins on us . I think that if we have become so strong that we can interfere in the internal affairs of France and change something , we can simply be proud of it . In fact , this statement is an admission of his own helplessness . A president of a great state suffers from the actions of a country with a population of 10 million located far away in the Caucasus region . However , we have nothing to do with the internal affairs of France . Simply put , this was brought about by wrong approaches and irrelevant policies . In other words , Armenia should take this very seriously . The Soros era has ended in America as well . The Biden administration was , in fact , governed by the Soros method of governance . It is no coincidence that one of Biden 's last decisions was to present Soros with America 's highest award . In other words , these supporters of Soros are actually losing their positions . The Armenian leadership should take this into account . Let them take into account that their close ally in the Middle East , the Assad dictatorship , has already been consigned to the dustbin of history and this will continue , so they should take the right step . We , as Azerbaijan , are not a source of danger for them . We want peace and cooperation in the South Caucasus . They should not be in the way . They should not act as a geographical barrier between T ? rkiye and Azerbaijan . The Zangezur corridor must and will be opened . The sooner they understand this , the better it is . Why should we have to go to Nakhchivan , an integral part of Azerbaijan , through different ways ? We should have a direct connection , and this connection does not question Armenia 's sovereignty . Simply put , they should fulfill the provisions of the 19 November Statement . Everything is explicitly stated there . We have been showing patience for more than four years . For more than four years , we have wanted this to be resolved through negotiations . How long will we have to wait and why should we wait ? In other words , they should take all this into account . I once said that they should not upset us and understand that we are the ones who have the say here and that Azerbaijan is the leading economy , the leading military power and the leading state in the South Caucasus . In today 's world , the power factor is at the forefront and no one should forget this . <p> Vusal Matlab : Mr. President , I would like to ask a follow-up to what you said . Armenia 's arms race and the serious attempts to arm Armenia by some countries and forces certainly pose a serious threat to the security of the region . However , there is another issue that interests and worries us . The issue of our Great Return and reconstruction . Will these developments not hinder our great return ? Will it not be delayed ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Of course , it does hinder it to a certain extent . Because a lot of money is allocated for military and security issues . If it were not for Armenia 's armament policy , I can say that not 8.4 , but perhaps 4 billion manats would have been enough for military and security issues , if we were not facing a potential threat . Therefore , of course , a part of this money would have gone to the restoration of Karabakh , a part would have gone to the development of other regions , and a part would have gone to social programs . However , despite this , the restoration of Karabakh and East Zangezur is one of the most important priorities for us , along with military issues . Next year , at least 4 billion manats will be allocated . But I think we can mobilize more . We have managed to return former IDPs to 10 settlements in three years , and this has already been reported in the media . More than 10,000 IDPs have already been provided with houses and are living there . In total , about 30,000 people live there and work in various positions , in construction , state affairs , and other areas . <p> Our plans for next year are to return former IDPs to about 20 more settlements . The names of those cities and villages have already been selected , and projects are underway . Construction work is currently underway in many villages and cities , and by the end of this year , former IDPs will be settled in about 30 settlements . We will probably complete the main infrastructure projects in a year or two . Most of the funds are going to these projects . Because more than 60 kilometers of tunnels , bridges , power plants , and reservoirs are under construction . We have already launched more than 30 hydroelectric power plants there , built railways . So , all this is the main financial burden . In about two to three years , the main infrastructure projects will be completed , and then even more will be channeled into the creation of the housing stock . But still , if we look at world history , we will see that no country that suffered from occupation and destruction has restored its territories at this pace and with this quality . So , we are showing both professionalism and a very serious approach here . It is not just about financial resources . That is , there may be resources , but you must have human potential . We have also invested heavily in personnel training in recent years , and our technical capabilities are also extensive . Most of the work carried out there is done by Azerbaijani companies . Turkish companies are in second place . They are mostly involved in tunnels , bridges , and railway projects . So , we have very serious technical potential , human potential , financial resources , and a well-thought-out policy . I must also note that the design and construction of all settlements meet the highest standards . Now , you can look at any settlement and see how comfortable the houses are , whether they are apartments or private houses , along with all the infrastructure and workplaces . Two industrial parks are already operating . Notice that the products of the industrial park created in the city of Aghdam are now exported abroad . The city was destroyed , but industrial enterprises are already operating here and exporting products abroad . <p> I said immediately after the war that we would turn Karabakh into a paradise . In fact , this place is already a paradise due to its natural structure and beauty . But with modern infrastructure , residential areas , workplaces , and comfort , this place will truly become one of the most beautiful places in the world . This is a very large geography . Both Karabakh and East Zangezur , and at the same time , the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic , which is not so far from it , should become a single large space in terms of economy , social , green energy , and security , while these are three regions in our geography . At the same time , these historically interconnected regions are currently developing on the basis of a single concept . For example , this year we are also starting to prepare the master plans of the cities of Nakhchivan and Ordubad . In the following years , we will start preparing the master plans of other cities in the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic . All settlements in Karabakh and East Zangezur are built based on a single master plan . This will serve as an example . Then we will apply this to other regions of our country . So governance , infrastructure , and green energy projects there will cover the entire country . These are our plans . I can , of course , speak in more detail , but I will limit myself to giving general figures , given the time constraints . But I think that Azerbaijani television and other media are covering the processes taking place there sufficiently . Of course , I would like them to cover them even more . Because something changes there every day , something is built every day , and former IDPs return there every week . Therefore , the more our media are interested in the processes taking place in that region and cover them , the better it will be . <p> Sanan Rzayev : Mr. President , this is a partial continuation of the topic that was picked up by colleagues and what you said about France . There is a really strange and amazing situation there . The speech of the President of France , which you are talking about , if very briefly . It turns out that all the problems of France come from Azerbaijan . This is surprising . Therefore , I would like to ask a few questions . First , as the head of state , taking into account what has been happening in Azerbaijani-French relations over the last few years , have we reached some limit of deterioration of these relations or is there more to come ? This is one question . The second question : I would like you to explain this to us a little more broadly . You spoke about the reactions of the French President . Do you see , this may sounds a little odd , some kind of a personal factor in this issue , perhaps some personal reflections of the French President with regard to Azerbaijan ? Because , you know , sometimes it is not quite clear what France 's surplus is from this situation , And the last question : because the history of Azerbaijani-French relations is so long , there have been ups and downs . Do you agree with the opinion that Azerbaijan has become , in a sense , an internal political agenda in France , i.e. a French politician has to speak out about Azerbaijan ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Unfortunately , this is the case . I will start with the last question . If there is a consensus in French political circles , it is a consensus only on Azerbaijanophobia . Unfortunately , not only the incumbent government , but also those who have ambitions to come to power do not differ much from each other . It would be enough to recall the illegal trips to Karabakh back in the period when Russian peacekeepers were there . Those were the opponents of the current French President -- the mayor of Paris , who , by the way , ran for election , the governor of the region where Paris is located , she was also a rival of President Macron in the elections , and Mr. Barnier , who briefly was in the post of Prime Minister recently . He also distinguished himself there . So they needed to make their mark . It is hard for me to say where the root of the matter lies , but there is probably some kind of synthesis . Islamophobia and xenophobia , in general , are distinctive features of the French political class . And not only that . By the way , anti-Semitism too -- it is well known to everyone . Plus , there is Armenian influence , the Armenian lobby , and everyone wants to distinguish themselves in front of the Armenian communities and get some dividends , both now and in the future . And they realize that being in power may be short-term , in some cases even evanescent . So securing support for the future and say that " I am one of yours " , this factor is probably also present . <p> Many , including , I think , the leaders of the ruling class , perceived our Victory in 2020 as their own defeat . Although there was no reason to think so . But for some reason , as you have described it , they took it personally . I am saying this on the basis of my experience with representatives of France . Although I always tried to explain to them that this has nothing to do with you . In principle , we had nothing against you and did nothing . It was you who went against us . During the 44-day war , I do n't remember how many times , six or seven , I received calls from the French President , attempts to stop the liberation struggle . After that , there were attempts to threaten us , there were threats to recognize " Nagorno-Karabakh " . Now , when our relations have fallen below the basement floor , I can say this , but I answered that any country , it was after November 2020 , which recognizes the so-called " Nagorno-Karabakh " , will immediately receive a note from us on the severance of diplomatic relations . That was my answer . And immediately the topic of recognizing the so-called " Nagorno-Karabakh " went off the agenda . They went in a different direction , recognized it through the Senate , through the Parliament , then they tried to justify themselves for a long time by saying that the authorities had nothing to do with that . In general , it is an old story . The second factor is personal perhaps , although I have never had any likes or dislikes in politics . What I thought , I always kept to myself and never even showed my attitude towards those who deserved it -- I mean negative attitude . I think that another factor here is the political immaturity of the French leadership . I had the opportunity to work and communicate with three French presidents before Mr. Macron , and the relations between our countries have always developed very successfully . If we take the EU member states , those were probably the most active relations in that period before the current government -- political , mutual visits , economic and cultural . We had twinning relations with 13 cities of France . There were so many cultural events . <p> But when we talk about political immaturity , we have to look at the biographies -- the biography of President Chirac , the experience of his public work , work in the government , in the party , leading a city like Paris . The experience of President Sarkozy , who has also come a long way in state structures , reaching the post of one of the key ministers , the Minister of the Interior , which in France is much broader than in our understanding . Or President Hollande , who led a party , went all the way up to becoming a candidate and then President . And then you look at the biography of the current President . I do n't want to go any further into that . So , I think there has been an exaggeration of one 's own role and some kind of complete association of the country with oneself , which should not happen . The country is separate and the president is separate . If a country is great , any country , then the president should strive to be like it . If a country is backward and the president is kind of progressive , then he should pull the country up to his level . So these are the factors , I think . But again , if there is a personal factor , it was definitely not initiated by Azerbaijan . <p> Is there a limit to not falling below the basement floor ? It is hard to say . I will tell you one more thing , which we have never talked about in principle , but I think it will help somehow get out of the crisis . Over the past few months , we have been receiving signals from representatives of the French government to establish contacts -- I remember there have been three or four of them -- from different personalities to our different representatives , and the answer has always been , " We are ready " . Yes , we are ready today , but we will not go anywhere , neither to Paris nor to Brussels . If you need to meet with us , you can meet with us here in Baku . But at some stage , there is a vacuum and silence again . <p> There was recently another diplomatic dispatch , let 's say a verbal one : to talk and discuss . Again , we are ready , we have nothing to dispute with them , we have no claims to this country . The main thing is that they do not touch us , do not interfere in our affairs and do not interfere in the affairs of the South Caucasus . This is already a demand we are articulating quite clearly . Because wherever the French authorities interfere , first of all , they fail shamefully , and secondly , they only introduce intrigue . Nothing but intrigue . There is no point in talking about Africa , everything is in plain sight , as they say . The same applies to the South Caucasus . In Azerbaijan , their presence is practically reduced to zero , except for some companies that have a long-term contract . And we always respect all our obligations , so we have never extrapolated political difficulties to the operations of companies . The French companies still operating here should not be blamed for having such a government . The attempts to destabilize Georgia are obvious . It is no secret that it was done so undiplomatically and publicly that it is even surprising for a country with such diplomatic traditions . And full control over Armenia is also a reality . But it is not going to work , and they have to realize that if they want some kind of presence in the South Caucasus . They have to talk to us . We will see . Anyway , I have revealed a little bit more than I usually do , but given your question and given that we did n't go below the basement , I think it will be useful for everybody to have some new information . <p> Sanan Rzayev : Thank you . <p> Nigar Sabirgizi : Mr. President , my next question will be about relations with Iran . I believe that your views on this issue might be interesting to everyone . Recently , in the last few years , Iranian-Azerbaijani relations have been going through ups and downs . Sometimes this country exhibits incomprehensible behavior towards Azerbaijan , which causes certain tensions between the two countries . Just a few days ago , the Foreign Ministry of Azerbaijan expressed its protest to the Iranian side regarding another manifestation of such behavior . I would like to know your assessment of the current Azerbaijani-Iranian relations and what policy you expect from the current Iranian leadership in the future ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : It is a bit early to talk about this . Because we have not had any serious contacts with the current Iranian leadership yet . There have been certain contacts between members of the government . They were more related to economic and transport issues -- the issues that , in principle , are separate from our political agenda . We never mix them . <p> Again , the deterioration of our relations with the previous government was not our fault . I simply want to recall some points . After the end of the Second Karabakh War , when we secured visual observation of the Lachin road , we began to see that fuel trucks from Iran were regularly making trips to Karabakh from Armenia . I instructed my assistant , and he spoke to the then-Iranian Ambassador to Azerbaijan on the phone and asked him to stop this . We do n't want to make this public , so we are asking you to stop . This is not good , we are seeing this , and this is our territory . You are doing illegal things here . Unfortunately , this did not stop after that and only intensified . Then , as a second step , we invited the Iranian Ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and gave him a note of protest and made this public . <p> This was followed by both funny and sad developments . Fake Armenian license plates were pasted on Iranian fuel trucks , as if they were Armenian . But there were also Persian inscriptions on them . This surprised us very much . And we started investigating . We saw that the same license plate was attached to several vehicles , i.e. the number was the same , but the vehicles were different . In other words , this fraud was so sloppy that one is truly lost for words . After that , we stopped a vehicle , the drivers were stopped , and we saw that their travel documents state Stepanakert , Armenia . In other words , this was a clear disrespect for our territorial integrity and sovereignty . <p> After that , the well-known steps towards intimidation , exercises , statements and threats against us began . We also took commensurate steps . If any training , military training is held on our border , we did the same on this side of the Azerbaijani-Iranian border . In other words , we showed that we are not afraid of anyone and that we are the right side . At the same time , this was accompanied by a campaign of insults in the press . Because this , apparently , is the style of work of some ruling circles . In fact , insults are a symbol of powerlessness . If you can not achieve something -- I mean people who are rude -- they resort to insults . The one using insults actually insults himself . <p> Then came the news of the settlement of the issue by Iran and other reports . Then an act of terror was committed against our embassy , it was an organized terrorist act . There were many factors that gave grounds to say this . First , for about 40 minutes , not a single police car approached the building although this was happening in the center of the capital . The person who committed the terror was declared mentally ill immediately , the next day . However , any medical examination takes several days . This person appeared in the press on the very day he committed the terror and gave interviews . Two years have passed since that incident . To this day , that person has not been made to undergo the sentence handed down in relation to him . All this shows that it was organized . It was a show of weakness , and the Azerbaijani side also took adequate steps . You know that we recalled all our embassy employees , and only when we were officially promised -- the late Iranian Foreign Minister , Mr. Abdollahian , who died in a helicopter crash , came here and promised to me that the person would be sentenced to death -- did we return the embassy employees . But they deceived us again . Because this death sentence was not executed , the case was sent back to court for investigation . In other words , this was an incomprehensible act at the state level , and we insist on our demands . We know that death sentences in Iran are pronounced for less serious crimes and are immediately executed . But here , two years later , not only has it not been carried out , the case has actually been sent back for further investigation . <p> So this is one side of the issue . It is difficult to analyze the relations with the new government because I have not personally met with the new President . If and when it happens , then I can talk about it . <p> As for the provincial mullah 's hateful attitude towards us , this is not the first time . That mullah from the city of Ardabil has repeatedly used insulting expressions against Azerbaijan , the Azerbaijani people , including me . The question here is what the attitude of the person who appointed him to that position is . After all , he did not come and sit there on his own . We know very well who appointed him . What is his reaction , does he support this or not , and who will apologize to Azerbaijan ? Will they apologize or not ? <p> The regret in the statement of the Iranian Foreign Ministry is not enough . There was an open insult : both the presidents of T ? rkiye and Azerbaijan , our peoples , and during a live broadcast at an official event . And only regret ? This , of course , is unacceptable . Therefore , we believe that the provincial mullah should be punished . At the very least , he should be dismissed from his post and made to apologize to Azerbaijan . This is the point . <p> Nigar Sabirgizi : Thank you very much . <p> Guy Shawn : Mr. President , Azerbaijan has increased its gas exports to many countries in Europe -- Italy , Greece , Hungary , and T ? rkiye . Could you tell us about your vision for Azerbaijan in helping to secure energy resources for Europe in the future ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Yes , our gas exports are growing , and we are now expanding the geography of gas supplies using different infrastructure projects , the main one being the Southern Gas Corridor , but also extensions . Due to the new interconnectors , which have been inaugurated relatively recently in Europe , our access to different markets is possible . <p> In 2022 , as you know , when the Russian-Ukrainian war led to disruption of Russian gas supplies to Europe , the European Commission turned to Azerbaijan , asking us to help . At that time , the President of the European Commission came to Baku , here exactly we were signing that declaration just outside this room . So we said , " Okay , we are ready to help you and to increase , to double our gas supply to Europe . " At that time , our gas supply to Europe was 7 billion cubic meters . <p> And we started to work on that . We started to invest and look for opportunities to move our gas through different interconnectors . Since then , the number of countries in Europe that are now recipients of our gas has grown , and now it 's equal to 10 . So , in total , it 's 12 countries , and 10 of them are European , with eight out of the 10 being EU members . So , we expanded the geography , and increased the volume of gas . For many countries , members of the European Union , Azerbaijani gas now makes about half of their domestic consumption . This is really a serious support , which we demonstrate to our partners in Europe . Our future plans are to expand the geography . We are already in negotiations with some other European countries , which are close to those already receiving our gas . I think that is possible in the coming years . <p> But again , since 2022 until now , it has been a dramatic change . Because at that time , our gas exports were limited to Georgia , T ? rkiye , Greece , and Italy -- that was it . Then , we added Bulgaria , Hungary , Romania , Serbia , North Macedonia , Slovakia , Croatia , and Hungary . All of this happened in a relatively short period of time . So , we have resources , because our proven resources are growing . Many years ago , they were estimated at the level of 2.6 trillion cubic meters , but now , with new discoveries and more to come , it will be more . This year , we hope to get the first gas from ACG , the so-called " Deep Gas " project , which will be a substantial contribution to overall gas production . We are planning to work with the partners in order to increase gas production from the Absheron field from 1.5 to 5 BCM , understanding that the main supply of gas will still be Shah Deniz , which will remain as it is ; and many more promising projects like Karabakh , Babek , Asiman , and others . This will increase our potential . <p> So now , the main issue is how to get to new destinations . For that , there should be additional investments in Europe in order to expand the existing interconnectors or maybe to build more . Even now , with the coverage of 12 countries by pipeline gas , Azerbaijan , I think , is now one of the leading countries in the world with such a broad geography , and in Europe , also one of the leading countries with respect to geography . Because geography is as important as volume . Because for some countries , even 1 billion cubic meters makes a lot of difference . So , we treat our commitments with a high level of responsibility . Of course , in answering this question , I can not avoid one issue that must also be addressed . We invest a lot , and we try to help the European Union cope with the shortage of gas . At the same time , we are facing a situation where European banks are no longer financing fossil fuel projects . On one hand , they ask us for additional supply . On the other hand , they deprive us of resources . For instance , the European Investment Bank has completely stopped financing fossil fuel projects . The EBRD , as far as I know , still has a very small share . If this continues , then there will be no means to invest , because in this business , you use your corporate financing for about 30% , but you borrow the rest of the money . So , where are we going to borrow the money from ? Or Europeans want to build interconnectors between themselves ? So , this is an issue , I think , that should be addressed , and the second , not the second , but another issue is the timetable for supplies . Because with the green transition , the share of fossil fuels in the European Union area will go down . So , what will happen ? There are a lot of open issues , and we are dealing with them in regular consultations with European officials . If the European Union needs more gas from us , they should also do their homework . We are doing ours . They should do theirs . <p> Nigar Sabirgizi : Mr. President , your perspective on what is happening in the Middle East is interesting . 2024 was marked by wars in Gaza and Lebanon , Iran-Israel tensions , the overthrow of the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria , and the current Turkish factor at play in the Middle East . In this regard , I would like to learn your views on what is happening in that region . <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Yes , we are very happy that changes have taken place in Syria and , of course , with the relations between T ? rkiye and the new Syrian government . Because Syria is a country bordering T ? rkiye , and every country wants to see a stable situation beyond its borders . In particular , T ? rkiye , which is suffering from terrorism , PKK terrorism , rightly demands the elimination of terrorism on the other side of its borders , and not only demands it but is also achieving it . I have already expressed my views on this issue . T ? rkiye 's role in the development of Syria is , of course , very important . After the collapse of the Assad regime , I called President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , and we congratulated each other on this occasion . I also stated that we are ready to stand by T ? rkiye and have already started doing so . With T ? rkiye 's support , the first aid convoy was sent . Because without T ? rkiye 's support , without its logistical support , this would not have been possible . Also , the dispatch of our Foreign Ministry delegation there was also done with the support of T ? rkiye . In other words , we want to make our contribution here to put an end to terrorism , at least on this border of T ? rkiye , and I believe this will be a very serious geopolitical change , leading to the establishment of peace , stability , and cooperation in a large geography . Of course , there should be no place for terrorism along any of T ? rkiye 's borders . As an ally of T ? rkiye , we always stand with them in any form , and the Turkish side knows this . Just as T ? rkiye is with us in any form and on every issue , so are we with it . Our Declaration on Allied Relations grows stronger with new elements every day . Returning to the question you just asked about D8 , T ? rkiye was the one who supported us the most . T ? rkiye was the first to congratulate us . Therefore , whatever is in T ? rkiye 's interest , it is in our interest too . Our security is the same , our interests are the same , and our future is the same . Both in the Middle East and , at the same time , in Europe -- we touched on this issue a little -- a completely new situation is emerging , a strong Turkish factor will play a key role here . We are with T ? rkiye . In other words , our power will increase even more . The vast geography encompassing Europe , Asia , the South Caucasus , and the Caspian Basin is already a serious geopolitical factor in itself . Military power , political power , economic potential , unity , and today it is impossible to see countries so interconnected as T ? rkiye and Azerbaijan anywhere in the world . Therefore , we are very hopeful , and the changes in Syria make us very happy . First for T ? rkiye and secondly for ourselves . Because for 12 years , we have had no relations with Syria . Our embassy was withdrawn from there . During the Assad era , Syria always sided with Armenia . It was actually united with Armenia against us . It is enough to look at the letters Pashinyan sent to Assad , the official delegations he sent -- the Minister of Foreign Affairs , the Speaker of the Parliament , and his deputy . They considered Syria a close ally , and that has now ended . <p> Our position on the Israeli-Palestinian issue remains unchanged . We have always been in favor of the creation , i.e. the existence of two states . The creation of an independent Palestinian state will put an end to this conflict . I think everyone should understand this . As you know , we have been supporting the Palestinian state for many years -- politically , morally , and materially -- and this continues . The Palestinian embassy has been operating in Azerbaijan for many years . We have also opened a representative office in Palestine , and of course , the sooner this conflict ends and a ceasefire is declared in Gaza , the better it will be for everyone . We wish for this , and we also take the activities of the Islamic League as a basis here . Because this is more of an issue for the Arab world , and the Arab League is the organization representing the Arab world , and whatever its position is , we share it . We have actively participated in all the events of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and will continue to do so . In other words , our position is completely clear . <p> Vafa Aghabalayeva : Mr. President , our world is changing , our cities are changing , and of course , the system of governance is changing . Azerbaijan is also a part of the world and , of course , is not left out of these processes . For example , heads of the executive authority are replaced by special representatives of the president , holdings are created to run large organizations from a single platform , etc . My question is related to your Order . What goal does the establishment of the Azerbaijan Transport and Communication Holding ( AZCON ) serve and , in general , what are your expectations from this institution ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Over the past few years , a new model of governance has been applied to state-owned companies . Boards of directors have been created , state officials have been appointed to the positions of heads of boards of directors . Thus , the problems of state-owned companies were fully revealed . For many years , state-owned companies , unfortunately , were not only natural monopolies , but also loss-making companies . There were many reasons for that . The main reason was the flaws and violations in governance . To put an end to this , a decision has already been made by me , and a new governance model has been created in all companies -- there are not many of them , there are about 10 state-owned companies -- and we have immediately begun to see positive aspects of this . SOCAR , which was operating at a loss for many years and yet kept applying to the state budget is now operating at a profit . Azerbaijan Airlines , which was operating at a loss for many years and yet kept receiving subsidies from the state , is now operating at a profit , and if I am not mistaken , last year 's income was at the level of several hundred million manats . Now it will meet its own needs . The same holds true for the railway administration . Other companies that used to receive government aid for many years now operate with an income of approximately 100-150 million manats . So this was the first stage . That stage of consolidation and personnel reform has already ended . As for AZCON , its goal is to create the transport sector as a platform under a single umbrella . Because although the positive changes I mentioned in governance did take place , coordination between transport institutions was weak , and considering that our main source of income and one of the factors strengthening our political weight will be transport and connectivity in the coming years , of course , we had to create a fully transparent and coordinated mechanism here . There are many examples , for instance , related to freight transportation -- for the Caspian Shipping Company , it is more profitable to transport one type of cargo , for the railway , it is more profitable to transport a different type of cargo . To what extent does the port play the role of an intermediary mechanism here ? Therefore , the goal is to prioritize which cargo is transported and how it is transported based on the interests of the state . In parallel , the process of digitalization of the transport sector is underway . Necessary measures have been taken and instructions have been given in this direction , including the ability of the sender to constantly monitor his cargo during customs clearance , and artificial obstacles , violations , as well as natural delays , will be eliminated . Because we must make the East-West transport corridor more economically viable through the correct regulation of tariffs . We must also eliminate artificial obstacles so that cargo can be transported even faster . <p> As for tariffs , there is one tariff for the railway , one for the international port , and one for shipping , and there is a discrepancy between these tariffs . There are many other details that necessitated the creation of a unified system , and we have created it . I am sure that the institution to be formed will soon prove effective . In parallel , urban transport problems are also in sight . We once implemented a number of major projects to ease urban transport and reduce traffic jams . Many people may have forgotten about it now , the younger generation may not even know about that . There were so many problems in the past , even the number of circles people had to make to get from here to the city -- the Mardakan roundabout , the Sabunchu roundabout , the Koroghlu roundabout , then the Surakhani roundabout , there traffic jams at every roundabout , the airport-city road had only four lanes , but it actually had three lanes . The second road , what we call a concrete road , did not exist at all . It would take time to list these . This is why a number of tunnels and road junctions were built in the past . But now we see that the number of vehicles is still increasing , people are buying more cars , and economic activity is increasing . Again , the city is beginning to choke on traffic jams . This is why this issue was highlighted as an assignment by me . The master plan has actually been prepared now . There are issues of coordination between bus transport and metro here . We have recently put several metro stations into operation . But this is not enough , and 10 new metro stations will be built on my instructions . Their locations have also been selected , and starting this year , investments will be made . At the same time , the first seven to eight projects have already been selected to implement new road infrastructure projects in Baku . International experts have been involved . Which roads should we give priority to ? Sometimes a new road is opened , but it leads to an increase in traffic jams , not a decrease . In other words , international experience is very important here , and this issue will definitely be resolved . <p> Also , the process of replacing the city bus fleet with electric buses has also begun . We have already brought more than 150 new electric buses . At the same time , electric bus production will also begin in Azerbaijan this year . This work is underway . According to the information I have received , the first electric buses produced in Azerbaijan will be used in October-November , and this will have a very positive impact on the air in our city . Because we know that the biggest source of air pollution is vehicles , especially large vehicles . <p> Other projects are also underway . Just for your information , we are now installing electronic scales on our highways . We started this last year , and this process will be continued this year . Scales will be installed on all highways . Because what happens is that a new road is built , but then some business people load their trucks so much that they destroy the road . Therefore , after the first electronic scales were installed , this has already been stopped . Because large fines are applied . Now freight companies themselves measure the weight of the cargo in order to avoid fines . <p> Many innovations based on modern technologies are and will be implemented . Perhaps the Azerbaijani media should also cover this a bit more . Because these are issues that legitimately worry people . Therefore , we will put these things in order . It will probably take five years to build 10 stations . But it will take less to build roads . Naturally , the Azerbaijani public will be regularly updated about these issues . <p> Vusal Matlab : At the beginning of the interview , you mentioned that we are at the beginning of the formation of a new world order . We would like to know what possible impacts this order could have on the South Caucasus and what scenarios Azerbaijan is preparing for ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : In fact , we must be active participants in this process . We should not just wait to see how the new order will unfold . We must do our work and continue to implement our agenda . Because the South Caucasus is our region , and Azerbaijan , as the leading country in this area , certainly has a special weight from the perspective of responsibility . Therefore , we see the new order as a just order . If it can be expressed in one word , it should be justice , which actually aligns with the policy that Azerbaijan has pursued for many years . This is how we see it now : sovereignty , independence , non-interference in each other 's affairs , and not aggravating the internal situation of countries under various pretexts . All of this is , in fact , the line of our foreign policy . Azerbaijan has pursued this policy for many years . We do not interfere in anyone 's affairs ; we focus on our own work . When someone approaches us , we strive not to leave those requests unanswered . With our policy and investments , we have effectively created a new transportation and energy map in the South Caucasus . One side of us stretches across the Caspian Sea to Central Asia , and the other to Europe . In this vast geography , Azerbaijan is effectively becoming an indispensable country . It is enough to simply look at the map for everyone to see that Azerbaijan , which seeks to connect Central Asia and the Western world , can not be bypassed . They can not achieve this without us , with modern infrastructure , stability , a well-thought-out policy , and openness to the world . In other words , we are contributing to the new world order with our actions because sometimes this may go unnoticed . But I know that Azerbaijan 's actions in recent years are being analyzed very thoroughly , very seriously . Because , in world history , there has been no second country that restored its territorial integrity by its own strength , at least if we look at the recent and mid-past . We have done this , despite all the pressures , threats , and dangers . The number of countries capable of pursuing an independent foreign policy is not that many . Look , now we return to Canada again . With one word from Trump , the Prime Minister of Canada resigned . After all , Canada produces 10 times more oil than Azerbaijan -- 300 million tons , and its population is only 40 million . So , can 300 million tons of oil , even without other economic factors , be enough to sustain a population of 40 million ? Look at how bad their economy is , that if America imposes additional tariffs on them , their economy will collapse . And when Mr. Trump says that Canada should be the 51st state and Mr. Trudeau should be the governor , of course , this can be considered trolling . But in fact , there might be some logic in these words . What I 'm saying is , look at the European countries , how dependent they are on power centers and sometimes on other factors . Therefore , there are not many countries capable of conducting independent foreign policy . That is why our policy in this area justifiably increases the respect towards us , and I am confident that when the new world order fully takes shape , Azerbaijan 's position will be considered , at least in the South Caucasus and the Caspian region , and we must be prepared for that . <p> Of course , how this process will unfold on a global scale , I can not say . Perhaps this still has not been fully defined , as they say . But this is undeniable , and I believe we will see this soon , and I have said this several times . If each country focuses on its internal affairs , there will be no war , no conflict , and no confrontation . Everyone should focus on their own business within their borders and not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries . Of course , such a world might seem fantastical . Historically , imperialist forces have approached this with the " divide and rule " principle , completely controlling colonies and stealing their resources to create states for themselves . But this must end , and the disgusting practice of colonialism must be brought to an end . I believe that this issue will also be considered in the new world order . However , I believe even more that the sovereignty of nations must be inviolable and protected , and no one should interfere in anyone else 's affairs . We have achieved this . No one can interfere in our affairs . Have there been attempts ? Yes , there have been . Will there be ? Probably . Have there been results ? No , and there will not be . But many countries right in front of our eyes are subjected to foreign intervention , and this actually shakes the moral and genetic code of the countries . Weak countries are subjected to foreign values , negative values . When I say weak , a country can not be weak . If the leaders are weak , then the country is considered weak . That is why we are prepared for this with our own agenda , and we have an agenda . Our policy already demonstrates this , and again , I say , our contribution to this matter will be significant . <p> Vafa Aghabalayeva : Mr. President , I believe this question will be relevant to the topic , so I would like to address it . A strange tendency has emerged ; everyone is waiting for January 20 -- Trump 's inauguration . They think that after that , certain processes will take place . In your interview with the " Rossiya Segodnya " agency , you mentioned that you see Trump in the same boat as us . Also , at the Shusha Media Forum , in response to one of the questions addressed to you , we heard positive messages about Trump , who was still a candidate at that time . What do you think , or let me phrase the question this way : Do you think Joe Biden has changed the world in such a way that Trump 's job will be difficult ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : It is possible . However , at the same time , Mr. Trump comes to power with a completely new agenda , and during his first term , there was no issue in U.S.-Azerbaijan relations . On the contrary , the relations were very positive , and we were able to make progress in many areas . The main mistake of the Biden administration regarding Azerbaijan was that it turned U.S.-Azerbaijan relations into a casualty of U.S.-Armenia relations . In other words , they approached Azerbaijan through the lens of the Armenia-Azerbaijan or U.S.-Armenia relations , and the good results achieved up until that point were overshadowed , which is the first point . Secondly , they demonstrated an unfair stance towards Azerbaijan , particularly regarding the Karabakh issue , and this was both an unjust and a position based on double standards . Because I have repeatedly told American representatives , and said it openly , even in the media : you support Ukraine 's territorial integrity with both hands , you provide weapons and billions of dollars . We have restored our territorial integrity , why do you want to punish us ? Answer that . And there was no response . The answer is clear : it is double standards . At the same time , I believe one of the mistakes of the Biden administration was that it significantly undermined trust in America through its own actions . For example , if we return to the Afghanistan issue , Azerbaijan was one of the first countries to join the mission in Afghanistan , sending military contingents and increasing them multiple times . Azerbaijan also resolved critical transportation and logistics issues for the United States . Until they needed us , the section 907 , sanction , was waived , but when we were no longer needed , it was applied . What does this mean ? It has a name : ingratitude . This is ingratitude , and what trust can there be ? What long-term cooperation can there be ? As I mentioned earlier , Soros ' being awarded with this high honor tore away all the masks . This was the Soros government , both during Biden 's term and during the eight years before Trump , and precisely because of this , there has been no progress in our relations . We established the main serious cooperation platform with America during the Clinton and George Bush administrations , and this continued during Trump 's term . Therefore , there is hope . I said at the Shusha Forum , back in July -- nobody knew who would win or lose , and those famous Trump-Biden debates had n't even been held yet -- that , simply from Azerbaijan 's interests and as an individual , I expressed my position that Trump promotes the values shared by our society . Family values , moral values -- he promotes these values . Just look at his family . Now , I do n't want to say anything about others ' families , but it has become so public now . Also , what can we call the Biden administration 's lying , making promises , then retracting them and acting as if nothing happened ? What can this be called ? That 's why not only Azerbaijani society but the hopes of all countries lie in the fact that this immorality , this lack of ethics will come to an end , and societies , such as Azerbaijan , which are based on traditional values , will be able to shake off these external influences . That 's the first point . The second is , as I have said , Mr. Trump sends very clear , direct messages with his statements . Now , it might not be possible to analyze all of them , but I can say that the vast majority of them are shared by Azerbaijani society . Therefore , hopes are high . That 's why I said that there is hope , there is great hope . This includes the possibility of advancing U.S.-Azerbaijan strategic relations . I believe that if both sides are interested , we can elevate U.S.-Azerbaijan relations to a strategic level . <p> Sanan Rzayev : Mr. President , I have a question about Azerbaijan 's relations with the European Union . History shows that these relations have not been homogeneous , with various moments of change . Last year , the composition of the European Parliament , which just prints resolutions on Azerbaijan en masse , changed . There is a relatively new composition of the European Commission , which includes some older members and some new ones . You have said a few words about that . There are fairly contradictory moments . On one hand , the European Union is our largest trade partner , meaning the member states of the European Union , but on the other hand , there is this so-called Peace Fund , through which they are planning to pump money for arms , or arms directly , to Armenia . Also , on the one hand , when answering the questions of my colleagues , you spoke about the energy sector and that we are supplying them with gas . They need gas . But on the other , there are , let 's say , representatives of the European Union , the so-called civilian mission , looking at our country through binoculars . All this is quite contradictory . I would like to know what your expectations this year are from the point of view of Azerbaijan and the European Union . What will outweigh -- these negative aspects or the positive ones ? And what is , in your opinion , the main antidote to this situation ? Because there may be an impression that this fund , these so-called observers , they are just dragged here to spoil our relations with Brussels . <p> President Ilham Aliyev : It is difficult to say how our relations with the European Commission will develop . But I must say that last year was a year full of disappointments . Because it was last year that the European Union unequivocally took Armenia 's side in the normalization process . There are many facts , which you also know very well . Of course , the way the so-called observation mission of the European Union was extended did not strengthen , but on the contrary , undermined the trust . After all , when we demanded that it be agreed with us , it was not because we have some inflated ambitions , but simply because the very establishment of this mission and its sending to our border was agreed with us , personally with me , in Prague in October 2022 . If we agreed then that it would be two months and 40 people , then that is how it should be . When I agree , even in words , I always stick to these agreements . But in this case , Europe felt that they had the right to violate these agreements . But then , without any notification , without any agreement with us , they not only extended this mission , they increased it and even invited a country that is not a member of the European Union , essentially undermining trust . And then these , as they say , shameful demonstrations of binocular actions , when they put on some semi-military gear , boots and walk around like some kind of fighters . I do not want to show them how fast they might run away from there if someone accidentally sneezes on Azerbaijani territory , but our hands are itching . This is why we told them to stop these binocular shows , and they seem to be doing without that . Although recently the President of a European country allowed himself the audacity to look at Azerbaijan through binoculars . But what did n't he see here in Baku when he was here a week ago and asked for a meeting with me ? If he needed to see something , I would have sent him to Karabakh and he would have looked at the mountains . But it is a demonstration , you know . It happens for a reason . It is an attitude . You look through binoculars as if at enemy . If this is how you treat Azerbaijan , then how else can we treat you ? I am not even talking about the destructive role of the former High Representative for Foreign Affairs . But not only that . There have been a lot of disappointments . <p> Now . What happens next , I do n't know . The commission is new , although some characters are old . But still it is a new commission and what attitude to Azerbaijan and its national interests it will have , the same attitude will be to them . If it is normal and constructive , I think we will be able to return to a constructive direction . What the European Union achieved last year is that it was completely removed from the process of normalization of the Azerbaijani-Armenian track . Further , if there is a continuation of the process of stuffing Armenia with arms through the so-called Peace Foundation , there will be adequate actions from our side . I am not talking about the shameful behavior of the European Parliament . By the way , the new composition does not differ much from the old one . The same Azerbaijanophobia and the same unmotivated aggression . We do not remember them at all , neither about this European Parliament nor about its deputies , we do not even know who these people are . But they made the fight against Azerbaijan the meaning of their lives . I am not even talking about the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe , which discriminated against us literally three months after we restored our sovereignty , and that was exactly why . If , as they say , they have done so for imaginary violations of human rights , they could have done that for 20 years . Why did n't they do that ? So that is the reason . I once noted that we have moved too big blocks , maybe even bigger blocks than we may realize . In this case , it is not a purely local conflict that was resolved against the wishes of many Europeans , and not just Europeans . They wanted to keep us dependent , to come here , to lecture us , to participate , to travel , to monitor us . We deprived them of all this . <p> But we are offering normal relations : let 's cooperate normally and bilaterally . We do not depend on you , we do not expect anything from you , we do not break into your family , especially since you will never accept a country with a Muslim population , frankly speaking . So let 's be good neighbors , let 's cooperate , please , trade , sell , buy , acquire technologies . Unfortunately , all their activities have led to the fact that we have curtailed all programs with the EU . All twinning programs have been curtailed , all EU grants have been frozen , those that were legal . There are partly illegal ones , money is brought here across the border , mainly through Georgia , again through the structures that are handy to Soros , but this is no longer the case , and our law enforcement agencies can track all that . As for legal grants -- we refused , because they were aimed at creating their own platforms on our territory with far-reaching plans , mainly focused on young people . Unfortunately , we see that some representatives of Azerbaijani youth have taken the path of betrayal , pure betrayal , collaboration with Armenians -- this is also a result of brainwashing through these so-called grant programs funded by NED ( American National Endowment for Democracy ) and EED ( European Endowment for Democracy ) . Even here you see that it is a clone , the name is the same , with National here and European there . This is what they have achieved . And they will continue , but an even higher wall will be built . So how will they implement their policy of rapprochement with Central Asian countries . How ? Will they communicate through Russia ? I doubt it . Through Iran perhaps ? I also doubt it . Will they dig a tunnel under Azerbaijan ? Probably not either . Therefore , they should just be sober about it and appreciate Azerbaijan as a reliable partner , which has never done anything bad to Europe or any European country . It only responded and will continue to respond . Good for good and evil for evil , so to speak . <p> Nigar Sabirgizi : Mr. President , if I may , I would like to ask a slightly different question . You mentioned earlier that no one can interfere in our affairs . Of course , it is an undeniable fact that , thanks to your determination , Azerbaijan has become a power not only in our region but also globally . As you mentioned earlier , Macron can not live without Azerbaijan ; he sees Azerbaijan as a power and accuses us of interfering in France 's internal affairs . Or , just a few days ago , with the well-known plane incident , the Russian President apologized to Azerbaijan . This was the first time the Russian state has apologized to another country . Many did not believe this would happen , but it did . And all these events show that Azerbaijan is a strong state , and they understand they must reckon with us . What does it feel like to be the President of a geographically small but victorious and strong country ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : How should I put it ? First of all , it is a great responsibility . First and foremost , I approach my duty in this way : every day , every hour , day and night . Secondly , it is a great honor . Of course , I have been especially happy lately . For the past four years , my life has been completely different . All of our lives are different . We all live , wake up , and travel abroad with a completely different mindset . To live , work , and engage in international contacts as a representative , especially the leader , of a victorious country is a completely different feeling . Considering that for 17 years , we were in a completely different situation -- despite being in the right , we were considered wrong . During these 17 years , there were many moments that remained out of the public eye , moments that deeply angered , saddened , and hurt . Injustice -- because , how can I put it , the greatest injustice is injustice itself . <p> Today , the foundation of progress in every field and aspect lies in positive emotions , good spirits , the comfort of our society , and a sense of self-confidence . I know that the Azerbaijani people stand behind me . The Azerbaijani people also know that I stand behind them -- this is a unique feeling . Many may not have experienced this , especially as someone who has led the country during two different periods , which perhaps makes it a unique experience . Even though four years have passed , it is still difficult to fully comprehend . I have visited the liberated territories perhaps more than 100 times , and every time I go , I say the same words to myself , share the same joy . It feels as if I am there for the first time . Just as you feel , I feel the same . Of course , there is a sense of responsibility and pride . We live in a country where , first and foremost , we can take pride in our nation and our people . <p> Nigar Sabirgizi : Thank you very much . <p> Vafa Aghabalayeva : Mr. President , I recently came across an interview you gave in the early years of your presidency . In that interview , you mentioned a sentence : When I came to power , I thought there was indeed justice and law in the world , and that they were functioning , but over time , I realized that they do n't work . I would like to touch on a point -- under your leadership , as the state of Azerbaijan , we have always stood by small states and island nations . Azerbaijani television channels have filmed in these areas . Despite large media entities remaining silent , not speaking , or hiding the truth , Azerbaijani television channels are filming in countries in West Africa , in islands , in Corsica , and New Caledonia , which have been destroyed by neocolonial politics . The representatives of the ordinary people -- at least from what I have heard -- say they thank the state of Azerbaijan and its leader . Believe me , every one of them knows you . Now , my question is , regarding neocolonial politics , what will our goals be in the next phase , and will we lead this mission ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : Yes , this will continue . Azerbaijani society has already put forward its position , and the activities of the Baku Initiative Group are expanding and growing year by year . Again , I say , if this process began for certain reasons , today it has already become a part of our lives . And especially meeting with the representatives of these regions , listening to their problems in their own words , and seeing in their eyes the longing and exhausted hopes is both difficult and very familiar . Because we were in a very similar situation for many years . During the period when we were not independent , we lived with a passion for independence , at least the majority of our society did . We gained independence and were immediately subjected to occupation , even before that . This injustice was a part of our lives , and we freed ourselves from this injustice with the will of our people . However , these peoples practically do not have access to any mass media outlets . They are threatened , and injustice against them has become a common reality . The number of sides and organizations willing to defend them is very small . As I have said before , no one wants trouble , and no one wants to confront the great powers -- at least , those considering themselves as such . But we are doing it , and we will continue to do so . As long as this colonialist practice persists , we will stand by those peoples . The Azerbaijani society now considers this a moral duty , and as you mentioned , when our television channels visit those regions and witness the conditions of those people firsthand , they once again see this bitter reality . <p> To be honest , even I was n't very aware of these regions about ten years ago . However , the recent hurricane and the information that came to light as a result deeply shocked me . Who would have thought that in an area considered part of France , 70-75% of the population lives in poverty ? Why should this happen in France ? The President of France goes there and says that without France , you would live 10,000 times worse . How much worse can it get ? Seventy-five percent living in poverty , 30-40% of housing stock dilapidated and in hazardous condition . If this is France , then it turns out that France is a poor country . Keeping that region as a strategic point , exploiting its natural resources , oppressing its people , subjecting them to assimilation , and depriving them of their identity , language , and culture is barbaric . This brings no honor to any country . <p> Until recent years , all this was covered up . No one talked about it , and no one invited people from those regions anywhere . When justified protests began there , look at how brutally France suppressed them -- 13 people were killed , and 1,000 were arrested . They were taken from there to main areas of France . Therefore , as a state , we certainly express our position . But our non-governmental organizations must , of course , continue this work . <p> Guy Shawn : Mr. President , may I ask you just one more question in English ? Thank you . You spoke about the value of countries minding their own business . We have also seen some indications of what a future Trump administration might do in terms of foreign policy . Do you think this means that globalization , as we understood it , has had its day at this point ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : I think even before that , if you notice the last several years , we do n't hear a lot about globalization . Maybe ten to fifteen years ago , it was a kind of trend , but it did n't work . Because many countries were opposing it . For many countries , it was not clear what it means . Globalization means more trade , or globalization means a unification of all into one substance -- if I may use this word ? So we 've always been against it , and we have been very vocal . Even during the times when globalization was considered the main trend of Western politics , but even before when President Trump was elected , this issue more or less was not on top of the agenda . I am sure that it will be completely eliminated because it did n't work . Many people did not even understand what it meant . It was used as a tool for penetration and establishing platforms for domination , and actually for brainwashing the younger generation . Because the main target of globalization was the younger generation . Because that was a calculated approach in order to make them so-called " people of the world . " People without culture , without nationality , without national identity , without national pride would just be kind of robots in the hands of those who have a remote control . So I am sure it is done already ; it is finished . <p> Guy Shawn : Thank you , Mr. President . <p> Vusal Matlab : Mr. President , we have been working for almost three hours now . If our colleagues do not object , let 's consider this the final question . In fact , perhaps there is a symbolic meaning in this topic being the last one . We have successfully completed the first mission , which was the liberation of our lands , and we are now working on the second mission -- the Great Return and reconstruction . You have repeatedly mentioned that we can not excessively exploit this Victory , that we can not live in the euphoria of this Victory . Now , it seems we are facing the third mission . This is about the return of the Western Azerbaijanis to their ancestral lands . Under the current circumstances , how realistic do these prospects appear ? <p> President Ilham Aliyev : You know , it depends on us . The more active we are , the more promising the prospects will be . Naturally , during the period of occupation of Karabakh , we could not be actively engaged in this issue . However , as early as 10 years ago , I already brought this topic to the political agenda , and upon my recommendation , Azerbaijani scholars began to create scientific works on the subject . A major scientific work was created on the Irevan Khanate , as well as studies on the past life of Western Azerbaijanis , their settlement there , and the printing of historical maps . We were already doing this at that time because it was our rightful demand . But again , I must say , everything has its sequence , and now the time has come for us to seriously engage with this issue . First of all , several public organizations from Western Azerbaijan operating in Azerbaijan united within a single organization . The Western Azerbaijan Community and its activities have further improved , including its international activities , and it has established contacts with many international organizations . This issue has now been placed on the international agenda because it is important . Both the international lexicon and the international agenda have now included this issue . Going forward , of course , the activities of both non-governmental organizations and the state will be aimed at enabling the people of Western Azerbaijan to return to their ancestral lands , to the villages and cities where they lived , and to settle there . This is a demand that fully aligns with international norms and principles . <p> Particularly considering that the current territory of Armenia essentially includes the historical lands that were predominantly inhabited by Azerbaijanis , today we assert that 300,000 Western Azerbaijanis should return to those regions . However , the total number of those who have been displaced from that region , and who are now living in various parts of Azerbaijan , along with their descendants , is several times greater than 300,000 . Take a look at the maps from the 19th century , from the Russian Empire . All the toponyms there are of Azerbaijani origin , as well as the maps compiled by the Russian Empire in the early 20th century . The names of all the cities are of Azerbaijani origin . You will not see a lake named " Lake Sevan " there ; It is written as Lake Goycha . When we say that this is our historical land , we are stating the truth . Even in the recent speech of the first fascist president of Armenia , recently published in the media , he admits that Azerbaijanis were the majority in three regions . Azerbaijanis constituted the majority in Zangezur . Yes . Not just a majority , but there were villages composed entirely of Azerbaijanis . In the 20th century , we faced deportation three times , and each time , these deportations led to serious consequences . In November 1920 , West Zangezur was separated from Azerbaijan and annexed to Armenia . Two years before that , unfortunately , the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic gave away the city of Irevan to Armenia . Following this , our people endured tremendous suffering . Therefore , the time has come for Armenia to create the conditions for Western Azerbaijanis to return to their ancestral lands . Of course , we expect a clear and legally sound position from the Armenian leadership on this matter . For now , they prefer to remain silent , even though we have raised this issue multiple times and await a concrete response from them . When and under what conditions will Azerbaijanis be able to return to those regions ? Particularly considering that the majority of the villages where Azerbaijanis lived are now completely empty -- no one lives there . Returning to those areas would not pose a significant problem , as there would be no need to relocate anyone . All that is required is a guarantee of safety , recognition of their right to live there , and the creation of conditions for their activity . This is our demand , and I am hopeful that the day will come when Western Azerbaijanis will return to their native lands . <p> I believe it would be appropriate for Armenia 's Prime Minister to meet with representatives of the Western Azerbaijan Community . To my knowledge , they are even ready to travel to Yerevan . He should meet them , hear their concerns , and listen to them . These people were unjustly expelled from those lands . They have every right to return . If this does not happen , then what kind of European democracy can we speak of ? Armenia portrays itself as a country pursuing the path of European democracy . Let them demonstrate this visibly . At the same time , I believe that the OSCE should also express its position on this issue . We expect a stance from the European Commission as well . Ignoring this matter is not the right step . This is a serious problem . It is about restoring the rights of hundreds of thousands of people . This is a human rights issue , a matter of justice . At the same time , it will also show that the current Armenian leadership is not a fascist , as the previous three presidents were fascists . Their statements , actions , participation of all three in the Khojaly genocide , and numerous other proofs confirm this . <p> If the current Prime Minister is a democrat and a friend of France 's President Macron , who is said to be a " founder of European democracy , " let him demonstrate it by allowing this . Our request is exactly this , and demanding it does not mean claiming any territory . It 's about approaching this from the perspective of human rights , and we will not remove this issue from the agenda . Although we have such proposals . However , let everyone know , both in Armenia and those behind it , that this issue will not be excluded from the agenda until Azerbaijanis can settle in Western Azerbaijan , including in West Zangezur , under secure conditions .
