<h> Gaza Ceasefire <p> Reports from the United States State Department and Middle Eastern news organizations suggest that a ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hamas is nearing finalisation . The proposed deal entails a phased exchange of hostages for political prisoners held by Israel , ultimately leading to Israel 's withdrawal from the Philadelphia Corridor , the strip of land separating Egypt from Gaza . This would pave the way for further negotiations on withdrawals , exchanges , and a broader political settlement . <p> This development must be welcomed as a step toward ending the unimaginable suffering endured by the people of Gaza over the past 15 months of blatant genocide and ethnic cleansing . Any ceasefire that halts the carnage and enables essential supplies and rebuilding efforts in Gaza is a crucial and necessary move . <p> However , significant doubts remain about Israel 's commitment to honouring such agreements . Historically , Israel has violated ceasefire terms with its neighbours and is currently breaching its ceasefire agreement with Lebanon through ongoing airstrikes . The question of responsibility for the delays in reaching this deal also looms large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poised to return to power raises further questions about its timing and implications . It appears that the mere prospect of a Trump presidency has pressured Israel into pursuing a ceasefire , even as the Biden administration -- under Secretary of State Antony Blinken -- provided Israel with unwavering diplomatic , military , and narrative support throughout its campaign of destruction . This underscores that the United States always had the power to intervene and stop the atrocities but chose not to act . While this ceasefire may bring temporary relief to Gaza 's population , broader issues persist . Chief among them are holding those responsible for acts of genocide accountable , dismantling Israeli apartheid , and achieving a just resolution to the Palestinian conflict that restores Palestinians ' rights to a homeland , dignity , freedom , and self-determination . <p> The world has borne witness to the actions of Israel and its Western allies . As focus shifts toward rebuilding Gaza and securing peace , it must also turn to seeking justice for the atrocities committed over the past 15 months .
