@@71837681 <p> Due to the coronavirus outbreak , Palestinians took to social media to post pictures of victims of Israeli violence during the Great March of Return protests . They also raised the Palestinian flag from the balconies of their homes . <p> Homage is paid to the six Palestinians killed by Israeli forces on 30 March , 1976 ( Photo : Arab48 ) <p> On March 30 , Monday , Palestinians marked the 44th Land Day , as well as the 2nd anniversary of the Great March of Return protests . However , due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic , no mass rallies or demonstrations were organized . <p> Instead , activists and Palestine solidarity organizations announced an ' online rally ' and a ' Twitterstorm ' to mark the anniversaries and to highlight the suffering and struggles of Palestinians , especially in Gaza , where residents have been living under a crushing Israeli-Egyptian land , air and sea blockade for the past 14 years . <p> Palestinians in the occupied West Bank , occupied East Jerusalem and in the Gaza strip , as well as Palestinian diaspora across the world , took to raising the Palestinian flag on rooftops and balconies . Authorities in the Hamas-administered Gaza strip had also issued an advisory to its residents to stay at home and not venture out to the sites of the Great March of Return protests . Many Palestinians and international solidarity activists posted photos of themselves with the Palestinian flag and photos and names of the Palestinians killed during the Great March of Return protests since March 2018 . People also posted video messages of solidarity , singing songs and reading poetry . Gaza 's authorities had also planned to play sirens across the territory to mark the occasion , with traffic stopped for one hour . <p> Palestinians commemorate Land Day to mark the events of March 30 , 1976 , when Israeli police shot and killed six people who were protesting and resisting the Israeli confiscation of Palestinian land . The Israeli government had announced its intention to seize 21,000 dunums ( approximately 5190 acres ) of Palestinian land in the upper Galilee region in order to build illegal Jewish settlements . To oppose this decision , Palestinians living inside the state of Israel in mostly Arab majority towns had gone on a general strike . The Israeli police and security forces subsequently attacked the protesters , seriously wounding and arresting many Palestinians . <p> In 2018 , Palestinians in Gaza launched the Great March of Return protests on the border with Israel to demand an end to the Israeli-Egyptian blockade and the right of return of Palestinian refugees . The protests were held weekly on Fridays until recently . The Israeli army and security forces routinely cracked down on the protesters , killing close to 300 people and injuring approximately 25,000 , using rubber-coated metal bullets , tear gas canisters and even live ammunition . In the last few months preceding the COVID-19 outbreak , the protests had shrunk in size due to the high number of injuries and casualties inflicted by the Israeli forces and the intermittent ceasefires between the Palestinian resistance group Hamas and Israel . 
@@71837726 <h> Coronavirus Outbreak : How the world is living in a pandemic , coping with COVID-19 <p> Boatmen waiting for passengers docked on the bank of a river during a government-imposed lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus in Dhaka on March 28 . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 1/20 <p> Traffic police personnel wearing coronavirus-themed helmets participate in a campaign to educate the public during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus in Bangalore on March 31 . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 2/20 <p> Prison inmates lie to sleep at the crowded courtyard of the Quezon City jail in Manila . UN rights chief Michelle Bachelet has urged countries to protect people held in overcrowded prisons and other enclosed facilities by releasing vulnerable detainees , saying COVID-19 " risks rampaging through such institutions " . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 3/20 <p> A picture taken on March 31 shows a general view of the Yangtze River and buildings in the city in Wuhan , in China 's central Hubei province . Wuhan , the central Chinese city where the novel coronavirus ( Covid-19 ) first emerged last year , partly reopened on March 28 after more than two months of near total isolation for its population of 11 million . <p> Photo : AFP <p> 4/20 <p> Volunteers from Dera Kar Sewa Sant Baba Bhuri Wale organisation prepare food for people in need during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Amritsar on March 31 . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 5/20 <p> Pope Francis ( Bottom C ) arriving to preside over a moment of prayer on the sagrato of St Peter 's Basilica , the platform at the top of the steps immediately in front of the fa ? ade of the Church , to be conclude with Pope Francis giving the Urbi et orbi Blessing , on March 27 at St. Peter 's Square in the Vatican . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 6/20 <p> A maintenance worker , wearing a face mask as a preventive measure against the spread of the COVID-19 novel coronavirus , stands in the middle of the railway track on the Long Bien bridge in Hanoi . Vietnam 's Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc announced on March 31 that Vietnam would be under " complete social isolation " for two weeks beginning April 1 . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 7/20 <p> Iran 's Azadi ( Freedom ) Tower is lit up with flags and messages of hope in solidarity with all the countries affected by the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic , in Tehran . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 8/20 <p> Yassin Hussein Moyo 's relatives cry prior to Yassin 's burial at Kariokor Muslim Cemetery in Nairobi , Kenya on March 31. 13-year-old boy Yassin Hussein Moyo was shot in the stomach the night before allegedly by Police officers in the Huruma slums of Nairobi while he was at the balcony of his house . The Police officers were patrolling the area as they enforced the dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed by the Kenyan Government as a measure to stop the spread of the deadly virus . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 9/20 <p> This picture taken on March 31 shows Kievskaya metro station in Moscow , amid the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus . Moscow , with its more than 12 million people , went into lockdown on March 30 , and more than a dozen regions moved to introduce similar steps to curb the coronavirus outbreak . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 10/20 <p> A volunteer sprays disinfectant in Shwedagon Pagoda compound as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Yangon on March 31 . Myanmar reported its first coronavirus death , a 69-year-old man who returned to the country in mid-March after receiving cancer treatment in Australia . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 11/20 <p> The pedestrian bridge on Drava river lighted with Italian national flag colors supporting Italy in their efforts against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in eastern Croatian town of Osijek . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 12/20 <p> A person walking along the empty Florida pedestrian street in Buenos Aires , on March 30 . Compulsory social isolation was extended until April 12 in Argentina , the government announced Sunday as 820 people infected and 20 dead were so far reported in the South American nation . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 13/20 <p> Workers spray disinfectant at a Hindu temple during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Karachi . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 14/20 <p> Palestinian workers manufacture protective coverall suits and maks at a workshop in Gaza City on March 30 , amid coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic . The Queen Tex factory in the Gaza Strip used to specialise in making shirts and jeans , but as the new coronavirus swept the globe it pivoted into medicalwear.Now lines of men use old sewing machines to stitch together masks while also wearing them as the blockaded Palestinian enclave develops a homegrown response to the crisis . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 15/20 <p> A police officer rides a horse covered with coronavirus-themed paintings as he speaks to the public during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Peapally Mandal village of Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 16/20 <p> A morning aerial photo taken on March 30 shows deserted streets and the Colosseum monument in Rome . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 17/20 <p> A police officer instructs migrant workers and their family members to line-up as they leave Delhi for their homes during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 18/20 <p> Lithuanian groom Dainius and his bride Ramune pose for the photographer , wearing protective masks against the new coronavirus after their wedding ceremony in Vilnius , Lithuania . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 19/20 <p> White circles are marked on the ground for people to maintain social distanciation at a local vegetable market during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Faridabad on March 27 . <p> ( Photo : AFP ) <p> 20/20 <h> About The Gallery <p> As the world grapples with the widespread of the coronavirus outbreak , here is how different countries are coping with the pandemic . <p> All photos : AFP <p> Sign up for all the latest news , top galleries and trending videos from Mid-day.com <p> This website uses cookie or similar technologies , to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations . By continuing to use our website , you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy . OK 
@@71838495 <h> FACTBOX-Latest on the spread of the coronavirus around the world <p> Lockdowns to halt the spread of the coronavirus have brought silence to some of the world 's busiest places . Transport hubs that should be teeming with travellers such as New York 's Grand Central Terminal or Istanbul 's Eminonu ferry docks are all but deserted . <p> DEATHS , INFECTIONS * More than 878,300 people have been infected across the world and more than 43,400 have died , according to a Reuters tally . * For an interactive graphic tracking the global spread , open https : //tmsnrt.rs/3aIRuz7 in an external browser. * U.S.-focused tracker with state-by-state and county map , open https : //tmsnrt.rs/2w7hX9T in an external browser . EUROPE * Italy will extend lockdown restrictions to April 13 , as data from this week suggests a slowdown of growth in total cases , though its national health institute says official death toll could be underestimated . * Cases in Spain topped 100,000 on Wednesday , and two planes with protective equipment arrived to restock an overloaded public health system . * Britain said it would ramp up the number of tests amid widespread criticism that it was doing far too few . * Switzerland no longer faces shortages in coronavirus testing , its top health official dealing with the pandemic said on Wednesday . * Measures to limit the outbreak in the Netherlands appear to have halved the rate of infection but need to be continued to be really effective , a top health official said . * Ireland expects global constraints in the supply of reagents to slow the roll-out of tests over the coming week to 10 days . * President Vladimir Putin is taking precautions to protect himself , as Moscow launched a smartphone app designed to track people who have been ordered to stay home . * European scientists and engineers will launch an initiative to support the use of digital contact tracing applications . AMERICAS * Canada 's death toll jumped by 35% in less than a day and Quebec said it was running low on key medical equipment . * U.S. health officials are discussing whether to recommend face masks for general use , but said it was too soon to take that step . * President Donald Trump urged Florida to open its port to a virus-hit Dutch cruise ship stuck at sea . * Twenty-eight students who returned to Texas after spring break at a beach resort in Mexico have tested positive . * Brazil 's economy minister said the country needed to strike a balance between social isolation policies and protecting the economy , hours after the president said hunger was just as big a threat as the virus itself . * Cuba suspended arriving international flights and asked all foreign boats to withdraw from its waters . * Nearly 30 medical workers at a hospital in northern Mexico have been infected , as the national tally climbed to 1,215. * El Salvador registered its first death . <p> ASIA AND THE PACIFIC * Mainland China reported dwindling new infections on Wednesday and for the first time disclosed the number of asymptomatic cases , which could complicate how trends in the outbreak are read . * Singapore reported 74 new cases in its biggest intraday jump , bringing its total to 1,000. * Over 121 countries have asked South Korea for help with testing , a foreign ministry official said on Wednesday . * Japan will ban entry to foreigners from 73 countries and ask everyone arriving from abroad to begin quarantine . * India scoured mosques on Wednesday to trace people who attended a Muslim gathering in New Delhi that later emerged as a hotspot. * The rate of new infections in Malaysia appears to be slowing amid month-long curbs on movement , a senior health official said . * A team of Chinese scientists has isolated several antibodies that it says are " extremely effective " at blocking the ability of the virus to enter cells . MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA * Iran 's president said the U.S. had missed an opportunity to lift sanctions on his country , though he said the penalties had not hampered Tehran 's fight against the infection . * Israel linked any coronavirus aid it might offer the Gaza Strip to recovering two Israeli soldiers . * Around 1.5 million Israelis have downloaded a mobile app in the past week that alerts users who have crossed paths with a coronavirus patient . * The Lebanese paramilitary group Hezbollah is using a corps of volunteers , doctors and facilities to carve out a prominent role in the crisis-riven state 's response . * Ugandan doctors accused the government of endangering the lives of those in medical emergencies by requiring that all seek permission to secure transportation to hospitals . * Afghanistan has been hit by a spike in prices of essential goods including food and medicines , as shortages and panic buying increase . * The pandemic has stoked tensions between Turkey 's president and Istanbul 's opposition mayor , with disputes over fundraising and a potential lockdown . ECONOMIC FALLOUT * World markets fell on Wednesday as the virus threat ensured an ugly start to the second quarter for equities and commodities . * China 's ports and shipping firms are bracing for a second wave of supply chain disruptions that may be deeper and more prolonged than during the country 's lockdown. * The European Commision proposed a short-time work scheme modelled on Germany 's Kurzarbeit programme to help people keep their jobs . * Italy plans to spend another $11 billion to guarantee debt and liquidity for professionals and companies hit by the crisis . * The German government and the nation 's credit insurance industry have agreed on a plan to help the sector keep insuring trade despite economic hardship . * Switzerland is preparing to expand an emergency liquidity programme for businesses , as banks have already lent out more than half of the $20.70 billion set aside for state-backed loans . * Denmark sold $750 million worth government bonds in an auction that was held a month early to expedite funding of aid packages . * Taiwan 's economic stimulus will reach $35 billion . 
@@71838566 <h> Is human-imposed isolation in China , Gaza &amp; Kashmir backfiring ? <h> Nearly 900 million people in 35 countries have been asked to stay at home <p> Posted by News Desk Updated : March 23 , 2020 , 5:23 pm IST <p> Hyderabad : Nearly one billion people are in lockdown across the world . From Rome to New York to Paris people across the world are confined to their homes this weekend , as part of the effort to stop the spread of COVID-19 . The new Coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 11,400 people so far has brought the world to its knees . Nearly 900 million people in 35 countries have been asked to stay at home , according to an AFP database . <p> In the US , the country 's three biggest cities , New York , Los Angeles and Chicago , are at a standstill and around 100 million people are stuck at home . China , Denmark , El Salvador , France , Ireland , Italy , New Zealand , Belgium , Australia , Poland , and Spain have implemented the world 's largest and most restrictive mass quarantines . <p> Italy , the most severely affected European country with 4,032 deaths so far , was also the first European country to issue a full lockdown for the entire population . <p> Morocco suspended international flights on Sunday . <p> Kenya has closed schools and blocked non-residents from entering the country . <p> The Malaysian government has barred travel in and out of the country and shut down non-essential businesses . <p> Canada has shut its borders to anyone who is n't a citizen , a permanent resident , or a US citizen . <p> Colombia closed all of its borders . <p> Denmark has closed its borders from March 14 until April 13 . <p> Germany also closed its borders with France , Switzerland , Austria , Denmark , and Luxembourg . <p> Kuwait banned all commercial flights . <p> Lithuania shut its borders . <p> Maldives is subjecting all passengers travelling to the country by air to a 14-day quarantine . <p> North Korea has shut down airline flights and train service with neighboring countries , and established quarantines for recent travelers . <p> Norway closed ports and airports . <p> Peru abruptly closed its land , sea , and air borders on Sunday , after issuing a state of emergency . <p> Qatar stopped all incoming flights to the country and shut down shops in main commercial areas . <p> Russia closed its borders with China , Poland and Norway and also banned foreign nationals from entering the country from March 18 to May 1 . <p> Saudi Arabia suspended all international flights . <p> Slovakia closed its borders to non-residents . <p> Ukraine closed its borders for foreign citizens . <p> The world-wide lockdowns , however , are not similar at all to that suffered by Gazans for many years , Kashmiris for seven months and the detention faced by the Uighur Muslims in China . While the rest of the world is living with insecurity , " social distancing , " " sheltering in place , " and shortages of necessary goods , there are no accompanying bombs , shooting from across a border fence , no forced detention and no communication blockade . <h> For years , Gazans lived under Israeli-enforced confinement <p> For years Gazans , a population under Israeli-enforced confinement , have lived this way . <p> ' Dear world , how is the lockdown ? Gaza . ' This sly dig at the international community is just one among a torrent of social media posts that has emerged from the blockaded Gaza Strip in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic https : **39;7654;TOOLONG ... A Facebook meme reads : " To all quarantined Israelis who are " restless in isolation . Not sure how to cope " -- please call the following hotline to reach " highly- experienced , Gazan enclosure experts " -- " 1-800-266-KARMA . " Gazans , due to years of Israeli-imposed suffering , can weather any storm , including potential confinement inflicted this time by an epidemic . <h> China kept one million Muslim Uyghurs in detention <p> At least one million mostly Muslim ethnic Uyghurs are thought to be detained in China , with multiple layers of locks on dormitories , corridors , floors and buildings . Fences are put around each building , and walls around the compound . Inmates are kept at least a year in the camps , with round-the-clock video surveillance , before they can even be considered for " completion " , or release . There have been multiple accounts by people who passed through camps of torture , rape and abuse . <p> On January 23 , when the coronavirus outbreak that soon became a pandemic was spinning out of control , China quarantined her city of 11 million . Started for a week , the lockdown in Wuhan continued for two months . Many other Chinese cities still face travel restrictions . Almost half of China 's population -- about 780 million people -- were under some kind of travel restriction as of February 17 , according to an estimate by CNN . <h> India put Kashmir under lockdown <p> On August 5 , the Indian government withdrew Article 370 of India 's constitution and imposed the awful curfew in Jammu and Kashmir . India has also been maintaining a media and communication blackout in the valley ever since . It is no doubt , both unprecedented and the longest internet blackout imposed by a democracy in the world . <p> But regrettably , the global community has yet not adequately responded to an inhumane lockdown imposed in the valley by India for such a long time . <p> A few days ago , a tweet probably made by someone heartbroken just went viral in the country which read " Dear world how is the lockdown ? Kashmir . " <p> The statement epitomises the miseries and sufferings of oppressed people in Jammu and Kashmir who are under a strict lockdown for 7 months . According to a report in the Times of India , curfew and restrictions were imposed for 168 times in nine districts of Jammu and Kashmir in 2016 and 2017 . <p> Now , in the wake of coronavirus pandemic , the Centre and state governments have decided to completely shutdown 75 districts across the country where coronavirus ( covid-19 ) cases have been reported . It has also been decided to suspend the interstate bus services till March 31 . <p> according to Health Ministry , the total number of novel coronavirus cases in India rose to 341 on Sunday after fresh cases were reported from various parts of the country . <p> On Sunday , millions of people across the country stayed indoors , streets wore a deserted look and bare number of vehicles were on the road in an unprecedented shutdown on Modi 's appeal for a ' Janata curfew ' to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus pandemic , which has claimed over 13,000 lives worldwide . <p> This world scenario raises a big question ; is the human-imposed isolation backfiring upon the world ? 
@@71838758 <p> " Just remember , the Iranians never won a war , but never lost a negotiation ! " It has all the hallmarks of the perfect Donald Trump tweet . <p> First , it is factually incorrect : Iran is a civilization going back thousands of years , and has more military victories in its history than the American president has had hot breakfasts . <p> Second , it is more than a little racist , winking at the Orientalist stereotype of Iranians as cunning negotiators , forever trying to cheat Westerners looking for a bargain on a Shirazi carpet . <p> Third , it torpedoes efforts by Trump 's own administration : in this instance , a multimillion-dollar campaign by the State Department to win Iranian hearts and minds . <p> But if the tweet has the effect of shutting down that particular exercise , American taxpayers ought to be grateful . The campaign -- the brainchild of Len Khodorkovsky , a creative director of Trump 's 2016 presidential campaign , who now works at State -- is a waste of resources for a department already short of them . <p> Apparently , the propaganda effort is to persuade Iranians that their problems -- economic and political -- are the product of misrule in Tehran , rather than the sanctions imposed from Washington . This message is being delivered over social media , and among its most striking components is a video featuring Brian Hook , the special envoy on Iran , in which he claims to shatter some " myths " propagated by the Islamic Republic about the sanctions . Sample quote : " Under our laws , a general license is in place today that allows medical devices to be exported from the U.S. to Iran . " <p> The campaign is flawed as much in conception as in execution . It should not be the goal of the Trump administration to ingratiate itself with Iranians . Governments are , as a rule , very bad at this . In countries where the U.S. is well-regarded despite the anti-American propaganda of the local regime , it is usually due to soft power , rather than the exertions of the State Department . <p> Nor do Iranians need the Trump administration to tell them that their rulers are vile and venal : they have known this from the start of the Islamic Republic . Iran has never been as hermetically sealed as , say , North Korea , and Iranian public opinion has always been highly aware of the regime 's mendacity . <p> That -- and not a Brian Hook video -- is why Iranians are unlikely to swallow , without question , their rulers ' claims that a scarcity of life-saving medicines is due to American sanctions . They know full well that the regime itself capitalizes on the sanctions , whether by appropriating money set aside for humanitarian supplies , or by hoarding medicines and selling them at extortionate prices . <p> Iranians know propaganda when they see it , whether it comes from their own regime or from the U.S. If the State Department 's campaign is to have any hope of success , it will need more than tweets , Facebook posts and the worst episode ever of " MythBusters . " <p> A good place to start would be to explain the administration 's Iran policy -- this would be useful to Americans , as well as to Iranians . It is not enough for Trump to say/tweet that he does not seek regime change in Tehran . He should explain what he does seek : limiting the regime 's capacity to do harm in the Middle East . ( Iranians know what is going on in Syria , Iraq , Lebanon and Gaza , and are not happy to see their rulers spend billions on propping up dictators and terrorist groups . ) <p> Along with explanations , there needs to be action . There 's no gainsaying the Iranian lack of access to medicines . This can be ameliorated if the U.S. throws its support behind one of two channels that allow for humanitarian trade without sanctions : one is a Swiss initiative , the other by the European Union . Both remain in limbo because the Trump administration has not yet provided sufficient assurance that any companies using them will not be punished . This is an easy fix . <p> Even with medicines flowing into the country , the regime 's propagandists will doubtless keep claiming that the U.S. is blocking humanitarian aid , and that there will be hoarding and price-gouging . But Iranians will know -- without a Brian Hook video -- whom to blame . -- Bloomberg 
@@71840534 <h> The Tablighi Jamaat tangle <p> The Tablighi Jamaat 's mission , its very raison d'etre , is to spread the word of Islam and to make better Muslims of Muslims . But in recent days , it has gained notoriety for becoming the biggest ' super spreader ' of the Covid 19 virus in not just South Asia where this group has its roots -- its international headquarters are in Nizamuddin area of Delhi -- but also in rest of Asia and perhaps other parts of the world as well . <p> The outrage being expressed in India over the discovery of a Covid 19 cluster in the capital Delhi 's Nizamuddin area where the Tablighi Jamaat followers had gathered from around the world for their annual congregation is entirely justified . According to reports already 10 deaths and over 300 hospitalisations are being linked to the TJ congregation . Worse , because people had come from all across India , many of the returnees have become carriers of the virus to their states , cities and villages in all four corners of the country . While the blame-game over how the Tablighis brazenly violated government orders against any gathering bigger than 20 people , how foreigners could violate their tourist visas for preaching activity , the irresponsibility and negligence of Jamaat leaders in taking proper action etc. is unavoidable , what matters more is how to contain the damage , if at all this is still possible considering that attendees would have spread out to remote parts of India and perhaps passed on the virus . But the Covid 19 havoc wrought by the Tablighi Jamaat is not limited to India alone . <p> The outrage being expressed in India over the discovery of a Covid 19 cluster in the capital Delhi 's Nizamuddin area where the Tablighi Jamaat followers had gathered from around the world for their annual congregation is entirely justified <p> In Pakistan , the Tablighi Jamaat has been discovered as the biggest spreader after return of shia pilgrims from Iran . Despite warnings and entreaties to not hold the annual congregation in Raiwind , on the outskirts of Lahore , the ijtema was held in the second week of March . Similar congregations were held in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province where videos were circulated scoffing at the dangers posed by the virus , which was called a fraud . Within days , health authorities started discovering Covid 19 patients who could be traced back to the Tablighi congregations . Quite like in India , the Tablighis had spread the virus throughout Pakistan , and the magnitude of the problem has still remains unresolved . Only a couple of days back , around 500 Tablighis , including over 100 foreigners from South-East Asia , Central Asia , West Asia and Africa , were quarantined in Sukkur town of Sindh . There are also reports of at least one Chinese tablighi testing positive for Covid 19 . But it is probably a little late in the day to contain the damage caused by the group 's insistence on holding its congregation . A report in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz claims that people who attended the congregation in Raiwind have already spread the virus from Kyrghztan to Gaza . <p> Bangladesh , meanwhile , seems to have so far escaped any spread of the virus from the mammoth Tablighi congregation that is held annually in that country . Even so , fears are being expressed that Rohingyas returning from attending Tablighi Ijtema 's in Malaysia might have carried the virus with them . The Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Malaysia , which is believed to be responsible for infecting nearly two thirds of the Covid 19 positive cases in that country is also feared to have spread the virus in the entire region . While Indonesia managed to stop the Tablighi gathering , there has nevertheless been a sudden spike in cases in that country . The infections in other South East Asian countries are also being directly traced to the Malaysian Tablighi congregation . <p> While Indonesia managed to stop the Tablighi gathering , there has nevertheless been a sudden spike in cases in that country . The infections in other South East Asian countries are also being directly traced to the Malaysian Tablighi congregation . <p> Over the years , the Tablighi Jamaat has emerged as arguably the largest missionary outfit in the world with its footprint extending across the globe . It is an offshoot of the Deobandi school and its foundations were laid by a Deobandi cleric Mohammad Ilyas in the 1920s . It is believed to have come into existence as a reaction to the Arya Samaj and the Shuddhi movement nearly 100 years ago . Its primary aim was to keep the flock together through proselytization and preaching a puritanical version of Islam , initially among Muslim groups like the Meos that had acquired or adopted many Hindu customs . The work of Dawah ( invitation ) that the Jamaat carries out is voluntary . Volunteers devote whatever time they can to teach Islam to the faithful and invite the non-Muslims to enter the faith . There are roving bands of preachers -- some do it for 4 days , others for 40 days in an year . The roving preachers travel within the country and across borders to spread Islam and mostly take care of their own travel , boarding and lodging arrangements . While there is no dearth of funds , which are mostly in the form of donations from wealthy patrons and ordinary people , and sale of books and other literature , the ijtema 's are extremely well organised . They are also very frugal , and no freebies are given to people who come from far and wide to attend and gain spiritual satisfaction . <p> From those humble origins , the Jamaat now has presence in virtually every country of the world . While the organisational structure of the Jamaat is quite amorphous , its international headquarters are in Delhi . But over the years , political developments have led to power struggles and created new centres of power , for example in Pakistan and Bangladesh . Even so , all these centres share fraternal links and top clerics from all countries visit and address congregations organised in other countries . The annual congregation in Bangladesh is often touted as the single largest gathering of Muslims after the Haj . Even the annual ijtema in Raiwind is attended by over a million faithful . <p> While the organisational structure of the Jamaat is quite amorphous , its international headquarters are in Delhi . But over the years , political developments have led to power struggles and created new centres of power , for example in Pakistan and Bangladesh <p> With the steady growth of the Deobandi movement , in part because of state patronage ( especially in Pakistan where the Deobandis were at the forefront of jihadism in pursuit of the state 's ideological and foreign policy agenda ) , the Tablighi Jamaat has seen an astronomical rise in its influence and its resources . Although the organisation eschews politics , and does n't participate in any political activity or lend open support to any political party/player , neither can it be ignored politically nor can it completely divorce itself from politics . In other words , even though organisationally the Jamaat stays away from politics , its followers often play an important role in politics . In Pakistan especially , there have been instances where the Jamaat 's Emir has hosted top retired military personnel to explore the possibility of going political . Although the Jamaat has continued to be apolitical , the fact that it commands a huge following means that no one really wants to rub it or its followers the wrong way . As a result , the Tablighis often do stuff that results in serious accidents , such as the recent burning of a train . The Jamaat often defies government orders banning large gatherings , which is exactly what has happened when against all advice it held its ijtema despite the fear that it could lead to the Covid 19 virus going viral . <p> More than politics though , the Tablighi Jamaat has gained a rather unsavoury reputation worldwide on account of the links of its followers with notorious terror organisations . From Harkatul Ansar and Harkatul Mujahideen to Jaish-e-Mohammad , the entire menagerie of Taliban groups , to sectarian terror outfits like Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan , all have been associated with the Tablighi Jamaat . Designated international terrorists like Masood Azhar have even been reported to have travelled extensively to East Africa -- Sudan , Somalia , Kenya -- to proselytise and build their network . To colour the argument more , for example , former ISI chief Javed Nasir , who was the mastermind of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts , is a staunch Tablighi Jamaat follower . Nasir has himself admitted in a court affidavit of defying UN sanctions to supply weapons in Bosnia and other jihadist hotspots . People associated with the Tablighi Jamaat have been linked to terrorist incidents like the San Bernardino massacre and the Barcelona bombings . Although the Jamaat has always distanced itself from jihadist actions of its followers and at least publicly has never really endorsed jihadism , there are deep suspicions that its functionaries often facilitate or even turn a blind eye to the activities of jihadists . <p> Given that the pandemic caused by Covid 19 is going to change the way the world works , it is possible that there will be tremendous pressure on the Tablighi Jamaat to also change with the times . Its religious puritanism can not become an excuse for endangering public health , nor can its criminal negligence in keeping infected foreign preachers and letting the infection spread be condoned <p> Given that the pandemic caused by Covid 19 is going to change the way the world works , it is possible that there will be tremendous pressure on the Tablighi Jamaat to also change with the times . Its religious puritanism can not become an excuse for endangering public health , nor can its criminal negligence in keeping infected foreign preachers and letting the infection spread be condoned . Every time an organisation like the Tablighi Jamaat is given a free pass , it is emboldened and it feels that it can cock a snook at authorities without any fear of consequences . Such impunity will have to end in the new world order that the Covid 19 crisis is likely to bring about . <p> object(WPPost)#627 ( 24 ) " ID " =&gt; int(63936) " postauthor " =&gt; string(1) " 1 " " postdate " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-01 10:06:54 " " postdategmt " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-01 04:36:54 " " postcontent " =&gt; string(12955) " The Tablighi Jamaat 's mission , its very raison d'etre , is to spread the word of Islam and to make better Muslims of Muslims . But in recent days , it has gained notoriety for becoming the biggest ' super spreader ' of the Covid 19 virus in not just South Asia where this group has its roots -- its international headquarters are in Nizamuddin area of Delhi -- but also in rest of Asia and perhaps other parts of the world as well . The outrage being expressed in India over the discovery of a Covid 19 cluster in the capital Delhi 's Nizamuddin area where the Tablighi Jamaat followers had gathered from around the world for their annual congregation is entirely justified . According to reports already 10 deaths and over 300 hospitalisations are being linked to the TJ congregation . Worse , because people had come from all across India , many of the returnees have become carriers of the virus to their states , cities and villages in all four corners of the country . While the blame-game over how the Tablighis brazenly violated government orders against any gathering bigger than 20 people , how foreigners could violate their tourist visas for preaching activity , the irresponsibility and negligence of Jamaat leaders in taking proper action etc. is unavoidable , what matters more is how to contain the damage , if at all this is still possible considering that attendees would have spread out to remote parts of India and perhaps passed on the virus . But the Covid 19 havoc wrought by the Tablighi Jamaat is not limited to India alone . beautifulquote align= " full " cite= " " The outrage being expressed in India over the discovery of a Covid 19 cluster in the capital Delhi 's Nizamuddin area where the Tablighi Jamaat followers had gathered from around the world for their annual congregation is entirely justified /beautifulquote In Pakistan , the Tablighi Jamaat has been discovered as the biggest spreader after return of shia pilgrims from Iran . Despite warnings and entreaties to not hold the annual congregation in Raiwind , on the outskirts of Lahore , the ijtema was held in the second week of March . Similar congregations were held in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province where videos were circulated scoffing at the dangers posed by the virus , which was called a fraud . Within days , health authorities started discovering Covid 19 patients who could be traced back to the Tablighi congregations . Quite like in India , the Tablighis had spread the virus throughout Pakistan , and the magnitude of the problem has still remains unresolved . Only a couple of days back , around 500 Tablighis , including over 100 foreigners from South-East Asia , Central Asia , West Asia and Africa , were quarantined in Sukkur town of Sindh . There are also reports of at least one Chinese tablighi testing positive for Covid 19 . But it is probably a little late in the day to contain the damage caused by the group 's insistence on holding its congregation . A report in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz claims that people who attended the congregation in Raiwind have already spread the virus from Kyrghztan to Gaza . Bangladesh , meanwhile , seems to have so far escaped any spread of the virus from the mammoth Tablighi congregation that is held annually in that country . Even so , fears are being expressed that Rohingyas returning from attending Tablighi Ijtema 's in Malaysia might have carried the virus with them . The Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Malaysia , which is believed to be responsible for infecting nearly two thirds of the Covid 19 positive cases in that country is also feared to have spread the virus in the entire region . While Indonesia managed to stop the Tablighi gathering , there has nevertheless been a sudden spike in cases in that country . The infections in other South East Asian countries are also being directly traced to the Malaysian Tablighi congregation . beautifulquote align= " full " cite= " " While Indonesia managed to stop the Tablighi gathering , there has nevertheless been a sudden spike in cases in that country . The infections in other South East Asian countries are also being directly traced to the Malaysian Tablighi congregation . /beautifulquote Over the years , the Tablighi Jamaat has emerged as arguably the largest missionary outfit in the world with its footprint extending across the globe . It is an offshoot of the Deobandi school and its foundations were laid by a Deobandi cleric Mohammad Ilyas in the 1920s . It is believed to have come into existence as a reaction to the Arya Samaj and the Shuddhi movement nearly 100 years ago . Its primary aim was to keep the flock together through proselytization and preaching a puritanical version of Islam , initially among Muslim groups like the Meos that had acquired or adopted many Hindu customs . The work of Dawah ( invitation ) that the Jamaat carries out is voluntary . Volunteers devote whatever time they can to teach Islam to the faithful and invite the non-Muslims to enter the faith . There are roving bands of preachers -- some do it for 4 days , others for 40 days in an year . The roving preachers travel within the country and across borders to spread Islam and mostly take care of their own travel , boarding and lodging arrangements . While there is no dearth of funds , which are mostly in the form of donations from wealthy patrons and ordinary people , and sale of books and other literature , the ijtema 's are extremely well organised . They are also very frugal , and no freebies are given to people who come from far and wide to attend and gain spiritual satisfaction . From those humble origins , the Jamaat now has presence in virtually every country of the world . While the organisational structure of the Jamaat is quite amorphous , its international headquarters are in Delhi . But over the years , political developments have led to power struggles and created new centres of power , for example in Pakistan and Bangladesh . Even so , all these centres share fraternal links and top clerics from all countries visit and address congregations organised in other countries . The annual congregation in Bangladesh is often touted as the single largest gathering of Muslims after the Haj . Even the annual ijtema in Raiwind is attended by over a million faithful . beautifulquote align= " full " cite= " " While the organisational structure of the Jamaat is quite amorphous , its international headquarters are in Delhi . But over the years , political developments have led to power struggles and created new centres of power , for example in Pakistan and **25;20437;TOOLONG With the steady growth of the Deobandi movement , in part because of state patronage ( especially in Pakistan where the Deobandis were at the forefront of jihadism in pursuit of the state 's ideological and foreign policy agenda ) , the Tablighi Jamaat has seen an astronomical rise in its influence and its resources . Although the organisation eschews politics , and does n't participate in any political activity or lend open support to any political party/player , neither can it be ignored politically nor can it completely divorce itself from politics . In other words , even though organisationally the Jamaat stays away from politics , its followers often play an important role in politics . In Pakistan especially , there have been instances where the Jamaat 's Emir has hosted top retired military personnel to explore the possibility of going political . Although the Jamaat has continued to be apolitical , the fact that it commands a huge following means that no one really wants to rub it or its followers the wrong way . As a result , the Tablighis often do stuff that results in serious accidents , such as the recent burning of a train . The Jamaat often defies government orders banning large gatherings , which is exactly what has happened when against all advice it held its ijtema despite the fear that it could lead to the Covid 19 virus going viral . More than politics though , the Tablighi Jamaat has gained a rather unsavoury reputation worldwide on account of the links of its followers with notorious terror organisations . From Harkatul Ansar and Harkatul Mujahideen to Jaish-e-Mohammad , the entire menagerie of Taliban groups , to sectarian terror outfits like Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan , all have been associated with the Tablighi Jamaat . Designated international terrorists like Masood Azhar have even been reported to have travelled extensively to East Africa -- Sudan , Somalia , Kenya -- to proselytise and build their network . To colour the argument more , for example , former ISI chief Javed Nasir , who was the mastermind of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts , is a staunch Tablighi Jamaat follower . Nasir has himself admitted in a court affidavit of defying UN sanctions to supply weapons in Bosnia and other jihadist hotspots . People associated with the Tablighi Jamaat have been linked to terrorist incidents like the San Bernardino massacre and the Barcelona bombings . Although the Jamaat has always distanced itself from jihadist actions of its followers and at least publicly has never really endorsed jihadism , there are deep suspicions that its functionaries often facilitate or even turn a blind eye to the activities of jihadists. beautifulquote align= " full " cite= " " Given that the pandemic caused by Covid 19 is going to change the way the world works , it is possible that there will be tremendous pressure on the Tablighi Jamaat to also change with the times . Its religious puritanism can not become an excuse for endangering public health , nor can its criminal negligence in keeping infected foreign preachers and letting the infection spread be condoned/beautifulquote Given that the pandemic caused by Covid 19 is going to change the way the world works , it is possible that there will be tremendous pressure on the Tablighi Jamaat to also change with the times . Its religious puritanism can not become an excuse for endangering public health , nor can its criminal negligence in keeping infected foreign preachers and letting the infection spread be condoned . Every time an organisation like the Tablighi Jamaat is given a free pass , it is emboldened and it feels that it can cock a snook at authorities without any fear of consequences . Such impunity will have to end in the new world order that the Covid 19 crisis is likely to bring about . " " posttitle " =&gt; string(26) " The Tablighi Jamaat tangle " " postexcerpt " =&gt; string(0) " " " poststatus " =&gt; string(7) " publish " " commentstatus " =&gt; string(4) " open " " pingstatus " =&gt; string(6) " closed " " postpassword " =&gt; string(0) " " " postname " =&gt; string(32) " **32;20464;TOOLONG " " toping " =&gt; string(0) " " " pinged " =&gt; string(0) " " " postmodified " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-01 13:20:24 " " postmodifiedgmt " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-01 07:50:24 " " postcontentfiltered " =&gt; string(0) " " " postparent " =&gt; int(0) " guid " =&gt; string(63) " https : //www.orfonline.org/ ? posttype=expert- ... " menuorder " =&gt; int(7) " posttype " =&gt; string(13) " expert-speaks " " postmimetype " =&gt; string(0) " " " commentcount " =&gt; string(1) " 0 " " filter " =&gt; string(3) " raw " REQUESTURI : https : **39;20498;TOOLONG ... The Tablighi Jamaat tangleID : 63936date publish : 2020-04-01 10:06:54image : https : **39;20539;TOOLONG ... 
@@71845421 <p> Israeli occupation forces continue to attack Palestinian communities as they struggle to hold back the threat from the coronavirus pandemic . <p> Occupation forces wearing hazmat suits and carrying assault rifles raided a home near Ramallah early Tuesday : <p> According to local media , occupation forces detained at least four Palestinians during overnight raids on homes in and around the West Bank city of Ramallah , the seat of the Palestinian Authority . <p> On Tuesday evening , Israeli forces confiscated food parcels that were due to be distributed to quarantined families in Sur Baher , a village south of Jerusalem . <p> According to Palestinian media , occupation forces raided a school where the parcels were being prepared , detained four members of the local emergency committee and seized 300 food packages . <p> The charitable distribution was supported by contributions from Palestinian citizens of Israel . <p> Israeli forces also carried out raids and detentions in the occupied East Jerusalem neighborhood of Shuafat . <p> Other videos show Israeli forces assaulting and detaining Palestinians without taking any precautions to prevent potential transmission of the virus : <p> In this incident on Tuesday , occupation forces in the East Jerusalem village of Issawiyeh , violently wrestled and restrained a Palestinian man in front of his young son : <p> According to local media , the Israeli forces attacked a group of Palestinians who had been praying outside a local mosque . <p> Number of cases grows <p> As of Tuesday , there were 119 confirmed coronavirus cases among Palestinians , the vast majority of them in the occupied West Bank , though the number of cases is growing in Gaza . <p> According to the UN humanitarian coordination agency OCHA , the relatively low number " may reflect the limited testing capacity . " <p> Israel , whose caseload has surged to more than 5,000 , is struggling to contain the outbreak . <p> Even Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , army chief of staff Aviv Kochavi and other senior officers are now in isolation after coming into contact with infected persons . <p> The outbreak in Israel represents a direct threat to Palestinians . <p> Since 23 March , Israeli authorities have been expelling thousands of Palestinian workers from Israel to the occupied West Bank , " after some of them showed fatigue and high temperatures , " according to the human rights group Euro-Med Monitor . <p> " Most of the deportations took place without medical examinations or special arrangements with the Palestinian authorities , to ensure that workers are treated and examined upon return to ensure their well-being , which amounts to racial discrimination . " <p> The group stated these practices " pose a public health threat and makes it easier to spread COVID-19 among Palestinians . " <p> Euro-Med Monitor added that the first Palestinian to die from COVID-19 , a woman in the West Bank village of Biddu , was infected by her son who works in Israel . <p> A large number of the Palestinians who tested positive for the coronavirus " were infected during work in Israel or Israeli settlements in the West Bank , " the group said on Tuesday . <p> The Palestinian Authority has placed the areas of the West Bank that it controls under a lockdown since 22 March . <p> It has also recalled all Palestinian workers employed in Israel to the West Bank , where they are supposed to go into home quarantine for two weeks . <p> But as OCHA notes , " the scope of implementation remains unclear , as the construction sector in Israel , where most workers are employed , has remained active . " <p> There are also " no means of ensuring that they follow the home quarantine regulations . " <p> OCHA praised the " close cooperation between the Palestinian and Israel authorities " since the start of the coronavirus crisis . <p> The UN agency credits Israel for facilitating the import of 10,000 test kits by the Palestinian Authority and for holding a training for medical staff at East Jerusalem 's al-Makassed hospital . <p> Yet Israel 's continued attacks on the Palestinian population , potentially exposing them to contagion , make a mockery of any Israeli goodwill . <p> Concern for prisoners <p> There is also mounting alarm for the well-being of some 5,000 Palestinian political prisoners held by Israel . <p> " Our growing concern for Palestinian prisoners and detainees during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic grows out of the systematic and routine medical negligence inside Israeli detention and interrogation centers , " prisoners rights group Addameer said on Tuesday . <p> In 2019 , five Palestinians died in Israeli custody , three as a result of medical negligence , while hundreds suffer from chronic diseases that go untreated , according to Addameer . <p> The group is urging an international campaign to call for the release of all the prisoners . <p> Since early March , Israel has banned all family and lawyer visits to detained Palestinians , citing the coronavirus crisis . <p> Israeli prison authorities are also refusing to install landlines to allow prisoners to speak to their families -- as previously promised -- exacerbating their isolation . <p> Four Palestinian prisoners who came into contact with an infected Israeli prison worker in mid-March have now been taken out of quarantine . <p> Two were released to their families in the West Bank without being tested for the coronavirus , and two were returned to prison , Addameer said . <p> Gaza <p> Since Monday , health authorities in Gaza have announced three new coronavirus cases , bringing the total in the territory to 12 . <p> All those infected were travelers quarantined on return to Gaza , or security officers who had been in contact with them , who are also in quarantine . <p> There have as yet been no reports of community spread among the general population . <p> Yet there have been more warnings of the catastrophe that could ensue if such an outbreak occurs . <p> " The capacity of the Palestinian health system to cope with an expected increase in patients remains severely impaired by longstanding challenges and critical shortages , particularly in the Gaza Strip , " the UN humanitarian coordination agency OCHA , said . <p> " People in refugee camps and other poor , densely populated areas across the occupied Palestinian territories face a higher risk of contagion due to overcrowding and inadequate sanitation . " <p> Many Palestinian and international organizations and health experts have already warned of looming catastrophe if the pandemic reaches the population in Gaza , where the health system , water and sanitation and the economy have been severely degraded by three major Israeli military assaults and a tight siege in recent years . <p> Due to the virus , authorities in Gaza announced on Tuesday that educational institutions would remain closed indefinitely , along with other measures aimed at avoiding an outbreak . <p> Authorities in Gaza announced that they were allocating $1 million for emergency payments to 10,000 families who have lost their incomes due to the pandemic , and that another $300,000 had been donated from the salaries of government employees for redistribution to low-income families . <p> Turkey has agreed to prepare the hospital it supports in Gaza to care for COVID-19 patients . <p> International organizations have appealed for $34 million in emergency funding to fight the pandemic in the West Bank and Gaza , of which $9 million has already been contributed by development agencies , as well as the British and Irish governments . <p> This comes after Qatar previously pledged $150 million over six months in the effort to fight COVID-19 in Gaza . <p> On Tuesday , 100,000 families in Gaza began receiving $100 each donated by Qatar to help them through the crisis caused by the pandemic. 
@@71859359 <p> Due to the coronavirus outbreak , Palestinians took to social media to post pictures of victims of Israeli violence during the Great March of Return protests . They also raised the Palestinian flag from the balconies of their homes . <p> Homage is paid to the six Palestinians killed by Israeli forces on 30 March , 1976 ( Photo : Arab48 ) <p> On March 30 , Monday , Palestinians marked the 44th Land Day , as well as the 2nd anniversary of the Great March of Return protests . However , due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic , no mass rallies or demonstrations were organized . <p> Instead , activists and Palestine solidarity organizations announced an ' online rally ' and a ' Twitterstorm ' to mark the anniversaries and to highlight the suffering and struggles of Palestinians , especially in Gaza , where residents have been living under a crushing Israeli-Egyptian land , air and sea blockade for the past 14 years . <p> Palestinians in the occupied West Bank , occupied East Jerusalem and in the Gaza strip , as well as Palestinian diaspora across the world , took to raising the Palestinian flag on rooftops and balconies . Authorities in the Hamas-administered Gaza strip had also issued an advisory to its residents to stay at home and not venture out to the sites of the Great March of Return protests . Many Palestinians and international solidarity activists posted photos of themselves with the Palestinian flag and photos and names of the Palestinians killed during the Great March of Return protests since March 2018 . People also posted video messages of solidarity , singing songs and reading poetry . Gaza 's authorities had also planned to play sirens across the territory to mark the occasion , with traffic stopped for one hour . <p> Palestinians commemorate Land Day to mark the events of March 30 , 1976 , when Israeli police shot and killed six people who were protesting and resisting the Israeli confiscation of Palestinian land . The Israeli government had announced its intention to seize 21,000 dunums ( approximately 5190 acres ) of Palestinian land in the upper Galilee region in order to build illegal Jewish settlements . To oppose this decision , Palestinians living inside the state of Israel in mostly Arab majority towns had gone on a general strike . The Israeli police and security forces subsequently attacked the protesters , seriously wounding and arresting many Palestinians . <p> In 2018 , Palestinians in Gaza launched the Great March of Return protests on the border with Israel to demand an end to the Israeli-Egyptian blockade and the right of return of Palestinian refugees . The protests were held weekly on Fridays until recently . The Israeli army and security forces routinely cracked down on the protesters , killing close to 300 people and injuring approximately 25,000 , using rubber-coated metal bullets , tear gas canisters and even live ammunition . In the last few months preceding the COVID-19 outbreak , the protests had shrunk in size due to the high number of injuries and casualties inflicted by the Israeli forces and the intermittent ceasefires between the Palestinian resistance group Hamas and Israel . 
@@71859934 <p> The impoverished coastal strip has for years been under a blockade led by neighbouring Israel , which it says is needed to stop weapons and money reaching its enemy Hamas . <p> Gaza has reported 13 cases of coronavirus infection , all of whom are at quarantine facilities . But officials have voiced concern that a shortage of critical equipment and medical supplies could set off a rapid spread amongst the enclave 's two million people . <p> In a news briefing , Qidra said dozens of samples were awaiting testing , and that hundreds of people would likely have to remain in quarantine facilities as a result . <p> He appealed to international organisations to provide Gaza with testing kits as well as 100 ventilators and 140 beds for intensive care units . <p> Hamas has closed schools , mosques and wedding halls and banned large street gatherings to halt the contagion 's spread , but has not moved to impose a lockdown on Gaza 's 2 million residents , saying it was not yet necessary . <p> Israel , which tightly controls movement in and out of Gaza , last week linked any coronavirus aid it might offer Palestinians there to progress in its attempt to recover two Israeli soldiers lost during the 2014 war in the enclave . <p> Also last week , Norway , which chairs a major donor group to the Palestinians , pleaded for more funding for Gaza and the Israeli-occupied West Bank to help stave off a humanitarian disaster . <p> One death and 250 cases have been reported amongst Palestinians in the West Bank , territory Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East war and where the Palestinian Authority has limited self-rule . 
@@71860941 <h> When Pakistan decided to " lock down " the country in the third week of March , mosque congregations had to be ignored because most clerical leaders were not in favour of the closure . <p> Pakistan 's most vulnerable locus is the mosque where the devotees have to stand shoulder-to-shoulder to pray five times a day . ( Express photo/Representational ) <p> In the last week of February 2020 , the border post of the Balochistan province , Taftan , allowed 6,500 pilgrims to leave their confinement as suspected victims of COVID-19 and return home to their provinces in Pakistan as long as they were free of the virus . These were Shia pilgrims who had visited sacred shrines like Qom and Mashhad in Iran . <p> In early February , China had warned the world about the contagion , but Iran paid no heed and kept allowing travel to China , and took no quarantine action at Qom where thousands had gathered from around the world . Iranian authorities allowed the city to become a major epicentre of COVID-19 . The following month , around 90 per cent of the approximately 17,000 cases throughout the Middle East were linked to Iran . <p> Iranian leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , on March 3 , said something that most religious leaders in Pakistan were to soon repeat : " COVID-19 is not such a big tragedy and this country has overcome graver ones . The prayers of the pure youth and pious are very effective in repelling major tragedies . " After the death of 13 senior Iranian officials , among at least 30 who contracted the virus , he shifted to blaming America for starting the pandemic . <p> The thousands of pilgrims quarantined by Pakistan in Taftan hardly experienced adequate safety measures . People were herded into tents where the unaffected men and women also became infected . They were all Shias , and the largest numbers were from Sindh province in Pakistan , where its largest city , Karachi , with 22 million inhabitants , is located . Since none of these pilgrims were tested for infection , they became carriers , and today Pakistan has nearly a thousand coronavirus-stricken citizens , with reportedly eight dead by the end of March . <p> The Tablighi Jamaat of Pakistan is the largest such " invitation to Islam " organisation in Pakistan and , probably , in the world , judging from a million-strong congregation in Lahore every year . This March , the Lahore congregation became an international infector . An article in The New York Times reported how , " the gathering proved a perfect transmission point , infecting indeterminate numbers of Pakistanis , at least two Kyrgyz citizens and two Palestinians who flew home and introduced the virus to the Gaza Strip . A similar gathering of Tablighi Jamaat in Malaysia infected more than 620 participants who then returned to half a dozen countries across Southeast Asia " . <p> Pakistan 's most vulnerable locus is the mosque where the devotees have to stand shoulder-to-shoulder to pray five times a day . There are half a million mosques in Pakistan -- the count ca n't even be called accurate because of the changing nature of the mosque . In Pakistan , in the early days following 1947 , most Muslims prayed at home except on Fridays when some went to the mosque to join the congregation . Today , most people pray five times a day in neighbourhood mosques , which have consequently proliferated . <p> When Pakistan decided to " lock down " the country in the third week of March , mosque congregations had to be ignored because most clerical leaders were not in favour of the closure . Their response was close to what the Iranian supreme leader had said earlier -- and regretted -- that Allah will look after His believers . Then , Pakistan President Arif Alvi referred the matter to the highest Islamic authority -- the Jami'at al-Azhar or the Al-Azhar University , in Egypt . Only then did he get an edict in favour of the closure of all mosques : The clerical leaders would have still stood their ground but for the decision taken by Saudi Arabia to close all rituals in Mecca and Madina . <p> Pakistan took the middle ground , a decision which remains incomprehensible : That mosques will not be closed , but the prayers will only be conducted by no more than five people connected with the mosque administration . Evidence as per TV coverage , though , suggests that the police have had to actively stop citizens from heading to mosques to keep them safe . 
@@71876275 <h> Coronavirus Outbreak : How people are improvising with unusual face masks <p> A man wearing an alternative mask poses for a photograph in the Ugandan city of Kampala . <p> 1/15 <p> A resident uses an improvised face shield made from a plastic water tank to protect him from the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic walks in his neighbourhood in Manila , capital city of the Philippines . <p> 2/15 <p> A Palestinian mother entertains her children with makeshift masks made of cabbage as she cooks in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> 3/15 <p> A man wearing a facemask and goggles stands along a street during government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measures against the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus outskirts of Srinagar , state capital of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir . <p> 4/15 <p> A man poses with a handmade protective face mask , made out of a paper napkin , in Sceaux , south of Paris in France . <p> 5/15 <p> A man wears a face mask as a preventive measure against the spread of the new coronavirus , COVID-19 as he gets ready for a procession called ' ' The Chained ' ' in which residents chase and capture people dressed as Judas to chain and drag them along the streets as punishment for betraying Jesus Christ , as part of the activities of Holy Week , in Masatepe , 50 km south of Managua in Nicaragua . <p> 6/15 <p> A man wearing heart-shaped glasses with his face covered amid fears of the spread of the COVID-19 novel coronavirus , stands at market during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Chennai , state capital of the state of Tamil Nadu . <p> 7/15 <p> Brazilian fashion photographer Marcio Rodrigues wears a mask made with recyclable bottles , cans and boxes after over 20 days in which these garbage items were not collected because of the quarantine imposed to control the spread of the new coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) , in Belo Horizonte , Brazil . <p> 8/15 <p> A man wearing a face mask and a plastic bag on his head rides a bicycle on a street in Wuhan , China 's central Hubei province . <p> 9/15 <p> French leather creator Anissa Mekrabech , wearing the protective face mask she created for the deaf and the hearing-impaired people poses in Toulouse , southern France . <p> 10/15 <p> A Venezuelan migrant wears a plastic water bottle with a cutout to cover his face as he waits to be checked by health workers to rule out the novel coronavirus as part of his repatriation process in Cali , Colombia . <p> 11/15 <p> A woman wearing gloves and with her face and body covered against the spread of the novel coronavirus , walks a dog in Montevideo , Uruguay . <p> 12/15 <p> A woman wearing a home made protective mask walks in a street in Paris , France . <p> 13/15 <p> A woman wears a plastic water bottle to cover her face amid the spread of the coronavirus , COVID-19 disease , in Montevideo , Uruguay . <p> 14/15 <p> A policeman wears gloves and a face mask depicting a skull as a preventive measure against the spread of coronavirus as he stands guard in a street of Tegucigalpa in Honduras . <p> 15/15 <h> About The Gallery <p> Ever since reports of the coronavirus outbreak first surfaced in the media , masks have become a usual sight around the world . Apart from the surgical and N-95 masks , people are also using improvised version of face masks to protect themselves . Here 's a look at some unusual face masks ( Pictures/AFP ) <p> Sign up for all the latest news , top galleries and trending videos from Mid-day.com <p> This website uses cookie or similar technologies , to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations . By continuing to use our website , you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy . OK 
@@71878945 <h> COVID-19 and the gameplay of West Asia 's geopolitics <p> It is now fairly clear that the global spread ; reaction and containment efforts of the COVID19 pandemic will have an adverse effect on the global order as we have known it in the post World War II era . Globalization is under duress , and multilateral systems such as the UN and its associate bodies , specifically the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) , are ( rightly ) becoming theatres of rivalry between the US and China . <p> The effects of the virus have been glaring in West Asia ( Middle East ) as well . Most countries in the region are suffering from outbreaks , the UAE has clocked over 2,300 cases , Iran is home to the biggest crisis in the region with over 60,000 cases and 3,000 deaths , and even Gaza has reported more than 10 cases with an imminent threat of a rapid spread in the embattled enclave . Saudi Arabia , meanwhile , has reported more than 2,700 cases and 41 deaths while Israel has over 9,000 cases and 71 deaths . <p> Previously , the West Asian region has had experience with a similar kind of virus , albeit at a smaller scale . The Middle East respirator Syndrome , or MERS Co-V was discovered in Saudi Arabia in 2012 , and spread across 27 countries . The virus as of January 2020 had only 2500 cases since 2012 , with 866 deaths . Most cases in West Asia remained in Saudi Arabia ( 1029 ) , followed by UAE ( 74 ) , Jordan ( 19 ) and Qatar ( 10 ) . The MERS virus was much more contained , allowing individual countries to manage their own outbreaks in consultation with organizations such as WHO , not requiring regional common solidarity to tackle the same . COVID19 , however , has been drastically different . <p> In midst of the state responses to COVID19 in the region , the Syrian civil war continues , with the country having next to no capacity to diagnose or test in between the conflict . Amidst the region 's geopolitics and continuous conflicts from Syria to Yemen , there reside millions of refugees staying in camps with bare minimum resources . Areas such as Idlib are still seeing military activity on a daily basis amidst the rapid spread of the pandemic . If unchecked , millions of refugees in the region face the infection without any defences , and hundreds of thousands of them may die from the disease without having a chance . <p> However , the fight against COVID19 has also provided opportunities in the region to build bridges , working toward a common goal despite the fissures of political adversity . The UAE , a steadfast ally of Saudi Arabia and the US 's increasingly vocal narratives against Iran since the dissolution of the JCPOA nuclear agreement by the Trump administration , extended humanitarian aid to Tehran . In what is being seen as a peace gesture , however , previously as well the UAE has attempted to distance itself from the erratic policies the US against Iran , which puts country 's megacities and mega markets in Dubai and Abu Dhabi in direct threat . More than geo-political gameplay , an outreach to Iran by UAE in a time of need is also the emirate securing its own future as a major economic recession sets in , even if the Saudis , US and Iran continue to march forward in with the pre-pandemic status quos . <p> This juncture also puts Saudi Arabia in a dilemma . The rise of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ( MBS ) as the king in waiting came via the past few years of him cementing his authority , quelling dissent within the House of Saud and the kingdom , and forging a pathway to rejig Saudi 's economy away from its complete dependence on oil . To achieve this , MBS had started to shift the Saudi society and polity away from its rigid conservatism , allowing women to drive , opening up the economy for foreign investments , Western entertainment , culture , concerts and so on . This economically critical and politically precarious shift in Saudi relied on a robust and stable global economy , managing a long-term transformation away from the petro dollars . At the end , Saudi wanted what the UAE has achieved over the past two decades . <p> In midst of the unfolding global pandemic , Saudi also managed to embroil itself in an oil price war with Russia as the global economy jittered . One of OPEC 's main ideals is to stabilize prices in the global markets , which maintains the oil producing nations coffers and steadies supplies to the large oil consuming nations , which today for West Asian producers reside in Asia and led by China and India . In January , Moscow wanted to provide a dent into the American shale industry , which has allowed the US till a large extent to become energy self-sufficient . As the COVID19 virus spread , industrial demands dropped drastically , and global transportation came to a halt pushing the price of oil below $24 per barrel . Russia , a non-OPEC member , refused to cut production , making the prices tank further , significantly hurting economies such as Saudi Arabia . In February , the US sanctioned Russia 's largest energy company , Rosneft , for supporting the regime of oil rich Venezuela , as the oil war intensified . The tug-of-war between Riyadh and Moscow was taking place as the world stood on the cliff of a recession . <p> Meanwhile , as is the nature of geo-politics , there was also a certain level of realpolitik visible amidst this ensuing chaos . Antoine Halff , a research scholar at Columbia University 's Center on Global Energy Policy , presented an interesting geo-political take of the price war . Halff argued that for the geo-politics of oil between Saudi and Russia , the two largest producers , COVID19 has provided a cliff where Riyadh and Moscow get to test global oil capacity storage limits . Halff invokes the concept of game theory , led by the thinking of Fields Medal laureate Pierre-Louis Lions and Jean Michael Lasery . Halff argues that Saudi and Russia walked into this price war amidst a global pandemic , by design , knowing fully well the kind of impact it would have on their economy , but perhaps more importantly , how it would impact the global economy and how both of them will be able to weather it while testing capacities , relations and balances . Perhaps more importantly , both Riyadh and Moscow took the opportunity of the pandemic to reign in American shale , arguably making it an outlier instead of US being center stage in global oil production . A geo-political " masterstroke " , if you will , by both an ally and an adversary . <p> " It usually takes some kind of shock to get the dominant monopoly to go into cliff mode . In the late 1990s , the catalyst was the negative demand shock of the Asian financial crisis . During the most recent oil market crash , in 2014 , it was the supply shock of US shale oil . For some time , the model shows , the market had been waiting for the right signal . The coronavirus has provided it , " Halff argued . <p> The effects of COVID19 on the geo-politics of one of the most volatile regions in the world are playing out on multiple levels . While the internal dynamics of the power struggles between the three poles of power , Iran , Saudi Arabia and Israel , continue to evolve , how much COVID19 is going to change the nature of the region 's political balances will ultimately depend now on larger economic themes . Anecdotally , since COVID19 had hit Iran , Saudi , Israel and UAE , the number of reported attacks by militias in Syria , air strikes by Israel in that country and so on have seen a drop , as operating ' normally ' in these times can have serious repercussions domestically , with the number of cases , and number of deaths rising in all of these countries . While these warring countries would accept domestic political strife made by COVID19 as a long-term benefit against one and other , playing on the governance deficits that remain in the region , analysts such as Frederic Wehrey have already started to ask the question , that will the COVID19 fallout end up triggering a second Arab Spring ? <h> People <p> Kabir Taneja is a Fellow with Strategic Studies programme . His research focuses on India 's relations with West Asia , specifically looking at the domestic political dynamics , terrorism , non-state militant actors and the general security paradigm of the region . <p> It is now fairly clear that the global spread ; reaction and containment efforts of the COVID19 pandemic will have an adverse effect on the global order as we have known it in the post World War II era . Globalization is under duress , and multilateral systems such as the UN and its associate bodies , specifically the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) , are ( rightly ) becoming theatres of rivalry between the US and China . <p> The effects of the virus have been glaring in West Asia ( Middle East ) as well . Most countries in the region are suffering from outbreaks , the UAE has clocked over 2,300 cases , Iran is home to the biggest crisis in the region with over 60,000 cases and 3,000 deaths , and even Gaza has reported more than 10 cases with an imminent threat of a rapid spread in the embattled enclave . Saudi Arabia , meanwhile , has reported more than 2,700 cases and 41 deaths while Israel has over 9,000 cases and 71 deaths . <p> Previously , the West Asian region has had experience with a similar kind of virus , albeit at a smaller scale . The Middle East respirator Syndrome , or MERS Co-V was discovered in Saudi Arabia in 2012 , and spread across 27 countries . The virus as of January 2020 had only 2500 cases since 2012 , with 866 deaths . Most cases in West Asia remained in Saudi Arabia ( 1029 ) , followed by UAE ( 74 ) , Jordan ( 19 ) and Qatar ( 10 ) . The MERS virus was much more contained , allowing individual countries to manage their own outbreaks in consultation with organizations such as WHO , not requiring regional common solidarity to tackle the same . COVID19 , however , has been drastically different . <p> In midst of the state responses to COVID19 in the region , the Syrian civil war continues , with the country having next to no capacity to diagnose or test in between the conflict . Amidst the region 's geopolitics and continuous conflicts from Syria to Yemen , there reside millions of refugees staying in camps with bare minimum resources . Areas such as Idlib are still seeing military activity on a daily basis amidst the rapid spread of the pandemic . If unchecked , millions of refugees in the region face the infection without any defences , and hundreds of thousands of them may die from the disease without having a chance . <p> However , the fight against COVID19 has also provided opportunities in the region to build bridges , working toward a common goal despite the fissures of political adversity . The UAE , a steadfast ally of Saudi Arabia and the US 's increasingly vocal narratives against Iran since the dissolution of the JCPOA nuclear agreement by the Trump administration , extended humanitarian aid to Tehran . In what is being seen as a peace gesture , however , previously as well the UAE has attempted to distance itself from the erratic policies the US against Iran , which puts country 's megacities and mega markets in Dubai and Abu Dhabi in direct threat . More than geo-political gameplay , an outreach to Iran by UAE in a time of need is also the emirate securing its own future as a major economic recession sets in , even if the Saudis , US and Iran continue to march forward in with the pre-pandemic status quos . <p> This juncture also puts Saudi Arabia in a dilemma . The rise of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ( MBS ) as the king in waiting came via the past few years of him cementing his authority , quelling dissent within the House of Saud and the kingdom , and forging a pathway to rejig Saudi 's economy away from its complete dependence on oil . To achieve this , MBS had started to shift the Saudi society and polity away from its rigid conservatism , allowing women to drive , opening up the economy for foreign investments , Western entertainment , culture , concerts and so on . This economically critical and politically precarious shift in Saudi relied on a robust and stable global economy , managing a long-term transformation away from the petro dollars . At the end , Saudi wanted what the UAE has achieved over the past two decades . <p> In midst of the unfolding global pandemic , Saudi also managed to embroil itself in an oil price war with Russia as the global economy jittered . One of OPEC 's main ideals is to stabilize prices in the global markets , which maintains the oil producing nations coffers and steadies supplies to the large oil consuming nations , which today for West Asian producers reside in Asia and led by China and India . In January , Moscow wanted to provide a dent into the American shale industry , which has allowed the US till a large extent to become energy self-sufficient . As the COVID19 virus spread , industrial demands dropped drastically , and global transportation came to a halt pushing the price of oil below $24 per barrel . Russia , a non-OPEC member , refused to cut production , making the prices tank further , significantly hurting economies such as Saudi Arabia . In February , the US sanctioned Russia 's largest energy company , Rosneft , for supporting the regime of oil rich Venezuela , as the oil war intensified . The tug-of-war between Riyadh and Moscow was taking place as the world stood on the cliff of a recession . <p> Meanwhile , as is the nature of geo-politics , there was also a certain level of realpolitik visible amidst this ensuing chaos . Antoine Halff , a research scholar at Columbia University 's Center on Global Energy Policy , presented an interesting geo-political take of the price war . Halff argued that for the geo-politics of oil between Saudi and Russia , the two largest producers , COVID19 has provided a cliff where Riyadh and Moscow get to test global oil capacity storage limits . Halff invokes the concept of game theory , led by the thinking of Fields Medal laureate Pierre-Louis Lions and Jean Michael Lasery . Halff argues that Saudi and Russia walked into this price war amidst a global pandemic , by design , knowing fully well the kind of impact it would have on their economy , but perhaps more importantly , how it would impact the global economy and how both of them will be able to weather it while testing capacities , relations and balances . Perhaps more importantly , both Riyadh and Moscow took the opportunity of the pandemic to reign in American shale , arguably making it an outlier instead of US being center stage in global oil production . A geo-political " masterstroke " , if you will , by both an ally and an adversary . <p> " It usually takes some kind of shock to get the dominant monopoly to go into cliff mode . In the late 1990s , the catalyst was the negative demand shock of the Asian financial crisis . During the most recent oil market crash , in 2014 , it was the supply shock of US shale oil . For some time , the model shows , the market had been waiting for the right signal . The coronavirus has provided it , " Halff argued . <p> The effects of COVID19 on the geo-politics of one of the most volatile regions in the world are playing out on multiple levels . While the internal dynamics of the power struggles between the three poles of power , Iran , Saudi Arabia and Israel , continue to evolve , how much COVID19 is going to change the nature of the region 's political balances will ultimately depend now on larger economic themes . Anecdotally , since COVID19 had hit Iran , Saudi , Israel and UAE , the number of reported attacks by militias in Syria , air strikes by Israel in that country and so on have seen a drop , as operating ' normally ' in these times can have serious repercussions domestically , with the number of cases , and number of deaths rising in all of these countries . While these warring countries would accept domestic political strife made by COVID19 as a long-term benefit against one and other , playing on the governance deficits that remain in the region , analysts such as Frederic Wehrey have already started to ask the question , that will the COVID19 fallout end up triggering a second Arab Spring ? 
@@71883300 <p> The UNHCR said they may be forced into ' survival sex ' or child marriages . Lockdowns imposed to control the spread of COVID-19 have restricted movement and led to the closure of services . <p> SNS Web New Delhi April 20 , 2020 2:17 pm <p> A Palestinian volunteer for the Women 's Program Center rides a bicycle used to distribute crafts and reading material packages to children in confinement due to the novel coronavirus pandemic , at the center 's premises in the central Deir al-Balah refugee camp in the Gaza Strip , on April 12 , 2020 . ( Photo : MAHMUD HAMS / AFP ) <p> Amid Coronavirus pandemic the United Nations Refugee Agency said on Monday that the displaced women and girls are facing a heightened risk of gender-based violence during this crisis . <p> The UNHCR said they may be forced into " survival sex " or child marriages . Lockdowns imposed to control the spread of COVID-19 have restricted movement and led to the closure of services . <p> " We need to pay urgent attention to the protection of refugee , displaced and stateless women and girls at the time of this pandemic , " said Gillian Triggs , the UNHCR assistant high commissioner for protection . <p> " They are among those most at-risk . Doors should not be left open for abusers and no help spared for women surviving abuse and violence . " She said displaced women could end up confined with their abusers , while others , having lost their precarious livelihoods , " may be forced into survival sex , or child marriages by their families " , said Triggs . <p> The restrictions imposed in many countries in response to the coronavirus pandemic mean limited access to support services , said the UNHCR . <p> It also added that some safe shelters had been temporarily suspended . <p> Emergency cash is being distributed by the UNHCR to the survivors and women deemed to be at risk of gender-based violence . <p> Governments around the world must ensure that the " rising risks of violence " for displaced women are taken into account in their COVID-19 action plans , suggested Triggs . <p> Services for survivors of gender-based violence should be designated as essential and remain accessible to help them sail through the Coronavirus pandemic . <p> Earlier , the UN report launched on Thursday , highlighted that the COVID-19 pandemic is turning into a broader child-rights crisis as the social and economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic is potentially catastrophic for millions of children . <p> The pandemic could push an estimated 42 to 66 million children into extreme poverty and the economic downturn resulting from the outbreak which could result in hundreds of thousands of additional child deaths in 2020 , the United Nations said on Thursday . " Children are not the face of this pandemic . But they risk being among its biggest victims . While they have thankfully been largely spared from the direct health effects of COVID-19 -- at least to date -- the crisis is having a profound effect on their wellbeing , " according to a new ' Policy Brief : The impact of COVID-19 on children " released by the United Nations on Thursday . 
@@71887528 <h> China 's COVID-19 relief diplomacy in West Asia <p> China 's role and expansion in West Asia over the past few years has been a story that may not have got the attention it deserves . Beijing has slowly taken over the economic vacuum left by the West in the restive region , without getting entangled in its geopolitical fault lines . From Tehran to Riyadh and to Tel Aviv , China has already , or is near becoming one of the top two trading partners of these countries . <p> To drive home the above argument , Israel , the de-facto ally , critical and instrumental historic foreign policy aim of Washington DC in the region is now also negotiating a trade deal with China . As per reports , the deal that has been in negotiation secretly may be completed within the year , and the COVID-19 pandemic may end up providing that final push . In Tel Aviv , the technology and startup capital of the region , Beijing 's money is visible in new programmes promoting the startup industry , with traditional Chinese lanterns welcoming people in many office foyers that host these tech initiatives . Israel has maintained a balance in its ties with the US with Tel Aviv signing a deal with Beijing for COVID-19 testing kits , allowing it to conduct more than 10,000 tests per day . <h> In Tel Aviv , the technology and startup capital of the region , Beijing 's money is visible in new programmes promoting the startup industry , with traditional Chinese lanterns welcoming people in many office foyers that host these tech initiatives . <p> The pandemic has hit the region hard , with Iran taking much of the brunt with a history of the virus being traced to air travel between the holy Shiite city of Qom and China , a popular route used by Iranian traders . Since then , China has come forward as a big source of help for an embattled Iran , under sanctions , and unable to purchase critical medical supplies . China , of course , has invested heavily in Iran over the past few years , expecting the country to become a critical infrastructure hub in its Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) connecting deeper into Central Asia and beyond . <p> Meanwhile , Iran 's neighbor Turkey , which now hosts the most number of COVID-19 cases in the region has had fleeting relations with Beijing as part of the latter 's ' tonnes of friendship ' diplomacy . Under pressure from the pandemic , President Recep Erdogan 's government rejected Chinese made COVID-19 test kits , saying they were only 30 -- 35% accurate . Others in Europe such as Spain , Czech Republic and The Netherlands have said the same , with Beijing defending itself that countries should purchase from verified and proven suppliers . This is important , the fact that China is selling more , and actually donating less . Despite questions being raised on the quality of Chinese equipment , Beijing has continued press ahead with its soft power outreach , such as pushing for a re-packaged " Health Silk Road " within its BRI , specifically with Iran and Turkey , both of whom have been at odds with the US . <p> However , interestingly , contrary to how Beijing 's traditional soft power works , it was the Gulf states that initiated this cooperation when the virus broke through in the city of Wuhan . Qatar , responded by sending multiple relief flights carrying supplies to help the Wuhan region , followed by similar moves by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia . While Chinese missions in the region praised the Gulf states for their forthcoming nature to provide help , it was not long before China started to reverse-engineer the global response against its pandemic itself , putting a Chinese colour to it and approaching capitals across the world with aid , supplies , and perhaps more straightforwardly , selling supplies , thanks to the country being host to much of the world 's global supply chain in manufacturing . <h> In 2016 , China released its white paper on China -- Arab cooperation , in which healthcare also found prominent mention . <p> While Chinese diplomats called the outreach by Gulf states as " unforgettable " , the foreign minister of the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) called China a " role model " for disseminating hope in the fight against the virus . In 2016 , China released its white paper on China -- Arab cooperation , in which healthcare also found prominent mention . " We will strengthen exchanges and cooperation in traditional and modern medicine , pay attention to the prevention and control of communicable and non-communicable diseases , especially to cooperation on information sharing and monitoring of epidemics , and promote exchange of visits by experts from both sides . We will advance cooperation between medical institutions and enhance exchanges on clinical technology . We will continue to send medical teams and continuously improve service , " the paper said . A few days after the release of this document , China 's President Xi Jinping visited the region 's warring poles of power , Saudi Arabia and Iran . In 2018 , he visited the UAE as well , amidst much fanfare . <p> However , the Chinese outreach in West Asia has been arguably subtle and careful . While they have facilitated purchase of supplies , donated masks and helped build medical facilities , dispatch of medical workers has been limited . Interestingly , one country that did get a Chinese plane full of supplies and medical workers to help fight the pandemic was Iraq . On 9 March , a team of Chinese medical workers arrived in Baghdad on board an Iraqi Airways Boeing 777 instead of a China flagged aircraft , in what could be an attempt to dilute the soft-power optics in a country where external influence and mediation is seen with significant suspicion irrespective of the crisis at play . With American power in retreat , Chinese soft power coupled with its economic muscle has significant manoeuvre space in the region , including in the most fragile political states . <p> Intriguingly , the Chinese approach towards the region is very similar to that of India , which is to maintain diplomatic relations with all power centers independently , without stepping on the toes of the centuries old regional fractures . Beijing has even sent aid to Palestine , to ease an increasingly worrying situation in Gaza . The difference is , of course , pure capacity between Beijing and New Delhi . China , with BRI , a bottomless war chest to promote its global diplomacy , in battle with the US for dominance and an authoritarian system that is prepared to push its narrative irrespective of the consequences . While India has initiated diplomatic moves in the region by sending medical aid to states such as Kuwait , it also has the burden of managing a large migrant population , which in a pandemic , will add extra pressure on host countries in the Gulf . New Delhi in turn will urge states who are the major source of migrants to the Gulf to repatriate them safely . For New Delhi , this becomes a bigger problem with more than eight million Indians working in the extended Gulf region , ranging from skilled to mostly semi-skilled labour . Of the 3,336 Indians infected with the virus abroad in 53 countries , 2,061 are in the Gulf . India 's focus automatically becomes managing its citizens , while China 's largely remains expanding its clout . <h> With American power in retreat , Chinese soft power coupled with its economic muscle has significant manoeuvre space in the region , including in the most fragile political states . <p> For the Gulf states , a pandemic is both a regional crisis but also a domestic challenge . With most countries being authoritarian , led by monarchs , a pandemic causing large-scale deaths and economic devastation is a serious crisis to the states in the region if the pandemic is not brought under control . However , for the likes of Saudi Arabia , Iran and Qatar that rely on export of hydrocarbons and look for inward investment , Beijing today comes as a natural collaborator . The ' Westlessness ' of the western global architecture and lack of quick responses to fill this vacuum of capacity , not ideas , has driven the current outreach of China to West Asia with a large degree of success . Despite being the source of the COVID-19 pandemic that brought the world a neo-Great Depression , China still sees itself as free from any culpability . <h> People <p> Kabir Taneja is a Fellow with Strategic Studies programme . His research focuses on India 's relations with West Asia , specifically looking at the domestic political dynamics , terrorism , non-state militant actors and the general security paradigm of the region . <p> object(WPPost)#841 ( 24 ) " ID " =&gt; int(65023) " postauthor " =&gt; string(1) " 1 " " postdate " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-22 17:30:18 " " postdategmt " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-22 12:00:18 " " postcontent " =&gt; string(10775) " China 's role and expansion in West Asia over the past few years has been a story that may not have got the attention it deserves . Beijing has slowly taken over the economic vacuum left by the West in the restive region , without getting entangled in its geopolitical fault lines . From Tehran to Riyadh and to Tel Aviv , China has already , or is near becoming one of the top two trading partners of these countries . To drive home the above argument , Israel , the de-facto ally , critical and instrumental historic foreign policy aim of Washington DC in the region is now also negotiating a trade deal with China . As per reports , the deal that has been in negotiation secretly may be completed within the year , and the COVID-19 pandemic may end up providing that final push . In Tel Aviv , the technology and startup capital of the region , Beijing 's money is visible in new programmes promoting the startup industry , with traditional Chinese lanterns welcoming people in many office foyers that host these tech initiatives . Israel has maintained a balance in its ties with the US with Tel Aviv signing a deal with Beijing for COVID-19 testing kits , allowing it to conduct more than 10,000 tests per day . <h> pullquoteIn Tel Aviv , the technology and startup capital of the region , Beijing 's money is visible in new programmes promoting the startup industry , with traditional Chinese lanterns welcoming people in many office foyers that host these tech initiatives. /pullquote <p> The pandemic has hit the region hard , with Iran taking much of the brunt with a history of the virus being traced to air travel between the holy Shiite city of Qom and China , a popular route used by Iranian traders . Since then , China has come forward as a big source of help for an embattled Iran , under sanctions , and unable to purchase critical medical supplies . China , of course , has invested heavily in Iran over the past few years , expecting the country to become a critical infrastructure hub in its Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) connecting deeper into Central Asia and beyond . Meanwhile , Iran 's neighbor Turkey , which now hosts the most number of COVID-19 cases in the region has had fleeting relations with Beijing as part of the latter 's ' tonnes of friendship ' diplomacy . Under pressure from the pandemic , President Recep Erdogan 's government rejected Chinese made COVID-19 test kits , saying they were only 30 -- 35% accurate . Others in Europe such as Spain , Czech Republic and The Netherlands have said the same , with Beijing defending itself that countries should purchase from verified and proven suppliers . This is important , the fact that China is selling more , and actually donating less . Despite questions being raised on the quality of Chinese equipment , Beijing has continued press ahead with its soft power outreach , such as pushing for a re-packaged " Health Silk Road " within its BRI , specifically with Iran and Turkey , both of whom have been at odds with the US . However , interestingly , contrary to how Beijing 's traditional soft power works , it was the Gulf states that initiated this cooperation when the virus broke through in the city of Wuhan . Qatar , responded by sending multiple relief flights carrying supplies to help the Wuhan region , followed by similar moves by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia . While Chinese missions in the region praised the Gulf states for their forthcoming nature to provide help , it was not long before China started to reverse-engineer the global response against its pandemic itself , putting a Chinese colour to it and approaching capitals across the world with aid , supplies , and perhaps more straightforwardly , selling supplies , thanks to the country being host to much of the world 's global supply chain in manufacturing . <h> pullquoteIn 2016 , China released its white paper on China -- Arab cooperation , in which healthcare also found prominent mention. /pullquote <p> While Chinese diplomats called the outreach by Gulf states as " unforgettable " , the foreign minister of the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) called China a " role model " for disseminating hope in the fight against the virus . In 2016 , China released its white paper on China -- Arab cooperation , in which healthcare also found prominent mention . " We will strengthen exchanges and cooperation in traditional and modern medicine , pay attention to the prevention and control of communicable and non-communicable diseases , especially to cooperation on information sharing and monitoring of epidemics , and promote exchange of visits by experts from both sides . We will advance cooperation between medical institutions and enhance exchanges on clinical technology . We will continue to send medical teams and continuously improve service , " the paper said . A few days after the release of this document , China 's President Xi Jinping visited the region 's warring poles of power , Saudi Arabia and Iran . In 2018 , he visited the UAE as well , amidst much fanfare . However , the Chinese outreach in West Asia has been arguably subtle and careful . While they have facilitated purchase of supplies , donated masks and helped build medical facilities , dispatch of medical workers has been limited . Interestingly , one country that did get a Chinese plane full of supplies and medical workers to help fight the pandemic was Iraq . On 9 March , a team of Chinese medical workers arrived in Baghdad on board an Iraqi Airways Boeing 777 instead of a China flagged aircraft , in what could be an attempt to dilute the soft-power optics in a country where external influence and mediation is seen with significant suspicion irrespective of the crisis at play . With American power in retreat , Chinese soft power coupled with its economic muscle has significant manoeuvre space in the region , including in the most fragile political states . Intriguingly , the Chinese approach towards the region is very similar to that of India , which is to maintain diplomatic relations with all power centers independently , without stepping on the toes of the centuries old regional fractures . Beijing has even sent aid to Palestine , to ease an increasingly worrying situation in Gaza . The difference is , of course , pure capacity between Beijing and New Delhi . China , with BRI , a bottomless war chest to promote its global diplomacy , in battle with the US for dominance and an authoritarian system that is prepared to push its narrative irrespective of the consequences . While India has initiated diplomatic moves in the region by sending medical aid to states such as Kuwait , it also has the burden of managing a large migrant population , which in a pandemic , will add extra pressure on host countries in the Gulf . New Delhi in turn will urge states who are the major source of migrants to the Gulf to repatriate them safely . For New Delhi , this becomes a bigger problem with more than eight million Indians working in the extended Gulf region , ranging from skilled to mostly semi-skilled labour . Of the 3,336 Indians infected with the virus abroad in 53 countries , 2,061 are in the Gulf . India 's focus automatically becomes managing its citizens , while China 's largely remains expanding its clout . <h> pullquoteWith American power in retreat , Chinese soft power coupled with its economic muscle has significant manoeuvre space in the region , including in the most fragile political states. /pullquote <p> For the Gulf states , a pandemic is both a regional crisis but also a domestic challenge . With most countries being authoritarian , led by monarchs , a pandemic causing large-scale deaths and economic devastation is a serious crisis to the states in the region if the pandemic is not brought under control . However , for the likes of Saudi Arabia , Iran and Qatar that rely on export of hydrocarbons and look for inward investment , Beijing today comes as a natural collaborator . The ' Westlessness ' of the western global architecture and lack of quick responses to fill this vacuum of capacity , not ideas , has driven the current outreach of China to West Asia with a large degree of success . Despite being the source of the COVID-19 pandemic that brought the world a neo-Great Depression , China still sees itself as free from any culpability. " " posttitle " =&gt; string(48) " China 's COVID-19 relief diplomacy in West Asia " " postexcerpt " =&gt; string(71) " The Chinese outreach in West Asia has been arguably subtle and careful . " " poststatus " =&gt; string(7) " publish " " commentstatus " =&gt; string(4) " open " " pingstatus " =&gt; string(6) " closed " " postpassword " =&gt; string(0) " " " postname " =&gt; string(46) " **44;30059;TOOLONG ... " toping " =&gt; string(0) " " " pinged " =&gt; string(0) " " " postmodified " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-22 17:30:18 " " postmodifiedgmt " =&gt; string(19) " 2020-04-22 12:00:18 " " postcontentfiltered " =&gt; string(0) " " " postparent " =&gt; int(0) " guid " =&gt; string(63) " https : //www.orfonline.org/ ? posttype=expert- ... " menuorder " =&gt; int(0) " posttype " =&gt; string(13) " expert-speaks " " postmimetype " =&gt; string(0) " " " commentcount " =&gt; string(1) " 0 " " filter " =&gt; string(3) " raw " REQUESTURI : https : **39;30105;TOOLONG ... China 's COVID-19 relief diplomacy in West AsiaID : 65023date publish : 2020-04-22 17:30:18image : https : **39;30146;TOOLONG ... 
@@71895244 <p> Masked students sit in their class , after being given a herbal extract believed to protect from COVID-19 , in Antananarivo , Madagascar as school re-opened after being closed for a month due the coronavirus . Students have to drink the extract as schools resume classes where they now are seated one to a desk instead of two , for social distancing . <p> In this photo , deckhand Gerard Bakulikira , wears a Romware COVID Radius digital bracelet , which flashes red when he is too close to someone else , as he walks on deck of a tugboat in the Port of Antwerp , Belgium . Europe 's second biggest port is readying to test an electronic device aimed at helping people respect social distancing as the spread of the coronavirus eases and they return to work . From next month , two teams of workers at the Belgian port of Antwerp will be wearing chunky plastic bracelets that vibrate and flash lights when they get too close to each other . <p> Sanitation workers wearing Personal Protective Equipment ( PPE ) kit spray disinfectants in Kalyanpuri area as a precautionary measure against the spread of coronavirus , during the nationwide lockdown , in East Delhi . <p> Border Security Force ( BSF ) personnel escort a central representative team to MR Bangur Hospital , where COVID-19 patients are treated , during the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus , in Kolkata . <p> People wait to receive food assistance ahead of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan , during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown to help contain the spread of the coronavirus , in Lahore , Pakistan . Ramadan begins with the new moon later this week as Muslims all around the world are trying to work out how to maintain the many cherished rituals of Islam 's holiest month amid the coronavirus pandemic . <p> Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee ( DPCC ) President Anil Kumar ( R ) distributes food among the needy after inauguration of ' Congress Ki Rasoi ' , during the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus , at DPCC office in New Delhi . <p> Slum dwellers , oblivious of social distancing guidelines , queue up to receive face masks from the members of the National Human Rights and Crime Control Organization during ongoing COVID-19 lockdown , in Amritsar . <p> A board with a message Delhi Police , Dil Ki Police written on it , hangs on a barricade as police personnel stops commuters at a checkpoint during the nationwide lockdown , to curb the spread of coronavirus , at Laxmi Nagar in New Delhi . <p> Five hardcore United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent ( ULFA-I ) cadres ( seated foreground ) , who were arrested by the Indian Army and Assam Police during search operations , in Charaideo district of Assam . A cache of arms and ammunition was also sized from their possession . <p> Locals affected by the anti-coronavirus government measures wait in line to receive a free meal outside the office of volunteer group Klongtoey Dee Jung in Klong Toey slum , Bangkok , Thailand . Klongtoey Dee Jung conducts welfare projects in improvised Klong Toey slum area with hundreds of informal workers that are affected by closure of business in Thailand . <p> People wearing masks against the spread of the new coronavirus walk past an electronic stock board showing Japan 's Nikkei 225 index at a securities firm in Tokyo . Asian shares rose moderately Thursday following a rally on Wall Street and even oil prices recovering from their recent plunge to zero . <p> Flag waving , sign bearing protesters line up on the street during a protest against New York 's social distancing restrictions in front of the State Capitol Building in Albany , N.Y . Similar " Operation Gridlock " protests publicized on social media have been happening across the country , with organizers calling the shutdown an extreme example of governmental overreach . <p> The karate coach of Khaled Sheikh el Eid , front , and his sons and daughters , train together on the roof of their family house , during the coronavirus pandemic , at Rafah refugee camp , southern Gaza Strip . <p> State Sen. Creigh Deeds , D-Bath , left , carries a box after the reconvene session to order at the Science Museum of Virginia in Richmond , Va . The Senate met at the Science Museum of Virginia due to coronavirus social distancing restrictions . <p> In this photo provided by All Nippon Airways , boxes containing masks and other medical supplies sit on the passenger seats on an ANA airplane from Shanghai , China , on its arrival at Haneda airport in Tokyo , Japan . The airline company started using passengers 's space for freight delivery amid the outbreak of the new coronavirus . <p> In this photo released by the UK Parliament , showing opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer , sitting centre left , faces Dominic Raab , standing centre right , inside of the House of Commons as members practice social distancing measures to combat COVID-19 coronavirus , as parliament goes online with most members of parliament participating via a video link , during Prime Minister 's Questions time in London , Wednesday April 22 , 2020 . Dominic Raab answers a question , standing in for Prime Minister Boris Johnson who is still convalescing after contracting COVID-19 coronavirus . <p> Anti-government protesters stand on the top of their cars and wave a Lebanese flag and a cardboard fist labelled " Revolution " , as they protest by driving through the streets to express rejection of the political leadership they blame for the economic and financial crisis , in Beirut , Lebanon . Lebanon 's parliament began Tuesday a three-day legislative session at a Beirut theater so that legislators can observe coronavirus social distancing measures , as protests against the country 's ruling elite in the crisis-hit country resumed . <p> A herd of wild elephants graze near a road in Malakkappara , Thrissur district , in the southern Indian state of Kerala . Vehicular traffic through this road has almost ceased because of the ongoing lockdown and wild elephants have appeared close to human habitat . 
@@71896871 <p> Netflix dropped the 3rd season of Fauda ( Chaos ) on Thursday and by now I am sure all fans of the Israeli TV series have binge-watched it and are waiting for Season 4 . I did . <p> Season 3 , like the earlier two , has at its centre Doron Kavillio ( Lior Raz ) of the Mista'arvim counter-terrorism commando unit , and somewhere around him , as always , is a Hamas terrorist who needs to be taken out . <p> Supporting him is his resourceful boss , Captain Gabi Ayub , and his unit members , including sexy Nurit , Avihai , Yaara Zarhi and others sweet but highly trained men and women who can carry out covert ' n ' overt operations as well as assassinations in enemy territory without much fuss . <p> The overarching story of the series is the bloody fight between Israel and Palestine for land that one set of people believe is theirs legally , but the other claims they have a divine right to it . In this fight , destruction is allowed and inevitable . <p> The series is Israeli , so its political and moral tilt is inevitable . As is the myth creation , which is a continuation from Munich and is all about Israelis ' determination to protect and avenge their own . <p> On the Israeli side we see loyalty , raging testosterone , men and women putting themselves in harm 's way for their nation , while on the Palestinian side we see impoverished colonies , families that have lost their loved ones to The Movement , but also corruption of the Palestinian Authority officials who play both sides , often betraying their own for a favour or a passport . <p> In Israel , everyone is honest and trusting , but in Palestine a strange moral code exists that decided the hierarchy of people and their worth according to their dedication to and sacrifice for The Cause . <p> In this game , suspicion is enough to plant doubt , push men and women off pedestals by bumbling men with inflated egos . This is , perhaps , what does happen to any movement that struggles against a bigger power . <p> Fauda , to be fair , does pay respect to men and women who have sacrificed for The Movement , but the serial stays hyper active always , never finding a moment to even once delve into what is the moral basis for Israel to occupy Palestinian land . <p> Season 3 is set in Gaza , and it involves a wanted man , an undercover agent , an innocent family , an abduction and a new love interest for Doron . <p> It 's very similar to what transpired in the previous two seasons and yet it 's a plotting marvel that despite the sameness of the mission , events , politics , each season one is more compelling than the other . 
@@71899600 <h> From painting to yoga to music : A bird 's eye view of rooftop life under coronavirus lockdown <p> Professional Senegalese wrestler , Moussa Diop ( 24 ) , shadow boxes on his rooftop in Dakar . Usually professional Senegalese wrestlers would train in specialised gyms but due to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus , they now train alone in smaller gyms , in small teams on the beach or at their house . <p> 1/18 <p> Vittoria Oliveri plays tennis with her friend Carola in background on the rooftops of their house in Finale Ligure , Liguria Region , northwestern Italy . Everyday Carola , 11 , and Vittoria , 13 , play tennis from one rooftop to another rooftop of their homes to practice during the outbreak of the global pandemic . <p> 2/18 <p> A man lifts a barbell on the roof top of a residential building as another resident feeds the pigeons in Istanbul 's Kanarya neighbourhood during a weekend curfew imposed by the Turkish government in order to combat the spread of COVID-19 . Feeding pigeons is one of the most popular leisure time activities in Turkey . <p> 3/18 <p> Lebanese Artist Hayat Nazer draws a painting on the roof of her family 's apartment building in the northern coastal city of Tripoli , where she stays confined with her family due to coronavirus crisis . <p> 4/18 <p> A man feeds pigeons on the rooftop of a residential building in Istanbul 's Kanarya neighbourhood during a weekend curfew imposed by the Turkish government amid COVID-19 lockdown across the globe . <p> 5/18 <p> Wael , one of the sons of Palestinian Karate coach Khaled Sheikh Eid , trains on the rooftop of his family house at a refugee camp in Rafah in the Gaza Strip during the coronavirus crisis . <p> 6/18 <p> A man , his wife and their daughter practice physical activities on their building 's shared rooftop terrace in the Prati district of Rome during the total lockdown across the globe , caused by the novel coronavirus . <p> Sherazade Mami , a 28-year-old Tunisian professional dancer and performer at the Caracalla dance theatre and a teacher at the Caracalla dance school , practices while wearing a surgical mask on the rooftop of her apartment building in the suburb of Dekwaneh on the eastern outskirts of Lebanon 's capital Beirut . Due to lockdown restriction , Mami opted to continue practicing on her rooftop to remain in shape . <p> 9/18 <p> Jamal Abu Hammad , a Palestinian barber , who works with his son to provide their services as a delivery , cuts the hair of a man at the client 's rooftop in the city of Hebron in the occupied West Bank . <p> 10/18 <p> Gonzaga Yiga , a 49-year-old community chairperson , appeals to residents through a speaker from the tallest building of the area in morning and evening , on how to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus , in Kampala , Uganda . <p> 11/18 <p> Family members play off-ground touch on a building 's rooftop in Rome , during the nationwide lockdown imposed due to the outbreak of the global pandemic COVID-19 infection . <p> 12/18 <p> Members of contemporary circus company Cirk La Putyka perform on a courtyard rooftop in Prague , Czech Republic during the country-wide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> 13/18 <p> Cuban resident Alejandro Lopez trains martial arts on the rooftop of his home in Havana due to the nationwide lockdown across the country . Since the outbreak of COVID-19 , athletes in Cuba are exercising at home amid lockdown . <p> 14/18 <p> An aerial view shows Simone Lemmers , a 32-year-old Dutch archaeologist , doing yoga on her rooftop while on a break from working at home in the old town of the divided Cypriot capital Nicosia . <p> 15/18 <p> An aerial view of a man exercising on a rooftop terrace in Mexico City during the outbreak of the novel coronavirus . <p> 16/18 <p> Fadia Khalil , a 22-year-old member of the Iraqi National Symphony Orchestra , plays the violin on the roof of her house in the district of Zayounah in Iraq 's capital Baghdad on April 21 , 2020 . <p> 17/18 <p> Zahraa , a 20-year-old student of the Baghdad College of Fine Arts , plays the Qanun string instrument on the roof of her house in the district of Adhamiyah in Iraq 's capital Baghdad . <p> 18/18 <h> About The Gallery <p> Due to the COVID-19 outbreak , people across the globe may have locked themselves at home but many are pursuing their day-to-day activities on roofs of their houses and buildings . From playing tennis to practicing yoga ; from painting to performing music , here 's a look in pictures of how people across the globe are living life on the rooftop under coronavirus lockdown . <p> ( All photos/AFP ) <p> Sign up for all the latest news , top galleries and trending videos from Mid-day.com <p> This website uses cookie or similar technologies , to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations . By continuing to use our website , you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy . OK 
@@71902656 <p> Hague : Dutch Parliament Member Tunahan Kuzu refuses to shake hands with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during his visit to the States General at the Binnenhof as part of Netanyahu 's visit to the Netherlands at the Binnenhof , in the Hague , on September 7 , 2016 <p> Kuzu has justified his actions on Facebook , " the red carpet is rolled out " for Netanyahu while the bloodshed of Gaza had been forgotten , in reference to Israel 's war in in the Gaza Strip two years ago . <p> " While the streets of Gaza were reddened by blood that splashed out of the veins of children in the summer of 2014 , the red carpet is rolled here , " Kuzu wrote . " That deserves no handshake , but a reference to #FreePalestine . " <p> Kuzu was also wearing a badge bearing the Palestinian flag at the time of his encounter with the Israeli leader . 
@@71905083 <h> Israel prepares for next phase of COVID-19 containment <p> For Israel , a country which has approximately 2 million school children , the re-start of the school system is a key factor in boosting the struggling economy . <p> SNS Web New Delhi April 28 , 2020 2:53 pm <p> An Israeli woman wearing mask is seen in the Israeli city of Bat Yam near Tel Aviv ( Photo : IANS ) <p> Israel prepares to further ease lockdown measures almost two months after severe restrictions were imposed on the public and the economy as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> Details of the plan have emerged in recent days , as it appears that the country has been successful in curbing the spread of the virus , according to the reports . <p> Monday was the first day when less than 100 people were diagnosed with the virus . <p> Currently , the death toll in Israel from COVID-19 stands at 202 with under 15,500 diagnosed with the virus . <p> On Wednesday , Israelis will mark Independence Day which will see a temporary intensification in lockdown measures imposed in order to avoid mass gatherings . <p> On Friday , Israel approved the reopening of all street-level businesses to continue gradually lifting restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus and strengthen the country 's economy after the worst phase of the pandemic . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced on Monday that school students until the third grade will return to school on Sunday , under varying restrictions . <p> The Health Ministry has been conducting geographical epidemiological testing and research regarding children 's susceptibility to COVID-19 and how much they spread the virus . <p> " We believe children suffer from a much more mild form of the disease but at the same time are potential spreaders , " said Salmon . <p> The final decision of whether young children will resume schooling will be made at the end of this week , pending updated infection rates . <p> For Israel , a country which has approximately 2 million school children , the re-start of the school system is a key factor in boosting the struggling economy . <p> According to the Bank of Israel , the cost of one week of school closure to the market is $750 million . <p> Cafes and restaurants , which until now could only do home deliveries , will be able to offer takeaway , although clients will not be allowed to sit at tables and eat in the establishments . <p> The Israeli government has taken steps to mitigate the blow , but for now many small businesses have suffered and unemployment rate has skyrocketed to almost 28 per cent , when before the outbreak it was at a record low of less than 4 per cent . <p> Domestic tourism is expected to resume next week , with small hotels being allowed to open . <p> On April 14 , Netanyahu and his main rival Benny Gantz failed to meet a midnight deadline to form an emergency unity government , thus failing to end the ongoing political impasse . <p> For businesses to reopen they must be at street level and adhere to social distancing measures , such as separation barriers between employees and customers , two metres between people , strict hygiene regulations and a limit on the number of people allowed in an establishment . <p> The measures were part of Israel 's plans to gradually recover its economic activity , which has been hugely affected by the pandemic as the country has more than a million unemployed and the economic damage has hit all sectors . <p> During the lockdown , Home Front Command and the Defense Ministry will be responsible for providing residents with a daily supply of food and basic necessities , local services and any other required assistance . <p> According to the earlier data , in the West Bank , 480 cases have been diagnosed so far . Two have died . In Gaza , 17 cases have been diagnosed , eight of which have recovered . 
