@@41880728 <h> Israel links coronavirus aid for Gaza to recovering soldiers <p> 3 Min Read <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - Israel on Wednesday linked any assistance it might offer for the Gaza Strip 's efforts against coronavirus to progress in its attempt to recover two Israeli soldiers lost during the 2014 war in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Blockaded and impoverished , Islamist Hamas-ruled Gaza has reported 12 coronavirus cases and authorities worry that local health facilities - with just 96 ventilators for a population of 2 million - are insufficient to contain a contagion . <p> Both Israel and Hamas have closed the Gaza border to non-essential traffic as a precaution against the spread of the infection . But with Gaza authorities appealing for foreign humanitarian assistance , Israel has been weighing its role . <p> " The moment there is talk of the humanitarian world in Gaza - Israel also has humanitarian needs , which are mainly the recovery of the fallen , " Defence Minister Naftali Bennett told reporters , referring to an infantry officer and conscript who were killed in the 2014 war and their remains kept by Hamas . <p> " And I think that we need to enter a broad dialogue about Gaza 's and our humanitarian needs . It would not be right to disconnect these things ... and certainly , our hearts would be open to many things . " <p> It was not immediately clear if Bennett was speaking of a possible condition on Israel providing direct aid , or also on it enabling the transfer of other aid over its border with Gaza . <p> Palestinian officials on Wednesday said 1,500 coronavirus testing kits would be brought into Gaza , with the help of the World Health Organisation , after they were donated by the Palestinian administration in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . <p> Hamas has never stated whether the two Israeli troopers are dead or alive , but neither has it provided a sign of life , something it did in a previous similar case . <p> Hamas said returning the two soldiers - as well as two Israeli civilians who crossed into the territory - would require negotiating a prisoner swap and would not be done in exchange for humanitarian aid . <p> " Israel bears responsibility for any consequences should the disease spread in Gaza because it has been blockading it for 13 years , " said Hamas spokesman Fawzi Barhoum . <p> " A prisoner swap deal is a separate track , " he said . <p> Israel in the past has freed hundreds of jailed Palestinians , including many militants , in exchange for the single-figure recovery of slain or captive Israelis . <p> Bennett has made clear he would not agree to any further releases of Palestinian militants in the future . <p> Reporting by Dan Williams and Nidal al-Mughrabi ; Writing by Dan Williams , Editing by William Maclean 
@@84484262 <p> Reporting Israeli sources , Safa said that there are several obstacles ahead of forming a unity government as the head of Blue and White ( Kahol Lavan ) is asking for a large number of ministries while the extremist right-wing Yamina party is asking for important ministries . <p> Sources revealed that the number of ministries could be expanded to 34-36 in an effort to meet the demands of every party . <p> Blue and White leader Benny Gantz has said his party must head the defense , foreign and justice ministries . <p> Local reports have warned that differences among the right-wing parties could lead to the dissolution of the alliance and this would increase the number of obstacles ahead of the formation of the government . <p> Head of Israel 's Blue and White party , Benny Gantz became the country 's new Speaker of the Knesset ( Parliament ) on March 26 , as Israel teetered on the brink of a constitutional crisis following the abrupt resignation of former Speaker Yuli Edelstein a day earlier . <p> After his candidacy was announced , Gantz received the support of his political opponents in Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's right-wing bloc , paving the way to a unity government . <h> Related Articles <p> On May 4 , Israel launched a series of deadly airstrikes on the besieged Gaza Strip , prompting a response from various resistance groups . At least 25 Palestinians were killed and nearly 200 people wounded in the Israeli attacks . Four ... <p> Israel 's Supreme Court has banned the leader of a far-right ultranationalist party from running in next month 's elections . Reversing the decisions of Israel 's elections committee earlier this month , the court ruled on Sunday to bar ... <p> The Israeli government announced its recognition of opposition leader Juan Guaid ? as president of Venezuela on Sunday , Arab48 has reported . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a video posted on his official website : " Israel joins the United ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84504672 <p> The reason behind the detention remains unclear and the Israeli police have yet to issue an official statement . <p> In February , Israeli occupation authorities banned Adnan Ghaith from entering the West Bank for six months and from communicating with the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) , despite being the PA 's governor . He was previously arrested by Israeli forces in October 2019 , and then again in November 2019 . <p> Two days after their arrest of the Minister of Jerusalem Affairs , Fadi Al-Hidmi , the Israeli occupying forces today arrested the Governor of Jerusalem , Adnan Ghaith , after storming into his house in Silwan in occupied East #Jerusalem. **44;772;TOOLONG ... Ghaith 's arrest comes two days after Israeli forces arrested Palestine 's Jerusalem Affairs Minister Fadi Al-Hadami on Friday for allegedly violating an Israeli ban on Palestinian political activities in occupied East Jerusalem . The Jerusalem Affairs Ministry said in a statement that Israeli police raided the minister 's house in the Silwan neighborhood of Jerusalem and took him into custody . <p> PLO Executive Committee Hanan Ashrawi accused the Israeli occupation of undermining Palestinian efforts in the battle against coronavirus , referring to the Israeli escalation against Palestinian officials in Jerusalem , including the repeated detention of Jerusalem 's Minister Fadi Al-Hadami . <h> Related Articles <p> Palestinian factions today announced a general strike in the occupied West Bank and besieged Gaza Strip in protest against Bahrain 's hosting of the " Peace to Prosperity " conference . The conference kicked off today in the Bahraini ... <p> A start-up known as " Israel 's most high-profile biometric recognition firm " is playing a key role in monitoring Palestinians at checkpoints in the occupied West Bank , reported Haaretz . According to the article , Anyvision Interactive Technologies " is taking ... <p> Two Palestinians were injured today as Israeli forces attacked dozens of protesters taking part in the weekly anti-settlements protest in the village of Kafr Qaddum , near Qalqilia in the occupied West Bank , according to local ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41893235 <h> From Bamako to Gaza : victims of coronavirus that the world forgot <p> Poorer and crisis-stricken countries likely to suffer far higher death tolls due to coronavirus <p> 7 April 2020 * 7:17am <p> Premium <p> A member of NGO " Team Humanity " shares handmade protective face masks to migrants and refugees in the camp of Moria in the island of Lesbos Credit : AFP <p> They have survived ethnic militias , jihadists and machetes . <p> Now the 1,000 men , women and children sheltering amid clouds of flies and mounds of rubbish in the ' Faladie Garbal refugee camp near the Malian capital of Bamako say their community is being slowly destroyed by coronavirus . <p> " We been told about the disease but we have nothing to protect ourselves against it . No gel , nothing , " said Hama Diallo , the head of the camp . " We all live closely together ... and more people are arriving every day from the war . <p> " People who usually come to give us food are not coming anymore because of the coronavirus . We have nothing to eat and we are afraid to go out and fetch food because the police stop us , " he added . <p> With over 200,000 displaced people , an estimated 1.3 million in dire need of food , and the fastest growing Islamist insurgency on earth , Mali was buckling under a humanitarian crisis even before novel coronavirus arrived last month . <p> But it is only one of dozens of global trouble spots where aid agencies are warning the impact of the coronavirus epidemic could dwarf anything seen in China or Europe . <p> More than 1.2 million people could dies of Covid 19 in Africa and Asia 's poorest countries unless immediate action is taken , 165 serving and former world leaders including Gordon Brown warned on Tuesday . <p> In a letter backed by Save the Children and Oxfam , the former British prime minister called on G20 governments to ditch debt payments and and provide $150 billion in urgent funding to help developing countries cope with the public health and economic fallout of the pandemic . <p> Particularly alarming are the world 's active conflict zones . <p> " We are seeing how this Covid pandemic is playing out in advanced countries with sophisticated health systems that are totally overrun . Now think about that happening in Somalia , or Syria , or Yemen , where the health infrastructure has been destroyed , " said Robert Mardini , Director General of the International Committee of the Red Cross . <p> " The only thing we can do now , and we are doing as much as possible , is to work on the prevention side . Because if it reaches the point it has elsewhere , it would be a catastrophe . " <p> A municipal worker sprays disinfectant on migrant workers before they board a bus to return to their villages , during a 21-day nationwide lockdown to slow the spread of coronavirus disease Credit : Reuters <p> It is already clear that poorer countries which can not afford the measures rich countries in East Asia , Europe , and North America have adopted to save lives - rapidly expanding and retooling health systems and shutting down sections of the economy - are likely to suffer higher death tolls and greater economic shock from the global coronavirus crisis . <p> Add in hospitals destroyed in bombing campaigns , supply-chains wrecked by the threat of attack , and thousands of people living in tightly packed , often squalid refugee camps , and the chances of " flattening the curve " fade to nothing . <p> The implications are so alarming Antonio Guterres , the United Nations Secretary General has made an extraordinary appeal for a global " Covid-19 " ceasefire in all war zones to allow everyone to focus on defeating the pandemic . <p> So far , few are heeding the secretary general 's call for sanity . <p> The UN said in a statement on Friday that fighting has increased in Afghanistan in recent weeks despite peace talks earlier in the year . Global health experts believe a largely unmonitored coronavirus pandemic , borne by refugees returning from neighbouring Iran , is already underway in the country . <p> In Libya , fighting between the UN-recognised government and General Khalifa Haftar 's Libyan National Army has escalated rapidly since the country 's first coronavirus cases were reported late last month , despite both sides promising to respect a " humanitarian pause . " <p> Meanwhile a fresh conflict between US forces and Iranian-backed militia is threatening to break out in Iraq , where official figures stood at 772 confirmed covid-19 infections and 56 deaths on Friday . <p> Aid agencies , conscious of the disaster uncontrolled outbreaks could cause , are concentrating on trying to prevent coronavirus breaking into refugee camps , migrant detention centres , and prisons . <p> In Cox 's Bazar , Bangladesh , the UNHCR has been scrambling to set up rudimentary isolation units and extra handwashing facilities in a bid to prevent the virus getting into the overcrowded camps that house more than 800,000 Rohingya refugees who fled a genocide campaign in Myanmar in 2017 . Their current goal is to get just ten intensive care beds up and running . <p> In northeast Syria , The Red Cross has attempted to set up quarantine measures at the already overburdened hospital in the al-Hol detention camp , which houses tens of thousands of displaced people and where malnutrition and other diseases are already rife . <p> Indian people rest in a shelter for migrants set up by the Delhi government to provide shelter for migrant workers , amid lockdown , in New Delhi Credit : Shutterstock <p> In many places , however , the virus has already arrived . <p> In Gaza , at least 12 people have already been infected with the coronavirus according to Hamas , the Islamist terror group in control of the territory . It will almost certainly spread rapidly through the extremely dense population of two million people , and many inhabitants are only too well aware that the fragile healthcare system will likely be overwhelmed . <p> " The world is not only not paying attention to Gaza , it is not paying attention to anything except the virus , " said Fadia Nassar , a 37-year-old mother . " This means everyone of us must take utmost care and not wait for others or the world to tell us what to do and what not to do . To be honest , I ca n't blame the world in such conditions . " <p> Other refugees , like Mr Diallo in Mali , have received little more than well-meaning but next to useless advice . <p> " They told us to wash your hands with soap and eat good things to be safe from corona , " said Gul Mir , a 46-year-old living in a make-shift refugee camp on the outskirts of the Afghan city of Herat . <p> " But we do n't even have water to drink , let alone washing our hands with water and soap . The price of everything skyrocketed due to corona and this quarantine , most of the refugees here who had good conditions are now near to begging . " <p> His sons used to scrape a living of ? 1 to ? 1.50 a day trawling for rubbish , but have seen even that precarious source of income cut off after authorities imposed a curfew to fight coronavirus infections . <p> Like Mr Diallo 's community in Mali , they are living a more brutal iteration of a cruel dilemma facing millions of people in poorer countries around the globe : to protect themselves from coronavirus , or starve . <p> As Imran Khan , the prime minister of Pakistan , summed up in a televised address to the nation on March 17 : " If we shutdown the cities - people are already facing difficult circumstances - we will save them from corona at one end , but they will die from hunger on the other side . " <p> Homeless people stay at the Caledonian stadium downtown Pretoria , South Africa Credit : AP <p> Pakistan 's Ministry of Planning has estimated that 12.3 million to 18.5 million people in the country will lose their jobs as a result of the coronavirus shock , and in provinces that have implemented shutdowns , the pain is already being felt . <p> Abdul Rauf , a 43-year-old resident of Karachi 's North Nazimabad neighbourhood , who usually makes ? 5 a day as a house painter , told the Telegraph he had not had a day 's work for a fortnight . <p> Across the border in India , Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the other path , announcing a three-week shutdown on March 25 in an attempt to protect the underfunded and understaffed healthcare system of the world 's second most populous state . <p> But ninety percent of Indians work in the informal sector , typically without contracts or monthly salaries , and many were left facing starvation overnight . Millions of internal migrant workers and left their rented homes in urban areas to walk hundreds of kilometres to ancestral villages . <p> The upshot was the biggest mass migration since partition in 1947 and a humanitarian crisis on top of the existing health one . <p> " The whole thing is completely medieval , " said Manish Tewari , an MP for the Congress party and a former minister for Information and Broadcasting . " You have millions of poor , marginalised , displaced on the march and the government has left them to their own fate . " <p> The entire shock of quarantine has been compounded by the knock on effects of shutdowns in rich countries in East Asia and Europe . <p> In Cambodia , one of several South East Asian economies that had repurposed as the workshop of the globalised clothing trade , at least 91 garment factories employing 61,500 workers have already suspended work due to quarantine restrictions and a collapse in global demand , a spokesman for the labour ministry said on Wednesday . <p> The shuttered factories account for almost a sixth of Cambodia 's $7 billion garment and footwear industry , which supplies such global brands as H&amp;M , Adidas , PUMA and Levi Strauss and is the country 's largest employer , with about 850,000 workers . Trade unions across the region have called on multinational brands to honour contracts . <p> And just as national governments are left with few good options , nor is there any no obvious way for international institutions to respond . <p> Migrants and refugees carry bags with food as they walk past piles of garbage at a makeshift camp next to the Moria camp on the Greek island of Lesbos Credit : AFP <p> The UNHCR and the ICRC have both launched emergency appeals for funding for trouble spots , though with rich donor nations struggling to contain their own epidemics and the global economy headed for recession , the pool of funding available for aid is likely to contract dramatically . <p> Meanwhile , international financial institutions are looking at emergency funding for both middle income and low income countries , but they will also ultimately rely on the generosity of major shareholders . <p> One possible option would be debt relief . Daniel Munevar , a former UN economist with the European Network on Debt and Development , a Brussels-based NGO , estimates 45 of the world 's poorest countries will require at least US$ 93.8 billion in assistance from the World Bank or IMF to face the crisis until the end of 2020 . <p> Without a suspension of external debt payments , US$ 21.8 billion of that would be diverted away from COVID-19 response efforts towards creditors , he said . <p> Doing nothing , however , is not an option . <p> " If you think you can lock down 1.2 billion people , think they do not exist , and that it is not going to come back and haunt you , then I have a story to tell you about Syria , " said Mr Munevar . <p> Reporting by Will Brown , Joe Wallen in Delhi , Ben Farmer in Islamabad , James Rothwell in Jerusalem , and Nicola Smith in Taipei 
@@84526390 <p> Luis Eduardo Aute passed away in Madrid at the age of 76 . ( Photo : Album cover ) <p> Famous Spanish singer , songwriter and long-time Palestine supporter , Luis Eduardo Aute , passed away in Madrid on Saturday , April 4 , at the age of 76 . <p> Aute was known for his songs celebrating beauty and love , but especially his courageous stances against injustice and the brutal war on democracy that victimized millions of people during the Franco regime between 1939 and 1975 . He became particularly well-known during the political transition that took Spain from dictatorship to democracy . <p> Aute was also known for his support of the Palestinian cause . Along with other singers , he sang for Palestinian freedom , at Rumbo a Gaza , the Spanish equivalent of the global Freedom Flotilla campaign . <p> " It 's a great loss for Spain , but also for the Palestinian people , " said Palestinian journalist and editor of The Palestine Chronicle Ramzy Baroud . <p> " Incredible artists like Aute reminded us that we are not alone in our fight against injustice and that our struggle for freedom and human rights is a global struggle as well , " Baroud added . <p> " Aute will always be with us , because his melodies of love , beauty and freedom will continue to resonate among all freedom and justice-loving people in Palestine and throughout the world . " <h> Related Articles <p> Highly-acclaimed food critic and travel writer Anthony Bourdain has died aged 61 , ending a lifetime devoted to food and promoting cuisines from across the world , including those from the Middle East . Deeply saddened by tragic ... <p> A photo of young Israelis sitting atop a watchtower at the Gaza border and cheering as Israeli forces fired at Palestinian protesters has generated outrage on social media this weekend . Israeli Channel 2 journalist Nir ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41904735 <h> This One Direction interview got us death threats <p> One Direction are the biggest pop stars on the planet and the faces of a 100m commercial empire . They are also the focus of millions of teenage girls ' fevered fantasies , a fact we learnt first-hand when we began to receive death threats from fans after our interview below was published . Here re-read one of the most controversial cover stories GQ has ever had ... <p> There will be a short vignette somewhere amid all the smooth hairless torsos , hot white grins and hair product of One Direction 's new ? feature-length documentary , This Is Us , wherein the film-makers ask a certified doctor to explain precisely what happens ? physically to a teenage girl 's body when she listens to a One Direction song . It 's something the director of the film , Morgan Spurlock ( Super Size Me ; Where In The World Is Osama Bin Laden ? ) , has always been keen to capture on camera , though that is n't to say he 's more than a little concerned about convincing a medical ? professional to go on record about such a potentially taboo- ? shattering " scientific " experiment . " It 's more than likely , " he tells GQ , ? laughing his head off , " that I 'll have to source my legit doctor from Europe rather than the States . Somewhere a little more progressive ! " <p> Although such an experiment is no doubt titillating for the audience , at the time of interviewing Spurlock , I wondered whether it was absolutely necessary . After all , by now we all know the immense transformative power of a boy band to turn a butter-wouldn't-melt teenage girl into a rabid , knicker-wetting banshee who will tear off her own ears in hysterical fervour when presented with the objects of her fascinations . Has n't this spectacle of the natural world - like the aurora borealis or the migration of wild bison across America 's Great Plains - been acknowledged ? It was Keith Richards , after all , who testified in the documentary Crossfire Hurricane to " rivers running down the aisles " while playing those first Rolling Stones gigs way back in 1963 . Women like seeing men parade around on stage to music - we get it . <p> They have bought houses , property , they 've invested in gold . They are all being smart ( Film-maker Morgan Spurlock ) <p> Well , try telling that to the women sitting in GQ 's immediate vicinity on Row J , Block 112 at the O2 Arena , only two minutes after One Direction have bounded onto the stage , all big waves and jeans that appear to be at once both skinny and baggy . <p> These women do n't care about the Rolling Stones . They do n't care about the meta-modernist cycle of cultural repetition . They do n't care about history . All these female fans care about is their immediate vociferous reverence : the beatification of St Harry , St Zayn , St Niall , St Louis and St Liam . <p> Inside the venue a hormone bomb has gone off : 20,000 females all turning themselves inside out , some almost literally , to the sight of Harry Styles , Niall Horan , Zayn Malik , Louis Tomlinson and Liam Payne . GQ 's overriding feeling ( as a 34-year-old man in a Burberry biker jacket with a notepad and pen ) is one of hapless isolation , marooned between a 20-year-old mother of three girls to my left and five screaming teenagers all aged between 15 and 17 to my right . I am an interloper trapped within Harry Styles ' very own Lynx advert - I 'm scared , bewildered and ever so slightly deaf . <p> Ever since this boy band were forged in the black dystopian kilns of The X Factor by music mogul Simon Cowell in 2010 , the five boys , now five men , have gone on to become bigger than even their creator could have dared dream . Starbucks , Coca-Cola , Facebook , One Direction . They were the first band to break globally through social media - now with more than 13 million followers on Twitter , and that 's not even tallying the members ' own individual ? handles . In March 2012 , 1D 's debut album topped the Billboard charts . No UK act had ever done this before . Not the Beatles nor the Stones , not Coldplay nor Mumford &amp; Sons . And they continue apace : 19 million singles sold , ten million copies of their two albums - Up All Night ( 2011 ) ; Take Me Home ( 2012 ) - with a feature film out this month and a third album being recorded , the business empire fronted by these cherubic faces now stretches well into the hundreds of millions of pounds , with licensing deals that include everything from lunchboxes to their own fragrances . Their ambition , or at least their management 's ambition , is seemingly infinite . <p> Tonight , the multi-tiered circular arena - the entirety of which is being filmed in 3-D as part of Spurlock 's ambitious project - is brighter than usual , so the six colossal F65 cameras are able to capture every tear , every flushed crimson cheek , every homemade ( and often ? fantastically rude ) poster . For GQ , the extra illumination only serves to spotlight the astonishing scenes : an ocean of 20,000 wide-open mouths , hundreds of pleading white eyes , 40,000 palms raised skywards , a dark-pink oil slick that howls and moans and undulates with every impish crotch-thrust from their idols ' plinths . Thousands of female fans caught on the cusp of their own sexual awakening , a band beckoning them on with lyrics such as , " I want to stay up all night/And do it all with you " , and GQ caught slap-bang in the middle like a substitute teacher at the annual school disco . <p> Forty minutes in , I make a break for the exit . Spurlock 's advice echoes and bounces off the endless rows of merchandise stalls and nacho stands : " Best thing about a One Direction concert for us guys ? No rest-room queues . " Out in the foyer is a man , mid-forties , a lone father I suspect , nursing a numbing pint just behind one of the venue 's giant structural pillars . He takes a long drag on his electronic cigarette and nods empathetically . The long escalator takes me down and out and into the sharp night air . Behind me I hear the shrill sonic boom of a whole generation of women coming of age . <p> An hour earlier and I 'm waiting for the band to arrive at the venue . The room I 've been ushered into - down a warren of back passages and through more security ? checks than the Gaza Strip - can be found directly ? behind the main dressing rooms , about 50 yards behind the stage . To get into the room , named the FAB Room , you have to walk through a wardrobe - yes , just like in the books . <p> Thanks to some creative sort in charge of artist hospitality , Narnia has been relocated from the novels of CS Lewis and can now be found somewhere within the concreted walls of Britain 's Second Biggest Live Indoor Music Venue , a phantasmagorical literary portal now made real and sponsored by a mobile-phone conglomerate . The room is as gaudy as you 'd expect from an " entertainment suite " : purple sofas , a bar that serves jellybeans rather than Jim Beam , and row upon row of trompe l'oeil vinyl " records " that line the walls like the fake anthropological relics of a forgotten world . Presumably poor Mr Tumnus will be in at any moment to serve us Frappuccinos . <p> The rules of The Interview were crystal clear long before my arrival in Fake Disco Narnia : two 15-minute slots , with the five band members split into two separate groups - Liam and Niall , followed by Louis , Zayn and Harry . An application for a proper , grown-up chat with each of the boys was vetoed by their scrupulously efficient PR man : " No time . " As I know the dangers of interviewing band members together - their cubbish jovial inter-band mumbling always cloaking any sort of straight answer - I suggest I interview each of the members for six minutes alone . No ball . Which makes any journalist wonder whether the talent has something to hide or , in fact , nothing to give . Aside from the time restrictions , there were two other cast-iron " no-go areas " : " In terms of parameters for the interview , Taylor Swift is off limits for Harry . And Zayn will not discuss the story from earlier this year alleging he had cheated . " <p> We just go with what we have and who we are . Just be people . I do n't want to live up to how people expect me to be ( Niall Horan ) <p> Liam Payne , and Niall Horan , both 19 , skip like two Slinkies in sportswear . They are almost intolerably bouncy ; all the baggy , soft , cotton leisurewear making them appear like a couple of animated cartoon humans which have escaped a Pixar movie . They are , of course , politeness personified and at first seem blissfully unaware of their intergalactic fame or , indeed , the impact their words can have beyond these four heinously decorated walls . " I 've come to a point now where I just go wherever people tell me to go , " begins Liam , coolly . " That 's what life is like . People say , ' Go here , ' and I oblige . " The singer , who it has been said can be prone to a bit of a grumble , then adds with an agreeable dollop of West Midlands nonchalance : " So long as you tell me what object to aim towards , I 'll just keep moving . " <p> After their six-night stint at the O2 , ending tomorrow night , the band will go on to export their good-looking pop-rock extravaganza to Europe , the US , Australia and New Zealand - an eight-month , 128-date arena tour that will take in everywhere from Berlin to Brisbane . <p> Liam : I actually do n't . I think all our fans are just on another level of crazy . Unstoppable . <p> Niall : They are nuts . Mostly all I see is a sea of screaming faces . It 's brilliant , especially in South America ; there 's a whole carnival vibe outside the gigs . <p> GQ : Tell me about the new album . <p> Niall : We do n't actually have a specific date for the new album , but on the road we will have more time to record and try things out . It 'll be a bit heavier . A bit rockier . A bit cooler . <p> Liam : Consider this a warning : this is a new sound . <p> GQ : Is this a step away from your wholesome , teeny-bop image ? <p> Niall : We 're pretty honest . We 're just five guys having the time of our lives . <p> Liam : I think in the industry we 're in and the type of audience we have , we 're never going to escape the idea of being young . Which I do n't mind myself . I mean , who wants to grow up anyway ? I do n't want to grow up . I remember when I watched this documentary when I was a kid about Donny Osmond and I think it got to him a little bit , always having to be clean-cut and the nice guy . Maybe it 'll happen to us . Although we get away with far too much , so why would we want it to stop ? <p> Niall : We just go with what we have and who we are . Just be people . I do n't want to live up to how people expect me to be . <p> GQ : Groupies and booze : what are your tour-bus rules ? <p> Niall : We have n't been on the road long enough yet - ask me in a few months ' time . All last year , we were touring in America so we were all under age , so we could n't really party then , anyway . <p> Liam : Groupies ? We do n't have time to party ! I 'm not even single . This sort of talk will get me in trouble . <p> Niall : We go back on the road straight after a show and we 're gone . I wish we did have time for girls and parties but we do n't . Liam : Maybe we need someone to schedule that in for us . <p> Niall : I 'll say one thing : Ellie Goulding - wow . <p> She 's absolutely amazing looking . I met her at the Brits . <p> Liam : Put it right out there , Niall . <p> Niall : Well , you 've got to , have n't you . I mean , she has a boyfriend , but what the hell . <p> GQ : Which song do you wish you 'd written ? <p> Niall : " Hotel California " by the Eagles . <p> Liam : " 99 Problems " by Jay-Z . <p> The way One Direction write songs , or more accurately the way One Direction build hits , is how most manufactured pop acts build hits . And it is n't meant as a criticism ; teenage girls and grown men alike are a long way past being ignorant about how our pop songs get onto the radio - if it 's a hit , it 's a hit . It 's one thing if you learn H from Steps has been writing lyrics for Alex Turner , but if I told you Rihanna 's " Umbrella " was written by a smorgasbord of writers including a producer called The-Dream , Christopher Stewart and Kuk Harrell , would that taint your listening experience next time you were getting your swag on to RiRi in the car or in a club ? <p> Pop acts have forever had big , epic songs delivered to them , and for 1D this is n't the problem . Neither is genuine talent . All five members can , in fact , hold a pretty decent vocal ; the televised A&amp;R experience that is The X Factor ensures all artists off the conveyor belt come with fully authenticated voice boxes . No , the problem now seemingly for One Direction , the huge tuneless white elephant in the room , is that they 've never really had any proper big hits . Yes , they 've sold a lot of high-energy pop-rock records to tweens who would just as easily bop about to the sound of Peppa Pig sitting on a giant pink keyboard , but if they want this third record to take them into the realms of long-lasting , legitimate , market-bridging , gold-plated pop then they 're going to need some tunes . And fast . The ticking clock is n't so much about the record industry - 1D exist within their own self-sufficiently successful microcosm - as about the age of their fans . The older their fans get , the more One Direction 's legacy will become about the music . <p> The type of girls that would sleep with you in a heartbeat are n't the type of girls I 'd want to take home anyway ( Louis Tomlinson ) <p> It 's the music that Harry Magee - one half of Modest ! <p> Management , the business brains behind the band - knows will keep this band from disintegrating while entering through adulthood 's problem-prone atmosphere . " The scale of this band is unprecedented . <p> None of us involved in the band , from the management , to the agents , to the licensees , to retailers , have ever worked on anything this big before . There might be huge acts that have been going longer than 25 years but they are not nearly as broad as One Direction , especially when it comes to selling tickets and selling merchandise . In the US last summer , we broke the merchandise record in every single venue we played at - same for Europe . Whether it 's the Backstreet Boys , Justin Bieber , Michael Jackson or a rock band like Metallica , or Live Aid , in terms of per-head numbers for merchandise we have broken all the numbers . We need more stands at the gigs . More people serving . " But you have to underpin all this with good music . Listen , I would be very surprised if any of them went solo . We have an 18-month to two-year plan and all the members have signed up for this . But you need to keep it fresh . The band have not had that many big radio hits . Their debut single ' What Makes You Beautiful ' is a classic pop record with a really good lyric that resonates with teenage girls , but since then , the music has admittedly not always been the driving thing . We strive for that . We need to keep having hits . And you hope that when you have a hit it goes beyond your original fanbase . This is also what the band want . Their primary interest in One Direction is getting the right songs and making the right record . " <p> It may come as a surprise - or not - that McGee ensures he never attends a One Direction gig without one essential piece of equipment : " Earplugs ! Well , you 've got to have n't you ? It 's just too loud ... " " We started writing and recording in January , " explains Julian Bunetta , a 30-year-old LA-based producer and songwriter who has been working with One Direction on and off for two years . " We knew the new record would take time , partly because of what we wanted to accomplish and partly because the band are making a feature film and on a world arena tour , so the only time they 're going to have is the evening , the early hours . These boys are very busy . " <p> So how do five young pop artists , most of whom have had no professional songwriting experience , go about writing a smash-hit single to compete with the likes of Lady Gaga or Daft Punk ? " It happens a lot of different ways . We spend a lot of time around the band , soaking up the conversation . Then one guy might have an idea for a riff or a melody they recorded on their phones . <p> Sometimes it 's really quick , sometimes - like last time in London - it can take two days before anyone agrees on what we want a song to say . " What are the band like in the studio ? <p> " I 've only written with three of them so far - Louis , Liam and Harry . Harry likes to just freestyle a lot - you give him some chord and he 'll just come out with some crazy improv stuff . Louis takes a more executive role . Almost a producer role . Niall , as everyone knows , can play guitar . And Liam the other day started playing bass on one of the new records . " But Bunetta is emphatic about one thing : " What they do n't do is use Auto-Tune . " <p> So , the band has the talent plus the industry framework behind them - what 's the big hold-up ? " They need to accurately represent who they are in real life . And for the songs to be more about them . <p> They have an audience and they have that audience 's ears for now . <p> They need to evolve the sound and to also take some risks . The boys want to be honest about their age and their situation as young men . <p> They are n't the naive , clean-cut guys next door any more - they 're rock stars and this new record will reflect that . They are travelling the world , having new experiences and playing for hundred of thousands of people . But as well as the insane highs , you get the lows . They 'll be away from home and they 'll be getting really f***ing lonely . And maybe they still need to meet a girl who is going to love them for who they really are . These are real , tangible things and situations they are going through , that everyone can relate to - not just the female fans . It 's these things that cut to the core of being a human . " <p> Harry Styles wears , presently , One Direction 's only pair of visible cojones . The rest of them might as well be eunuchs . He is the band 's libido : their inner mojo made physical - and with great hair . If Julian Bunetta feels that what this band needs more of is a human face - real and tangible and , perhaps more importantly , readable - then Harry Styles is the only one who currently delivers outside of the world of tween girls . Fact . He 's the youngest member of the group - just as Robbie Williams was in Take That - and just like Williams , he seems to be the most willing to just go out and enjoy himself , minder or no minder , pop band or no pop band . He 's their rock star . The cool kid . The one who goes out all night with urban aesthetes such as Kate Moss , Jamie Hince , Rita Ora , Cara Delevingne and Nick Grimshaw , the Radio 1 breakfast host who has scarified one million listeners in order to make the station cool again . According to one source very close to Grimshaw , speaking to <p> GQ , the ingratiating of Styles into such a usually impenetrable London clique is , in fact , solely through the 28-year-old radio host . Grimshaw is Styles ' enabler so far as cool London is concerned , and for a period they seemed inseparable , swapping clothes or staying out all night together. ? At times , rumours circulated that the pair were indeed more than just close friends . It 's all credit to Styles , really , that such a relationship seemed perfectly credible . <p> It 's also well known , however , that Styles is fond of a female companion . He 's like Russell Brand , just minus the needy braggadocio . From one of Rod Stewart 's daughters , and TV host Caroline Flack to ( whisper it ) Taylor Swift and one of the blondes off Made In Chelsea ( really , Harry ? ) , Styles seems to be , quite frankly , working his way through his fair share of pretty young things . And why not ? As Styles himself so famously whispered to X Factor winner Matt Cardle live on ITV in front of 19.4 million viewers , when you 're a pop star , " just think of how much pussy you 're going to get " . Styles is also the only band member you feel has the natural charisma to go it alone with a solo career . For magnetism , he ca n't be matched . <p> We 're never going to escape the idea of being young . <p> Which I do n't mind myself . I mean , who wants to grow up anyway ? ( Liam Payne ) <p> What else do we know about Harry Styles ? " Harry has plenty of money , " explains Morgan Spurlock , who has spent the best part of a year on the road with the band . " They have bought houses , property , they 've invested in gold . They are all being smart with their money . It 's not like they 're driving around in Lamborghinis . But they are low-key . Harry is currently staying in a friend 's attic . <p> He 's got a house that 's being renovated and so he 's living with Ben <p> Winston , who is also a producer on our film . Ben and Harry have been friends for a long time . These guys like having familiar faces around them - their extended family , people they can trust . The other day , I went over to Ben 's house and crept upstairs to film Harry waking up . There 's this moment when he 's all sleepy and in bed rolling around in the covers pretty much naked . All I could hear in my head was 18 million girls screaming . " <p> Harry has also invested in art . A London art dealer who was recently involved in some of Styles ' acquisitions , preferring to remain anonymous , told GQ : " He bought a sculpture by Polly Morgan - she 's the taxidermist artist who was on the fringes of the YBA but did n't quite make it . She 's popular with pop stars , fashion folk Kate Moss , so not a surprising buy . Her work tends to be low five figures so around ? 10,000 to ? 20,000 . Quite gothic/post-pop , so stuffed animals , skulls ... Harry also bought a couple of sculptures by Ben Turnbull : Jesus wearing boxing gloves , and also a Ben Turnbull sculpture of a small gun behind glass . He also bought some Turnbull prints . Again , quite poptastic art with a frisson of darkness , and again the sculpture would be around ? 10,000 upwards , with prints cheaper . So not bad purchases for a young collector . On the plus point , it 's impressive he 's buying sculpture , because most younger collectors tend to go for painting ; his taste seems rooted in contemporary takes on pop art , and he likes a little bit of controversy or gothic in there . " <p> It comes as no surprise that Styles is , of course , fiercely protected by the 1D team . And as I 'm waiting to meet the three remaining members , I get the distinct impression that the whole group-interview scenario is more for Styles ' benefit than anyone else . Of course , the gods have a punchy way to deliver happenstance . And this morning , for GQ at least , it comes in the form of a road-traffic accident inside the Blackwall Tunnel , the main traffic artery from inner London to the O2 . This means that although Harry made it through , the other two , Louis and Zayn , are held up . Harry is , at least for a glimmer , all by himself , alone . <p> GQ : Does this job get any easier ? <p> Harry : I do n't think it 's easy at all . The fear of it has turned into adrenaline . Definitely the first few shows you 're scared as that 's when all the mistakes happen . And then once you get your bearings and you know what you 're doing you can enjoy it more . Every show is different so you ca n't entirely relax , although sometimes I do wonder what I 'll be having for tea that night . I try to remain focused . <p> Harry : Some of them are funny . Some of them are ridiculous . Some of them are annoying . I do n't want to be one of those people that complains about the rumours . I never like it when a celebrity goes on Twitter and says , " This is n't true ! " It is what it is , I tend not to do that . The only time it gets really annoying is that if you get into a relationship and you get into a place where you really like someone and then things are being written in the papers that affect them and how they see you . Then it can get annoying . <p> Harry : No . I 'm not a big drinker , really I 'm not . I do n't go home and open a beer or have a glass of wine to relax , I 'm just not that sort of person . I 'll drink if I go out with friends and if I 've got the day off , yeah , I 'll go out . I do n't like alcohol enough . <p> GQ : Are you getting more used to being this famous ? <p> Harry : I do n't think you can ever get used to being this famous . I 've learnt how to keep things separate or at a distance . <p> I 've nothing to hide . But seeing this as work , like a job , means I can take a step back . It 's me right now in front of you and in the papers but it 's not all of me . If you give yourself entirely to the business , you 'd end up going mad . And I 'm not mad . Not yet . <p> GQ : Do you know how many people you 've slept with ? <p> Harry : I know the number of people I 've slept with , yes . <p> GQ : What is that number ? <p> Harry : I 'm definitely not telling you ! <p> GQ : Can you give me a rough , ballpark figure ? <p> Harry : No ! <p> GQ : Say " yes " or " no " . Less than 100 ? <p> Harry : No ! <p> GQ : So higher than 100 ? <p> Harry : No , it 's definitely less than 100 ... <p> GQ : Lower than 50 ? <p> Harry : Yes , lower than 50 . <p> bGQ : Lower than 30 ? <p> Harry : I 'm not doing this ! You 're cornering me ! <p> GQ : Come on you 're a rock star . OK , less than ten . <p> Harry : Yes . Two people . I 've only ever had sex with two people . <p> GQ : I do n't believe you . <p> Harry : Well , that 's my answer . Read from it what you will ! <p> At this point , Zayn and Louis walk in . Which is a pity , as Harry is just getting into his stride . He 's confident and can handle himself well . He 's charming , funny and you can see why the girls ( and boys ) swoon . If One Direction have ambitions to broaden their audience they are going to have to learn to reveal a little more of themselves - or be allowed to . With the other two in the room the talk reverts back to " band issues " . <p> What do they think of the likes of Noel Gallagher telling them their music can " f*** off " ? " At the end of the day you kind of want Noel Gallagher to be a knob , " replies Louis , the oldest in the group , now 21 . " You expect him to be a knob . That 's cool in a way . He says shit like that but that 's definitely what we would expect from someone like him . <p> Harry adds with a wry smile : " It 's easy to have a pop at the kids from X Factor . Thing is , his kids are coming to our show on Saturday ... " <p> I go on to ask Zayn about his Muslim upbringing . He shuts me down ? immediately : " I do n't like talking about my religion . " Why not ? " I just do n't like talking about it . " Fair enough . Back to the pop questions , then . <p> For those with girlfriends , is it hard to remain monogamous while on tour ? <p> Louis : " I do n't think it is . The type of girls that would sleep with you in a heartbeat are n't the type of girls I 'd want to take home anyway . " Meanwhile , Harry , together with his big , visible cojones , has long left Narnia . <p> GQ : How will One Direction be remembered ? <p> Zayn : I want a monument put up in Bradford ! They will build statues of us . No , I want to change pop culture ... <p> Louis : As a boy band that did n't dance . <p> Niall : It would be great to just be remembered . <p> Liam : It was nice to win a Brit . What was it for again ? <p> Niall : You know when the Backstreet Boys and New Kids On The Block came back a few months ago ? And all they did were arena tours . That 's how I 'd like to be remembered . 
@@84573338 <p> According to the Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network Samidoun , " every year , around 700 Palestinian children are brought before Israeli military courts after being arrested , detained and interrogated . The vast majority report some form of torture and abuse , including kicking and beating in military jeeps as well as psychological torture during interrogation , including threats to arrest family members . " <p> 185 children are currently held in Israeli prisons , according to Addameer . <h> Related Articles <p> A Palestinian teenage boy succumbed , early Monday morning , to wounds he sustained by Israeli forces during protests alongside the eastern borders of the besieged Gaza Strip on Friday . The Palestinian Ministry of Health confirmed that ... <p> British voters are at the polls as the Tories , led by Boris Johnson , and the Labours , led by Jeremy Corbyn , each seeks a majority . Corbyn is a long-time supporter of the Palestinian people 's struggle against ... <p> Israeli forces and officials visited the Palestinian community of Khan Al-Ahmar in the central West Bank yesterday , in preparation for the expulsion of the village 's residents . Preparations for a war crime : Israeli authorities arrived this ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41908724 <p> " In this part of the world , unfortunately , everything that you touch or say , it turns into politics , " says Jerusalem-born chef Sami Tamimi of his homeland - and that very much includes the origin of hummus . <p> But , adds Tara Wigley , his British-born co-author ( both are long-term members of the Ottolenghi brand and family - Tamimi co-wrote Jerusalem , Yotam Ottolenghi 's ground-breaking debut cookery book , to which Falastin is a companion piece ) , an in-depth knowledge of Israeli-Palestinian relations is not vital to pick up the book and start cooking . Instead , " people who are interested in food - beautiful aubergines and olive oils - should be reading this . " <p> She calls Falastin a " window through which to see modern day Palestine " but notes that she and Tamimi also " want people to read it and think about something other than the politics . It 's everything and it 's both - there 's never a simple answer . " <p> The collection is strewn with profiles that tell stories of Palestinian producers and makers , from a granny making cheese in a tumble dryer , to a woman who runs cookery classes in a refugee camp , and a man who sells the nuttiest , silkiest tahini . <p> " Everyone 's got this strong picture in their head of what living in a refugee camp means , or what Gaza means , and actually we want people to read our book and see that life goes on and people are making a living and doing interesting stuff with food , " says Wigley . " There 's a world there and a life that we want people to explore and go to , eat from and celebrate . " <p> Palestinians , says Tamimi , are very aware that tourists take " religious buses to go and visit the holy sites , but they 're not eating or stopping there . <p> " They never see the real life , " he says . " You 're whisked in , whisked out and then you end up in the very touristy shop - and that 's it . You do n't see anything . " <p> As such , " all the good food 's happening in people 's houses , " says Wigley - and between the profiles and the recipes in Falastin , they 're hoping to bridge that gap , by introducing people to Palestinian food and flavours , while showcasing all the glorious things real Palestinians are doing on a daily basis . Hence why you need two copies : " One to read , one to cook from , " says Wigley with a grin . " Unless you like cooking stains in bed , " chips in Tamimi , smiling . " I do n't mind . " <p> Mainly though , " it about getting everyone to the table and sharing and eating rather than falling over themselves with semantics , " says Wigley . <p> Like much of the food of the Levant , Palestinian fare " tastes wonderful " but , admits Tamimi , is " very earthy , a little bit brown and beige , " . So while Ottolenghi was n't involved directly in the book , a little Ottolenghi flair " to make everything colourful and appetising with garnish and herbs , colour " was inevitable . <p> " When you end up with just a brown thing , " muses Tamimi , " you do n't want to even serve it . " <p> " There 's just no way we could serve a salad unless it was beautiful and bountiful and bold , " agrees Wigley . <p> The duo have known each other for around a decade . " I spent a couple of days in the kitchen with Sami and I remember hearing him phoning Yotam , going , ' Who is this girl ? Where has she come from ? She is not a professional chef ' , " recalls Wigley mischievously . " The first time I tried preserved lemon around Sami , I just thought it tasted disgusting , like soap . He was like , ' She does n't even like preserved lemon , who is she ? ' <p> " Little did I know that was the beginning of my culinary epiphany . " <p> Working on Falastin together did , she notes , seem a " possibly incongruous fit " at first because " I ai n't Palestinian " . But their combined , yet different perspectives , she says , make it work : Wigley , the home cook who is still discovering Palestinian cuisine , and Tamimi the professional chef , who is " rooted in Palestine . The book 's such a love letter home to him , looking back to this country that he left . " It 's a " tussle " notes Wigley , but one that 's " useful " for the reader . <p> And yes , they have been known to argue - " lots ! We had rows and tears . But we had fun , " admits Tamimi . <p> " We 've got very different dispositions , " explains Wigley . " I 'm running at that pace , and Sami 's over there chilling . " <p> But on some issues , they are very much in agreement , like supermarket imitations of falafel . " It 's just awful if people think that 's falafel - and hummus should be warm ! " says Wigley . <p> " I literally cringe , " adds Tamimi with a shake of his head . <p> " It 's just shocking , we need to be able to campaign to get falafel only freshly fried . " <p> " They fry it in front of you so it 's piping hot - this is the way we eat it ! " <p> While the book is not a faithful representation of traditional Palestinian food , except in terms of ingredients used ( " I would be suggesting quinoa instead of bulgur for example , Sami would just draw a line and say , ' This is not a Palestinian ingredient ' , " notes Wigley ) how Palestinians eat is at its core . <p> " You do n't cook for two people , you cook for 20 people , " says Tamimi . " It 's an open house - you never know who is going to come and it 's a big no-no not to have enough food for everybody . <p> " Every Palestinian house has a massive freezer that 's full of food ready to go , " he adds . <p> Being able to lay on a spread at a moment 's notice is the norm - think pickles , olives and thick , green , grassy Palestinian olive oil , honey , cheese , bread , salads , seasonal mains , dips , shatta ( a chilli condiment ) . " And people basically help themselves . There 's no ' my ' plate or ' your ' plate - this is what is wonderful about it , " says Tamimi . <p> " It 's lovely , eating with your hands , using the bread to scoop it up - the bread becomes a utensil - this is the opposite of uptight , " says Wigley . " It 's the beauty of traditions actually being enacted in every house . " <p> Plus , she adds , it 's not like the sharing plates you often get given here ( " They 're so darn small . You 've got to divide them perfectly ! " ) . Food is bountiful - and if you 're not eating , more morsels will be shoved on your plate . " One meal rolls into the next . " <p> Falastin : A Cookbook by Sami Tamimi and Tara Wigley , photography by Jenny Zarins , is published by Ebury Press , priced ? 27 . Available now <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here 
@@84586786 <p> The Commission for Prisoners Affairs has called on the UN to urge Israel to release Palestinian detainees amid coronavirus fears . ( Photo : File ) <p> Israeli authorities have enlisted an Egyptian mediation team to advance negotiations with Hamas over a prisoner exchange , according to Al-Araby Al Jadeed . <p> The team has been instructed to tell Hamas that its request for vulnerable prisoners to be released could be advanced if it discloses information on the status of the four Israelis currently held in the Gaza Strip . <p> Yahya Sinwar , Hamas ' leader in Gaza , hinted earlier this month that the group would be open to such a deal if Israel agrees to release female , elderly and vulnerable Palestinian prisoners due to the outbreak of COVID-19 in Israel and the Palestinian territories . <p> On April 7 , After weeks of speculation , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed willingness to enter into a prisoner exchange with Hamas . <p> On April 1 , Israeli Defense Minister Naftali Bennett suggested that Israel will condition any assistance to the besieged Gaza Strip , in its desperate fight against the Coronavirus , on the release of the bodies of two Israeli soldiers . <p> Join our editors Ramzy Baroud and Romana Rubeo as they commemorate Palestinians ' Prisoners Day in a live broadcast on ... <p> Besieged and war-stricken Gaza is struggling to cope with the full out of the COVID-19 disease , which is caused by the Coronavirus . Thirteen people have already been reported to have the Coronavirus . However , health experts say the number could be much higher , especially since Gaza 's healthcare system , which is on the verge of collapse , is unequipped to diagnose or to care for COVID-19 patients . <h> Related Articles <p> Amnesty International has joined a legal case challenging the Israeli government 's decision to expel Human Rights Watch 's ( HRW ) Country Director Omar Shakir . Shakir had his work permit removed by Israeli authorities in May 2018 and was ... <p> Leading Israeli officials on Wednesday called for the annexation of Hebron ( Al-Khalil ) , a Palestinian city already scarred by illegal occupation that has carved it in two . Knesset Speaker Yuli Edelstein and Culture Minister Miri Regev ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41915621 <p> His views , informed by a broad coterie of policy advisers and French grandees , are largely unformed -- with one , new exception . To listen to his closest foreign policy advisers , this bitter campaign that saw Macron face off against pro-Moscow opponents including Marine Le Pen and hacked by suspected Kremlin operatives has been the making of a Russia hawk . <p> When it comes to Moscow , France will now respond with the Macron doctrine . <p> " We will have a doctrine of retaliation when it comes to Russian cyberattacks or any other kind of attacks , " Macron 's official foreign policy adviser Aur ? lien Lechevallier told me . " This means we are ready to retaliate against cyberattacks -- not only in kind but also with any other conventional measure or security tool . " <p> A personal friend of the newly elected president since their university days at L'Ecole Nationale D'Administration , Lechevallier is a former diplomatic adviser to the mayor of Paris and a former cultural attach ? in Beirut . <p> Macron 's centrist En Marche campaign believes it was the victim of a sustained Russian digital propaganda campaign , intended to spread fake news and smear Macron as a sexual deviant and the tool of an oligarchic " Rothschild " plot ( in a reference to his spell as a banker at Rothschild in Paris ) . This culminated in a gigantic hack of En Marche , with documents dumped online only hours before France 's formal electoral media blackout began , which campaign staff said carried Moscow 's electronic fingerprints . <p> " Cyberhacks and info-ops would make you take a very dim view of the person governing Russia , even if you had no prejudices before you started campaigning , " said Fran ? ois Heisbourg , chairman of the council of the International Institute for Strategic Studies , who has been advising Macron on defense and security . <p> The candidate himself had no hard views on the Kremlin , Macron 's closest foreign policy advisers told me at the beginning of the campaign -- a view echoed by Heisbourg . " To my understanding , he did n't have any particularly strong feelings on foreign affairs in general , " Heisbourg said . " He had n't made any particular statements on China or on Russia . He had n't identified himself as being from a values-based or a realpolitik school . He came with a low base of knowledge and no biases . " <p> " The Russian attacks have backfired , " said Bruno Tertrais , deputy director of La Fondation Pour La Recherche Strat ? gique , who has been closely involved in both Macron 's foreign policy and defense expert group . " They have hardened him ... and they have hardened his views on Russia . " <h> Emmanuel the Unready ? <p> The new president knows the EU -- and also the limits of his foreign policy knowledge . <p> " Macron is extremely well-prepared on European , financial and macroeconomic affairs , " said Tertrais . " Maybe the best prepared of any president of recent times . But his comfort zone stops there . " <p> Macron 's team brags of his understanding of Brussels , his expertise on the geopolitics of the eurozone and the fine points of international finance that have sunk so many Europeans leaders since the 2008 financial crash . Summits are nothing new to Macron , who served as President Fran ? ois Hollande 's sherpa at critical EU gatherings on the Greek debt crisis and during both a G7 and G20 summit . <p> Macron 's debut on the foreign stage , and first meeting with Donald Trump , will be at the NATO summit later this month in Brussels . <p> " Yet , I think it 's possible that he underestimates how much time foreign policy defense and counter-terrorism will take him . They take up about half the job , " said Tertrais . " It wo n't be long before the 3 a.m. phone call . " <p> He wo n't have long to prepare . <p> Macron will meet U.S. President Donald Trump in less than three weeks at the NATO summit in Brussels on May 25 . <p> To prepare for that encounter , he will draw on both French diplomats but also on six months of discussions and position-building by several groups of informal advisers . <p> Lechevallier has guided a foreign policy and security team of about 50 people over the past half year , with Heisbourg leading on defense and national security . Macron 's chief European affairs adviser Cl ? ment Beaune has steered a parallel group on EU affairs . " Think of this as a guerrilla army , " said Heisbourg . <p> But the list of Macron 's advisers on security and foreign affairs read less like a guerrilla army and more like a who 's who of the French policy establishment , including Jean-Claude Cousseran , the former head of the French secret service ; Justin Va ? sse , the head of policy planning at the foreign ministry ; Antoine Michon , the head of the climate desk at the foreign ministry ; Nathalie Loiseau , a former director general of the foreign ministry ; Muriel Domenach , the director of the anti-radicalization commission ; Guillaume Ollagnier , chief of staff for the foreign minister and G ? rard Araud , the ambassador to Washington . <p> Informally Macron has also sought the advice of ex-President Fran ? ois Mitterrand 's diplomatic adviser and later foreign minister , Hubert V ? drine , and former President Jacques Chirac 's ex-Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin . Jean-Yves Le Drian , the incumbent defense minister , has also been providing advice to En Marche and is tipped to remain in his post . <p> Despite the marquee names , the foreign policy group was widely seen by those who participated in meetings as something of a failure , with many saying it contributed to Macron 's poor performance during the foreign policy segments of the debates . " Alarm bells rang after that , " said a senior campaign adviser . " But little was done to change things . " Twice , a major foreign policy interview was scheduled with a newspaper , only to be canceled , with sources suggesting the team was n't confident enough to carry it through . <p> " The group lacked a strong , respected , figure to impose himself , " said one senior campaign adviser . " Briefing papers , often contradictory , were flying around , and more often than not confusing him . " <p> Favorite for the influential Elys ? e post of diplomatic adviser is G ? rard Araud , the outgoing Washington ambassador . <p> The senior rank of those advising and the junior rank of those closest to Macron repeatedly created friction in the campaign , multiple sources said . The work on defense and national security was seen as more successful , with Macron feeling confident enough to make major speeches on the issues and to start pushing them during the debates . When it came to terrorism , En Marche decided to bring Macron together for hours-long sessions with policemen , teachers , psychiatrists and others seeing radicalization close-up . <p> " Ask him what the new pensions regime will be and he would explain it in five minutes -- beautifully and luminously , " said Heisbourg . " But ask him what his policy is on Syria and he will line up sentence after sentence and speak for fifteen minutes in a way that people will have difficulty understanding . It shows on television . But this does n't worry me -- it 's called the learning curve . " <p> Given the new president 's relative unfamiliarity with the issues , Macron 's foreign policy is expected to be heavily shaped by his foreign minister . He has as yet to make a decision on who will be his man in the Quai d'Orsay . Who is eventually selected will depend on the coming June legislative elections , sources said . <p> Favorite for the influential Elys ? e post of diplomatic adviser is Araud , the outgoing Washington ambassador . Multiple campaign sources expect that should En Marche win a majority in the June elections , it would free Macron 's hands in appointing political novices to high office . <p> However , should En Marche not win a majority , Macron 's ministerial picks will become hostage to coalition building . Multiple campaign sources said Macron might use the foreign ministry to tempt a R ? publicain grandee to cross the floor . Former Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin is said to be under consideration . <h> Manu , meet Donald <p> Macron 's most worked-over dossier is the Trump folder . <p> " As far as the United States is concerned , " said Lechevallier , " we have a full working agenda . " <p> Lechevallier said that France wants to propose " a new security initiative on Libya " and discuss Syria and Ukraine . " These are the three core security issues . " Simultaneously Macron will seek " clarification " from the White House on its position on free trade , the Iran nuclear deal and the Paris climate accords . <p> " We will be a little bit worried if the United States revises its participation in the Paris Accords and we want the United States to remain in it , " said Lechevallier . " Potentially we can be more flexible but we want the United States to remain in the agreement . <p> Macron will meet U.S. President Donald Trump later this month Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images <p> " When it comes to the Iran nuclear deal , we want to work very closely on the follow-up making sure it remains in place but is diligently executed , " he added . " We understand there is a policy review in place and we want to test some options . " <p> The fight against terrorism will be France 's priority at the NATO summit in Brussels and high on the agenda at Macron 's first European Council meeting in June . Meanwhile , in Paris , one of the president 's first acts will be to create a 24/7 anti-ISIS task force to coordinate France 's operations in Iraq and Syria with allies and partners . <p> " The president has one challenge , " Lechevallier said . " We have a lot of reforms to do in France . We have a very packed schedule for the first hundred days . " <p> &gt;https : **33;2628;TOOLONG ... and Out in Londonhttps : **33;2663;TOOLONG ... https : **39;2698;TOOLONG ... 23 Jun 2016 03:30:37 +0000https : //www.politico.eu/ ? posttype=artic ... -- This is Romford , the other London . <p> This is not the London of hipster beards , Eurostar bankers and some of the most Europhile areas in Britain . This is the London of Lonsdale tracksuits , greyhound racing and the most Euroskeptic area in Britain . <p> The bursting train pulls into the gritty platform . We are 45 minutes from Westminster , in London 's easternmost borough of Havering . <p> London is not one place , even when it comes to Europe . It is not the clich ? d capital of Remain in the EU referendum , an island cast adrift from the rest of Euroskeptic England . <p> London is a patchwork of 32 boroughs -- according to pollsters YouGov , six are Euroskeptic , 15 are Europhile , nine are Euroaverage , and two failed to produce enough data . <p> Five of the capital 's youthful , ethnically diverse , innermost areas are among the top 10 most Europhile areas in the country . <p> I have come to Havering -- 113 square kilometers , home to over a quarter of a million people , and the most Euroskeptic place in Britain . I want to hear what this other London thinks . <p> The referendum has been relentless . All morning I have been meeting MPs . I leaf through my notebooks . The pages are a catalogue of fierce accusations . <p> If this is right , I tell myself as I walk out of the station , I will find people in the most Euroskeptic area on the verge of breakdown . <p> It takes me 15 minutes to meet those braced for race war . <p> In the Romford mall I meet a decorator . He is deeply upset . <p> " Out -- it 's better for the English people , " says Terry Garbett , 50 . <p> Terry had not known until the referendum that problems he sees all around him were the result of overpopulation , stemming from a tidal wave of immigration from the European Union , only set to rise exponentially with Turkish membership imminent . <p> " I think personally it 's only a question of time . " <p> Terry has come to believe the English could rise up against immigration or immigrants could take up arms against the English . <p> " I think there will be like we had World War I , World War II ... I think there could be another , something happening in this country again , sooner or later , purely because , some people have had enough . " <p> The English , he explains , stopped Margaret Thatcher 's hated poll tax with riots . Terry thinks this could happen again to stop immigration . " Sooner or later something will happen . People get to a point -- enough 's enough . " <p> Nearly half of Leave voters believe the result will be fixed , according to YouGov . <p> Will people like Terry riot if there is a narrow Remain win ? If Boris Johnson were to nudge , I believe there is a chance . <p> * * * <p> I am listening to the Boris Johnson of Romford , a man , like so many others , terrified of the European Union . <p> " We are not an independent country . " <p> This is the voice of Andrew Rosindell , the Conservative MP for Romford , as it bellows down the nave of Saint Edward the Confessor 's Church . This is one of his final warnings . <p> " This is not what our forbearers , our fathers , our grandfathers fought for . Now we are effectively controlled by the EU . " <p> I start to feel emotional listening to the MP . Over the past hour , at this church debate , I have learnt a great deal . I never knew , but British democracy is on the brink of extinction . <p> " We can no longer say no , " booms Rosindell . " We have to accept everything the EU tell us ... ! That is n't democracy . This is n't what our forbearers fought for ... That is n't what we should tolerate ! " <p> I begin to feel frightened of Germans -- " who run the horrific euro system for their benefit alone . " How could I not have realized ? All this talk of my forefathers and a German-controlled EU reminded me of what Boris had said about the European Union and Hitler . <p> " I believe that our parliament , our law and ... our Queen must be sovereign in our own land , " thunders Rosindell . <p> Horrified , I begin to feel angry at the prime minister for collaborating with this great betrayal . I feel a rising fury at " the mega-banks " for deceiving us like this . <p> " We need to be independent , make our own laws , chart our own destiny . Vote for our independence day . " <p> There is applause . There has to be -- applause for Britain . And a few jeers and shouts of lies from the Remainers . <p> Stunned , feeling as though I have been hoodwinked for years , I step outside to speak to the Conservative MP directly . Does he actually believe democracy is at risk ? <p> " We are at a tipping point , " says Rosindell . " If we say yes , at this point , and we give the green light we are going to be locked into this and it 's going to be very , very difficult to see how we can ever break free . " <p> This is what Brexit campaigning feels like on the ground . Men like Rosindell , believing , and propagating that June 23 is a vote that will decide if Britain continues to exist . <p> " Eventually we will be in a political union where we are completely controlled . Our parliament will become , probably , a museum as it wo n't have any powers anymore and I do n't want that to happen because I believe in British democracy . " <p> This is the Brexiteers ' referendum . <p> This is not a referendum on whether Britain remains a member of the European Union . This is a referendum on whether Britain remains part of a German-controlled , banker-run bureaucratic pseudo-Union that will inevitably end British democracy , roll up Britain as a state and flood the country with unlimited numbers of Turkish and Eastern European migrants , ending the England we know . <p> This is a referendum to save Britain . <p> Apparently . <p> But how many people in Romford actually believe this ? The answer , I find , is not as many as YouGov suggest . <p> * * * <p> Pacing outside Romford station I ask 100 people how they intend to vote in the referendum . There is a sharp ethnic divide : white British voters are overwhelmingly Out . <p> " I want to take back control . We 've lost control . Just look around you , " says Pete Smith , 52 , a laborer , pointing at the mostly Eastern European , Asian and African faces at the bus stop . <p> " We ca n't take any more immigration . London 's full , " says James Butcher , 49 , who works in retail . " The trains are totally full . " <p> " I like the idea of actually having a say and taking control of my country , " says Ross , 30 , an account manager . <p> " They somehow want to stop the train and get off from this whole globalization thing . They want to go back to a nostalgic 1950s Britain that can no longer exist . " <p> Pollsters such as YouGov claim Brits are very prone to changing their minds , making polling much harder . <p> Several people I speak to back this up . <p> " I was looking at Cameron on TV yesterday , " says Enny Chelsey , 24 , an account manager . " And he said the Leave campaign there was three things they were saying that was n't true . So now that 's just thrown me off completely and I do n't know who to believe . " <p> * * * <p> If Britain 's most Euroskeptic place is n't so uniformly pro-Brexit as I imagined , perhaps Remain campaigners have reason to feel optimistic . <p> Charles Tannock , a Remain campaigner and Conservative MEP for London for 17 years , feels many things but optimism is n't one of them . <p> In a recent YouGov survey , the London borough of Havering was named as the most Eurosceptic place in the country Dan Kitwood/Getty Images <p> Leafleting across London 's pebbledash outer suburbs has been nothing but dispiriting , he tells me . Four out of five people have rejected him . " They are not listening , " says Tannock . " They just shout -- Out ! And do n't want to know . " <p> " It has been a very bruising , very difficult campaign . In fact it has been perhaps the most difficult I have ever experienced . " <p> The outer London Tannock has been leafleting is not the liberal playground of people 's imagination . In Havering , Bromley and Bexley more than 70 percent of the population is still white and heavily working class . <p> " There 's a lot of anger . There 's a section of the population that feels disaffected , disposed , undercut . There 's resentment , at visible changes around them they ca n't control , they ca n't account for , which normal politicians ca n't deliver . " <p> The referendum is not just about the EU but the new Britain . <p> " They just somehow want to stop the train and get off it from this whole globalization thing . They just want to go back to a nostalgic 1950s Britain that can no longer exist . " <p> In 1971 the white British made up 86 percent of London . In 2011 it had fallen to 45 percent . <p> " It 's all about immigration , " says Tannock . <p> This huge upsurge of emotion is why Remain campaigners on the ground expect the London results to be disappointing . When leafleting they are only finding three-to-one support for Remain in inner London . Postal votes , too , have disappointed , according to a Labour source . Labour activists , believed by party officials to be exhausted after the mayoral election , have not turned out in large numbers to campaign for the European Union . <p> " I still believe Remain will win overall in London , " says Tannock , a retired psychiatrist . But then what ? " It is a cathartic moment and I have no idea where it will end . " <p> Like all Remain campaigners I have met he believes the Leave campaign has done serious damage to British ethnic relations . <p> " This scapegoating of immigrants -- people will not easily forget this . Eastern Europeans families will not look back and forget . If Leave win this is going to be a much nastier country . " <p> * * * <p> I take the tube to the end of the Northern Line in search of London 's Romanians . So central to the political narrative of this referendum , what do new arrivals make of the debate ? <p> This is Edgware , on the edge of London , and the most Jewish place in Britain . Increasingly , it resembles a grand reunion . British Jews , overwhelmingly the descendants of Polish , Russian and Romanian Jews who arrived in the late 19th century , now live next door to Polish shops and a Romanian pub run by newcomers who arrived only a few years ago . <p> Edgware Road Station station in London Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images <p> How worried are London 's Romanians ? Not so much , I discover . <p> Walking from Edgware to Burnt Oak I ask 100 Romanian migrants what they expect the result to be : 66 say Remain , 13 Leave , 12 say they did n't care and 9 do n't know . <p> Are they frightened of a looming Brexit ? <p> When I ask what Britain leaving the European Union would mean for you : 35 say it would be good for them , 35 say it would be bad and 30 think it would make no difference at all . <p> Indifference and optimism are glued together by a widespread belief that the result will be fixed anyway . <p> " The Queen has all the money and will stop Brexit , " says Ionut Sharpe , 42 , a laborer . " I believe most of the country will vote to leave but she will stop it to protect her money . " <p> " I 'm sure they will vote for out , " says Mircea Radulescu , 29 , an electrician . " But the vote will be manipulated and they will not actually leave . The real powers -- Russia and the United States -- will sort out the result just like they do in Romania . " <p> Despite the rhetoric of Romford , none of the Romanian migrants I meet feel frightened or seriously persecuted . <p> Sipping coffees at the Romanian patisserie , there is much enthusiasm for Brexit amongst these laborers . <p> " It will be so much better , " said Stefan Ditah , 26 , a demolitions superintendent . " There will be so much more work , less competition . I 'm sure we 'll be paid ? 80- ? 90 a day instead of ? 50 . " <p> His two friends , also laborers , nod approvingly . <p> With little English , living lives where foremen shout orders in Romanian by day and roommates chatter in Romanian at night , it was clear that many of these isolated migrants had a strictly limited grasp on the referendum . <p> " If the Indians are allowed to vote then it will definitely be Out , " said Ionut Belcarnu , 34 , an unemployed laborer . " The Indians will vote Out to try and stop the Romanian competition . There are loads of them and they want more work for them and less for us so they are going to stop us coming . " <p> From the Bucovina grocers to the Timosearana greasy spoon , Romanian London is ignoring England 's summer of hysteria . <p> Maybe , I thought , as I trudge back to the tube , we should all do the same . This referendum is not so much a debate , not an exchange of views , but a collision of deep fears about Britain . Will it immigration end an old beloved England ? Or will Brexit rip apart the new multi-ethnic Britain ? <p> Communities spread across this kaleidoscope of a city do n't just disagree , they think they are being asked to vote on entirely different questions . The only thread that unites them , it seems , is the suspicion that in the end it is not them who will answer the question at all . <p> Ben Judah is a contributing writer at POLITICO . Rachel Judah filmed and edited the videos included in this article . <p> &gt;https : **33;2739;TOOLONG ... ghost lurks over Brexit campaignhttps : **31;2774;TOOLONG ... https : **39;2807;TOOLONG ... 21 Jun 2016 03:27:14 +0000https : //www.politico.eu/ ? posttype=artic ... -- This is England in the fields . Mile after mile , glowing , reaped green and yellow with rapeseed . Lincolnshire is the county of trundling lorries , Romanian gang masters and peace on a Sunday . <p> Lincolnshire is also the county of Grantham . Everyone in Britain knows this town that splendor forgot . Because everything in Britain seems to go back to Margaret Thatcher , and she grew up in Grantham . <p> The grocer 's daughter , born more than 90 years ago in this market town 100 miles from London , is still the yardstick of British politics , a shorthand both sides reach for to define their ideas . <p> But would Thatcher be in favor of remaining in the European Union or leaving it ? David Cameron says Thatcher , one of the creators of the single market , would obviously have been In . Boris Johnson says that as the prime minister who screamed " No , No , No " to the push in 1990 to turn the common market into a political union , she would have obviously been Out . Europe is the fault line running through Tory politics and both sides claim to follow the footsteps of Thatcher 's ghost . <p> The train pulls into Grantham . Thatcher was the lay preacher 's little girl who would deliver veg with him and follow him to sermons in villages . She idolized her father -- never mentioned her mother -- and became a politician because of him . Alfred Roberts sat on the council and was even briefly the mayor . <p> Grantham is silent in the evening . Trickling drains and drips are all I hear as I walk down sloping red terraces with mean little windows towards the shop where Thatcher was born , until the train breaks the silence with a hoot that promises London . <p> " The biggest excitement of my early years , " Thatcher once said , was when she first took that train . <p> It takes only minutes for me to find her Grantham is gone . Almost completely . There are no more small grocers like her father . I count 25 dead shops and a dead pub . The doors are grilled shut , with warnings that " All objects of value have been removed . " <p> Grantham shopkeepers like Thatcher 's father have gone the same way as miners . The free market forces she celebrated have obliterated them . The busiest square in Grantham is the football-pitch-sized car park between Lidl and Asda . <p> Thatcher 's corner shop on 1 North Parade is now the Living Health pampering shop offering tanning , waxing , massages , back care and hypnotherapy . I step out of the drizzle . Ambient music is playing as I ask the heavily made-up receptionist behind the counter how she thinks Thatcher would have voted . " I 'm not really sure how she would have voted , " says Jessica Read , 21 . " I know she was a very important lady and very opinionated . " <p> Thatcher 's Grantham may have vanished but what about the Alfred Roberts of today ? I want to find out what Grantham thinks . This is the real referendum , I think -- small towns , local politicians leafleting , and quiet words in front of the telly . <h> The town the referendum forgot <p> I walk on , past the Nobody Inn . <p> There is no statue of Margaret Thatcher . No museum . No road named after her . She is , mostly , unloved . <p> I turn at the Angel and Royal , England 's oldest coaching inn . Seven kings and Oliver Cromwell stayed here , on the road north . <p> ' Would Margaret Thatcher have allowed an EU referendum ? I could n't see her doing that ' -- Linda Wooten , mayor of Grantham <p> Walking around Grantham you would never know there was a referendum happening . I can only find one poster . <p> Wet from drizzle , I ring on the Wootens ' doorbell . There are two cars in the drive , one a new Jaguar . Here are Alfred Roberts ' successors . <p> " We are very patriotic about Margaret Thatcher . " <p> Linda Wooten , 64 , is the new mayor of Grantham -- a ceremonial role -- as well as a district and county councilor . Like his wife , Ray Wooten is not only 64 but also a district and county councilor . He too was mayor of Grantham once and chairman of Lincolnshire county council . <p> " It 's a bit sad there has been such little campaigning , " sighs Linda . <p> The mayor has seen nobody from Remain leafleting and nobody from Leave leafleting . There is only one UKIP stand in the town at the weekend . She thinks no events are planned before polling day . <p> " Only one politician came to Grantham , " says Linda . " It was very quick but Iain Duncan Smith came on his battle bus . We were lucky to have it ... It was all quite surreal . People lined up on the street to see him . " <p> The Wootens are what British politicians actually look like . There are only 650 MPs , but there are 22,050 elected councilors . Linda used to work as a departmental manager at BHS and Ray is a retired policeman . They are the unknown , tiny politicians that the country does not realize its running depends on . <p> I am sitting in the Wootens ' spacious kitchen . How do they think Thatcher would have voted ? <p> " It really is difficult , " says Linda . " Would Margaret Thatcher have allowed an EU referendum ? I could n't see her doing that . " <p> Linda is voting Out . But Thatcher ? She hesitates , then shakes her head . " I ca n't say how she would have voted . " <p> Her husband Ray is clearer . <p> " I think she 'd be voting Out . She 'd have the same view as us ... we all wanted to go into the Common Market and see great trading for Britain but the fact is they are now telling us what to do ... I think she 'd say Out ! I think she would have wanted to bring control back to the country . " <p> Ray is n't thinking of the Thatcher who campaigned for Britain to join the European Economic Community in its last referendum on Europe in 1975 and later committed Britain to what would become the single market . He is thinking of the Thatcher who in 1995 criticized John Major for ceding too much sovereignty and signing the treaty founding the new EU , saying Britain might one day have to withdraw . <p> Thatcher , despite all this , never called for Britain to leave the EU . She only went as far as calling , in 2002 , for " a fundamental renegotiation " -- a call that Cameron was forced by his party to honor a decade later . " We wanted a referendum for years , " says Linda . <p> Not all Wootens agree . They tell me their son , a nuclear engineer working in one of the British plants run by French state energy company EDF , tried to convince them to vote In . <p> Immigration is a big reason why the Wootens are voting Out . They have mixed feelings . They love their Polish dentist , see Polish families happily settling in , but are also uneasy . <p> When he was chairman of the county council , Ray attended monthly citizenship ceremonies in Lincoln , Boston and Grantham . " The people we met at citizenships were lovely and very proud and patriotic , " says Ray . Once , after the immigrants got their certificates , he gave a speech about the rule of law and a Venezuelan woman cried . " She said in her country , none of this exists , " says Ray . This made him feel immensely proud . <p> Yet the scale alarms him . " We 're losing our identity , " he says . He frets how this new country will ever hold together . " With this immigration rate , " says Ray , " and the rate of British citizenship , eventually in years to come we 'll be outnumbered . And that 's not being little Englander , it 's being patriotic . " <p> According to an Oxford University study , those identifying themselves as white British will cease to be the majority in 2070 . <p> " I 'm just worried about it , " says Ray . <h> Another Thatcher <p> What do the people who knew Thatcher think ? <p> " I knew her father and her sister very well ... Her father was a rather dour Methodist . " <p> I am chatting with Jacky Smith , 70 , last year 's mayor of Grantham , in the caf ? inside the old town hall . A stalwart of Grantham Conservatives for decades , the councilor met Thatcher at least five times . <p> " We talked about Europe , " she says . " And I think she was a big supporter of it . " <p> ' The Thatcher I knew saw Europe as something we could shape and bring it round to our way of thinking ' -- Jacky Smith , former mayor of Grantham <p> There is something of Thatcher 's determination about Smith and her career against the odds . She never went to university despite graduating from the same secondary school as Thatcher . For 15 years she worked as an oil and gas exploration engineer over the Iron Curtain in the Eastern Bloc . <p> " The KGB was always following me , " she chuckles . <p> We walk up to the town hall 's Thatcher plaque . <p> " The biggest thing we have n't considered is international security ... David Cameron tried to raise this and was called a scaremonger . Yet we have the former head of the KGB in charge of Russia . His attitude is he lost the satellite states and he wants them back . " <p> The Thatcher that Smith remembers is a Cold Warrior who bellowed in Bruges in 1988 : " Britain does not dream of some cozy , isolated existence on the fringes of the European Community . Our destiny is in Europe , as part of the community . " <p> Smith wears a gold brooch shaped like a waving cat and utterly dismisses the idea the Thatcher she knew would have voted for Brexit . <p> " I do n't think she would have had much time for them . She would have said ... we have to be in and we have to be a big player . You 've got to be at the table . " <p> Smith is among the minority in the local Conservatives . At the last branch meeting , the Wootens say , they were 7-1 for Brexit . At their only referendum debate , members that turned up -- not all did -- voted 60-4 for Brexit . <p> " The Thatcher I knew saw Europe as something we could shape and bring it round to our way of thinking . She thought it was the safest way for the country , a small island like Britain , which would n't have as much sway on its own . " <p> Why do so many want out ? <p> " They do n't want to see their way of life destroyed or challenged . They 're isolationists . They are old Lincolnshire people . We 're an old rural county , of old rural communities . " <p> As I begin to leave Smith tells me her late husband was one of the soldiers who liberated Belsen . The war still shapes her vote . <p> " The older people in some ways want to stay as they realize since we 've had some sort of cooperation we have had a long period of peace . It 's probably the middle-aged generation who have more antipathy . " <p> I think how the war shaped Thatcher 's vision of Europe too . Her commitment to it , but also her suspicion of it . In 2002 in her book " Statecraft " she wrote : " Most of the problems the world has faced have come from mainland Europe . And the solutions from outside it . " <p> Thatcher is irrelevant on the street . So is bureaucracy , trade and foreign policy . Only immigration matters . <p> Up and down the high street I ask 100 people how they plan to vote : 50 are Out , 21 are In , 16 undecided and three non-voters . A further 10 could n't speak English . <p> " The country is going to the dogs , " says Cliff Richman , a 70-year-old retired window cleaner . " You go to Peterborough , nobody speaks English . I hate it ... It 's one of my pet peeves when ... they speak to each other and it 's not in English . " <p> I am repeatedly told immigrants are to blame for England 's crumbling social housing , struggling NHS and unaffordable homes . So the refrain goes on until I stop polling . <p> This reminds me that Thatcher loathed referendums , calling them in 1975 " a device of dictators and demagogues . " <h> Another Peasants ' Revolt <p> I chase Margaret 's ghost back to London , to the where she was really Thatcher -- Westminster . <p> I get off at Platform 8 and it hits me , just as it hits me every time : How different London looks . <p> Lincolnshire is 98.5 percent white . Two days in Grantham and I had seen only four non-whites faces . On my tube carriage to Westminster , I count 16 of the 32 on board are non-white . London is an island : At least 40 percent non-white . <p> ' This is not only an EU referendum . This has turned into a referendum on the establishment ' -- Kwasi Kwarteng MP <p> As I arrive , a Remain MP phones , telling me he is so worried about a Leave win triggering a run of sterling , he is moving his money into dollars . My phone fills with text messages : Panic in Westminster . <p> I walk under the cavernous beams of Westminster Hall into parliament and pause at the wall painting on the vaulted corridor towards the Commons . The Turbans of the Mughal Emperor and courtiers accepting England 's first emissary . Queen Elizabeth , the Faerie Queen of Knights and Merchant Venturers , commissioning Sir Walter Raleigh to discover new countries . <p> I have come to meet Kwasi Kwarteng , Conservative MP for Spelthorne , Surrey . Two weeks ago Kwarteng thought Remain had it in the bag . The son of Ghanaian immigrants gives lie to the idea that Leave campaigners are only English nationalists . An MP since 2005 , Kwarteng speaks Twi and is learning Arabic , is an ardent Brexiteer and one of the foremost historians of the British Empire . <p> " I entered this campaign thinking it would be the last gasp of British exceptionalism , " he says . " Now look ... it 's reawakening . " <p> Kwarteng 's most recent book is about Thatcher . <p> " The idea she would have voted In is not very credible as she only died three years ago and all her associates and closest allies are Out . And all her enemies are prominent Inners . And just look where she 's from , look who she represented . " <p> As we sit and talk in the bright atrium of Portcullis House , where many MPs have offices , aides scurry after their bosses , catching snatches of swearwords and urgent calls . <p> The atmosphere could not be more different from Grantham . <p> " This is not only an EU referendum . This has turned into a referendum on the establishment . " <p> This is not only the rejection of the EU . This is the rejection of an elite that has lost the people 's trust with its failures . <p> " I see this like 1641 and 1776 . There comes a time when your average person feels the rulers are totally out of sync and they hold us in contempt and we 're not putting up with it . " Kwarteng believes that in centuries past the referendum might have been a peasants ' revolt , a revolution or a civil war . <p> " I was amazed , " he says . " When the CEO of JP Morgan shared a platform with the chancellor in Bournemouth and basically warned these voters ' if you guys vote for Brexit you will be out of a job . ' This CEO earns $20 million a year and lives mostly in Manhattan , telling people who earn ? 25,000 a year they will be out of a job if they vote a certain way . This enrages people . " <p> Kwarteng believes small towns are not only suffering because of people who have arrived but because of people who have left . " There has been a huge hollowing out . At the time that Thatcher was born these old market towns were a world of gentries , local notables , the seats of aristocrats , towns where the young all stayed put and the wealthy would seek out tailors , cobblers and spice merchants on the high street . London , supermarkets , the internet -- change has sucked all of this out . " <p> I start telling Kwarteng about the rage at ethnic change I have found not only in Grantham but also across Middle England . How does he , the son of African immigrants , feel as a Brexiteer ? <p> " I think it 's regrettable . " <p> Immigration was n't always an issue . Kwarteng believes the unexpected mass migration that followed the European Union 's expansion to Central and Eastern Europe tipped the balance . <p> " Those numbers are huge , historically huge . " <p> Nearly 6 million Poles and Romanians moved westwards . <p> " What I say as a political analyst is that you have to understand immigration is only the most visible thing people think was done to them without being asked . What I say as a historian is that you have to understand the historical scale of immigration . " <p> Before the 19th century , explains Kwarteng , Britain had only had a trickle of migration since the Norman Conquest . Historical records show traces of continental traders , but the numbers were tiny . This was an island nation , not a land of movement like France or Italy . In a fit of purity England even expelled its Jews in 1209 and forbade them from returning until the 17th century . As late as then , historians believe London was nearly homogenous . <p> Only three waves left any demographic trace : Hugenots from France and the Netherlands in the mid 16th century , Irish and then Jewish migration in the mid and late 19th century respectively . The numbers were always small . Hugenots in the 16th century numbered less than 1 percent of the English population , Irish in the 19th century were less than 3 percent , and fewer than 250,000 Jews migrated to Britain between 1880 and 1914 . <p> " Look at the numbers . We can both say it 's xenophobia -- but we can not say it is not of significance , it is not a moment of history . " In 1931 only 1.75 percent of England and Wales were immigrants . By 2011 , two years before Thatcher 's death , over 20 percent of England and Wales were immigrants and their children . Net migration was 333,000 last year . <p> As I prepare to leave , the MP begins talking about his constituents and their sudden desire for change . <p> " They have this Cromwellian determination . " <p> " They want to take control -- not only of immigration , but so much more . And they want to really punish the establishment . I feel this is one of those popular waves , those moments in history when things suddenly move . " <p> Ben Judah is a contributing writer at POLITICO . Rachel Judah filmed and edited the videos included in this article . <p> Nobody knows where Middle England begins , I muse as the train pulls into Tonbridge , but they always know when they encounter it . <p> This is Kent , the garden of England , with its weald and cow fields , the England George Orwell wrote was so soft , so still it was as if nothing had ever happened there . <p> Meadows and thickets give way to new-builds and a station in Union Jack bunting . Tonbridge is in the Jaguar and gin belt of Conservative MPs , a wealthy 38,000 people strong commuter town in the blue ring of Home Counties that surround London . <p> Passing a Polish shop , I walk from the station into town . The man I have come to find is hard to miss . <p> The MP for Tonbridge and Malling since 2015 is standing on a tiny bridge distributing Remain leaflets with a jolly big grin . Something big is happening . Something so big he thinks it could damage not only Tonbridge , but London 's place in the world . <p> Seen from the street stalls of Middle England , Britain is tilting towards Brexit . <p> * * * <p> Tom Tugendhat , 42 , is the kind of Englishman who , a century ago , would have administered a swathe of the earth . The Conservative MP is a former army officer , a fluent Arabic speaker and ranked lieutenant colonel in Britain 's Intelligence Corps . He saw action in Iraq and Afghanistan . <p> The MP is convinced Brexit would wreck London 's role as the world 's financial capital , cripple Tonbridge 's economy and diminish Britain 's influence in Europe . " It will damage our alliances , " he says . " And I can tell you , going to war without allies is not something you want to do . " <p> Tugendhat , the nephew of former British EU Commissioner Christopher Tugendhat , thinks Brexit would also send sterling tumbling . But his message for the people of Tonbridge is adamantly not a facts-and-figures case like the prime minister 's . " For me the fundamental argument is one of principle , " says Tudenghat . " Leave are promising contradictory things . " <p> People are tending towards Out because it sells Brexit as two different things at once . " There are people in the Leave camp arguing a very racist , anti-immigrant platform , " says Tugendhat . " And those arguing a very internationalist , open platform . " <p> Brexiteers are now promising voters both open borders and drawbridge borders -- " that 's totally , completely in contradiction ! " <p> But what line has got Leave ahead in Tonbridge ? <p> " The fundamental line that 's cutting through on the Leave campaign , " he says , " is of course on immigration . " <p> " So it 's quite clear that the Leave campaign 's fundamental line is one for insularity . They talk of course about wanting to play a part in the world , but that 's incompatible with cutting yourself off from your nearest neighbors and cutting yourself off from migration . " <p> Midges rise up from the murk of the river , which curves in front of the slumped Plantagenet walls of Tonbridge Castle behind us . <p> " I think this is most importantly a question of identity , " he says , explaining this is why he disagrees with the Remain campaign 's relentless focus on facts and figures . So what principle is he fighting for with Remain ? <p> " When you look at a castle like that , that was built by foreigners in our land , but we could n't now identify those are foreigners but of course the Norman Kings became English Kings , " says Tugendhat , glancing behind at the ruins . " When you look at the changes that our society has seen over the last 400 or 500 years with the arrival of everyone from Dutch Protestants to Huguenots to , you know , Jews , to Bangladeshis -- we 've seen a remarkable change in our society in the last 50 , 100 , 300 years , so what I 'm arguing is a principle of who we are as a people , and I think we are a fair , a tolerant and an open society . " <p> " I know I should n't say it because I work in France sometimes ... but we ought to flood the Channel Tunnel " -- Raymond Hurst , 58-year-old gardener <p> Can the Remain campaign still win ? <p> " The Remain campaign will win Middle England more by watching the Leave campaign be overtaken by the migration debate . The reality is that the migration debate does n't sound fair or tolerant . " <p> This is the weekend of the Queen 's official 90th birthday celebration , and I leave Tugendhat as he readies to rush off to make a speech at one of many birthday fetes happening in Tonbridge . <p> Just before leaving , the MP says : <p> " They are not voting a racist ticket , " he says . " They are trying to reach an answer of what it means to be from these Islands in a world that is changing very , very fast . " <p> * * * <p> Changed it has . <p> Tonbridge used to commute into a cockney London -- a city that looked like Tonbridge . Now it commutes 43 minutes into a London it hardly recognizes . <p> In 1975 London was 85 percent white British ; by 2011 the share had fallen to 45 percent . In 1945 there were fewer than 10,000 non-white people in Britain . By 2011 just shy of 13 percent of the population was non-white and by 2050 ethnic minorities are projected to reach 30 percent of the population . <p> In or Out can not reliably be predicted by class . Not even all of Tonbridge 's immigrants are for In . <p> I stroll towards the Norman castle . On a bench under the wall , I meet Betty Woodgate . The 83-year-old grandmother tells me she felt lonely at home so went for a walk along the river , but this heat has tired her out . She is leaning Out . <p> " To start with I was very much for In , " she says , " but I 'm having my doubts now over certain issues . " <p> England has changed so very fast , she says . Betty was a Kent farmer 's secretary . Back when she started it was students who picked hops but now it is Poles . " I would hate this country not to be British , " she says . " Not to have our monarchy , not to have our traditions ... being the age I am , especially this weekend you look at it , how we love the Queen , and our monarchy . " <p> Only one thing could sway her back to Remain . <p> " It 's my age group , " she said . The generation that remembers the war and " that 's more worried than anything . I 'd like to know what my grandchildren think ... They 're in their 20s and I feel it 's the young people now who are going to be affected by anything anybody does . " <p> Families and ice creams are out . Remain campaigners feel up against it . Pacing up and down Tonbridge high street in a muggy heat , from the sweet shop packed with jars to the Pizza Express , I fast learn why . I ask 100 people how they intend to vote : 42 are for Leave , 26 for Remain , 10 do n't know , 15 wo n't vote and 7 tell me they are immigrants without the right to vote . <p> A man walks past a campaign poster by the " Leave.EU " campaign group in central London Leon Neal/AFP via Getty images <p> I stroll on . Sitting on the next bench I meet Tony Pankhurst , 51 , who introduces himself as an actor . His latest role had been as " granddad " in a National Express coach advert . <p> " I 've not really decided , and I 'm very confused , " he says . " But I do n't like immigration . Too many people coming taking our jobs , too many people coming taking our housing . " <p> Hazy light turns the River Medway brown , then green . The town is here , because the castle is here , and that is here because this bend of the river was the furthest point a Norman longship could be sailed inland from the sea . <p> Tony says he feels worried about England , as children play by the old moat . A child screams after kicking a flimsy red ball into the water . <p> " I think we 're losing our identity , " he says . " I remember back to the years of Enoch Powell . At the time he was saying if we 're not careful we will no longer be our own country and we will be people within a country ... English in a foreign country ... at the time people shot him down and went what a racist he was and how terrible he was for saying it , but over a period of time he was absolutely right in what he said . " <p> " In the old case it was ' the economy , stupid , ' but in this case it 's basically , ' it 's immigration , stupid . ' This is the issue . The real issue " -- Peter Bone , pro-Brexit MP <p> In 1968 the Conservative MP Enoch Powell gave perhaps the second-most famous speech in 20th century British politics after Churchill 's entreaty to " fight them on the beaches . " Powell 's is still known as " the rivers of blood , " his warning of the dangers of , in particular , non-white immigration . He was passionately anti-EU . <p> On the bridge over the Medway , I met Joe Roberts , a 23-year-old medical student eating a sandwich . " I 'm Remain , definitely , " he says . " Because the world 's very connected today and you have to stay connected . " He sighs when I tell him what most of Tonbridge says about " the foreigners . " <p> " Well , " he says , putting aside his sandwich . " I think people are moving around a lot more these days and I think it 's only natural for more foreign people to be here ... I 'm happy on the whole with immigration , as it 's really good I can go over to Europe and go interrailing . " <p> On the other side of the river , I find a gardener and a sales assistant having a pint . <p> " You go to Maidstone , nobody speaks English , " says Raymond Hurst , 58 , the gardener . " Go anywhere now . I 'm from Huddersfield in Yorkshire , it 's just Poles , Polish shops are opening up , if we stay in the Union , we 're letting more and more ... there are 6,000 murderers on the street ... they do n't know where they are ! " <p> " It 's not England anymore , " says Daniel Cresey , the 43-year-old sales assistant . " All the cockneys from London , they moved out of London . There 's no whites ... It 's not like I 'm prejudiced ... but there are no whites left in London . " <p> The gardener is indignant about farmers . " He 's saying ... who 's going to pick his crops . Who picked them before ? " <p> The sales assistant jumps in : " In World War Two all our granddads fought to keep Hitler out . And now we 're letting them in . " <p> " I should n't say , " says the gardener . " And I know I should n't say it because I work in France sometimes ... but we ought to flood the Channel Tunnel . Do you remember when they opened the Channel Tunnel not even a rat could get down , without being detected . All of a sudden now there 's migrants coming down . " <p> The vagueness , the enormity of the referendum , feels entirely different in Tonbridge from the elections the local politicians are used to . <p> Unlike in a regular contest to be an MP , Tom Tugendhat and his campaigners feel In or Out can not reliably be predicted by class . Not even all of Tonbridge 's immigrants are for In . <p> Trudging , hot , back to the train station I drop into Quality Continental Foods for some water . Half the sign is in Polish . The shop assistant , Johanna Jakubas , 25 , can not speak English . We speak in Russian . " I ca n't vote , " she says . " But if I could I would vote to Leave . There are too many immigrants and too many of them are drunks . " <p> * * * <p> The next day , I am still chasing MPs . <p> I drive into Oxfordshire country lanes . Yew trees wrap over hedgerows , as I head towards Witney . This is David Cameron 's constituency and , here too , practically on the prime minister 's front lawn , they are planting their street stalls . <p> I am in pursuit of two Brexiteer MPs . <p> Peter Bone and Tom Pursglove are a double act . A somewhat unusual double act . Bone is 63 and Pursglove 27 . Together they are touring the country to make the case for what their Grassroots Out campaign call " Independence . " <p> I look at my watch . I have to hurry . Bone and Pursglove are only here for an hour before they drive on , deeper into Middle England . <p> The car turns , zips through streets of slate roofs and pinkish stone , where Argos and Robert Dyas utilities stores nestle beneath crooked timbers . <p> A pub sign hangs near a row of traditional houses in Witney , a town in the constituency of British PM David Cameron Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images <p> The green opens up in front of me , ringed by rustling trees , stretching to the church , a modest , but proud , steeple rising in front of monkey-puzzle trees . Drizzle is falling . <p> A ring of some 30 , mostly grey and bald heads , ring Bone and Pursglove , nodding in devoted determination . The wet will not stop them . <p> Pursglove , the MP for Corby since 2015 , is speaking to the crowd . He raises his voice . <p> " You can argue as much as you like if it 's ? 377 million , ? 350 million , ? 300 million -- you can argue about the figures ... But think about the indirect costs as well ... the ? 350 million , the ? 377 million , ? 300 million just relates to the annual sum ... but we also pay a billion a year into President Juncker 's slush fund ... we pay a billion a year into the EU Central Bank ... we have additional costs lumped on top of our civil service as a result of trying to implement EU diktats ... So really that annual sum is a bit of a sideshow because the indirect costs attached to our membership are astronomical . " <p> The gathered cheer , astonished , worried about these vast sums . Pursglove 's argument references the Out campaign 's claim that Britain contributes ? 350 million per week towards the European Union . The number is inaccurate . The actual number is ? 276 million . But he is right : Numbers do not matter here . <p> What are his views on immigration ? <p> " I want to leave the single market , " he says to me . " As this is the only way to control immigration . " <p> I ask : How do you react to those who say this is xenophobic ? " Outrageous ! What we want is a points-based system that does not discriminate between anyone wherever he comes from -- so we can have more Commonwealth nurses , Indian doctors and people Australians , and not be forced to take people who are contributing less to our economy . " <p> Pursglove looks to Bone , who makes several tender jokes about his 27 years of age . Pursglove grins somewhere between irritation and affection . <p> " This is a radicals coup d ' ? tat in the party " -- pro-Remain Tory MP <p> Families pass us , cycling towards the church . <p> I start talking to Bone , who has served as MP for Wellingborough since 2005 . He is wearing a blue pinstripe suit , a purple shirt and a black and electric-green Grassroots Out tie . <p> In 1995 Bone was called the " Meanest boss in Britain " by the Daily Mirror for paying a 17-year-old trainee 87p an hour . <p> The MP says he is going to win . He also looks and sounds like he is going to win . He says that everything in British and American politics right now , from Donald Trump to Jeremy Corbyn , points to the big , huge , shock -- and an imminent Brexit . <p> " Let 's be honest about it , " says Bone . " There is one reason over the other reasons , and that 's immigration . A third of a million people are coming into the United Kingdom every year . That is not sustainable . The only way we can control it is by coming out of the EU . " <p> Bone smiles . <p> " In the old case it was ' the economy , stupid , ' but in this case it 's ... basically ... ' it 's immigration , stupid . ' This is the issue . The real issue . " <p> It is perfectly clear to him this is not just Middle England 's EU referendum , this is Middle England 's immigration referendum . <p> I ask : What is the worst-case scenario with such uncontrolled immigration continuing ? <p> " There is a recipe for having down the road civil disobedience and unrest ... it 's very ... ' un-British ' ... But if you think a third of a million coming in every year uncontrolled largely from people who are largely ... um ... not particularly contributing ... to the economy , I think there 's a problem there . " <p> And David Cameron , what about him ? <p> " If we win , " he says . " I think he would want to go . " He pauses . " Nobody knows what will happen in the Conservative Party . " <p> My phone vibrates , by chance it 's a Number 10 source . I relay Bone 's prediction if the referendum delivers Brexit . " We 'll all be out of here in minutes . " Afterwards , I remember what a Remain Tory MP told me some days before . " This is a radicals coup d ' ? tat in the party . " <p> I start chatting to the activists . Immigration is their motivator , their organizer -- but not their only point . There is a keen , anguished sense , on the wet Witney Church green , that there is something horrific in having rules set by others . <p> Here , a stone 's throw from The Fleece , the prime minister 's favorite pub , an anti-Cameron party of Conservatives is gathering . Witney 's own Brexit campaigners hold no respect for him whatsoever , viewing him somewhere on a spectrum from coward to traitor . <p> " Well I have to say , I voted for him , I thought he was a good bloke , but I think he sold us down the river , " said Lyn Imesam , 66 , a copyeditor . " I think he betrayed us and should go . " <p> Two silver-haired men nod , saddened by it all . <p> " I think he 's at heart a Brexiteer , for leaving , but he thought that Remain would win this and he likes to be on the winning side , " says Barclay Lawrence , 68 , a retired schoolteacher . <p> Brexit in Witney is not only for Conservatives . This is the dream of so many other dreamers , devastated by what they see as a loss of England . <p> Colin Bex , 76 , clutches an ancient , auld Anglo-Saxon flag of a yellow dragon . He 's a Brexiteer and longtime campaigner from the Wessex Regionalists . " If we look back over 30 years , " says Bex . " We 've had in effect a peaceful invasion from all over the world . Now all our structures of government and bureaucracy are infiltrated by people from all over the world . " <p> I look around . Bone and Pursglove have already gone . Solemnly , Brexiteers disperse clutching wads of electric-green Grassroots Out leaflets . Some wander towards St. Mary 's Church , where a cardboard cutout of the Queen is propped up at the entrance to a royal birthday fete , others towards the High Street , where a Queen 's birthday street party is underway , complete with a clown . All trudge out happy , with the look in their eyes of people defending something huge -- an idea of England . <p> Ben Judah is a contributing writer atPOLITICO . Rachel Judah filmed and edited the videos included in this article . <p> &gt;https : **33;2848;TOOLONG ... Corbyn sink Labour at Oldham ? https : **32;2883;TOOLONG ... https : **39;2917;TOOLONG ... 01 Dec 2015 19:34:30 +0000https : //www.politico.eu/ ? posttype=artic ... Farage is in a very good mood . <p> " I 've got one slight worry , " he grins . " That if we win on Thursday and he goes as leader I 'll be devastated . " Then he sniggers . " It 's a joke . You can write it up as a joke . " <p> Giddy inside the dusty and dingy interior of Royton town hall , under a Victorian stucco-mold this place could never now afford , the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party is as buoyant as a birthday balloon . <p> UKIP leader Nigel Farage joins UKIP candidate for the Oldham by-election John Bickley in the town 's War Memorial <p> He waves his hands , and grins : thrilled . " This is not going back to Old Labour . Old Labour was led by people like Major Clement Atlee , Hugh Gaitskell and Jim Callaghan . They were intensely patriotic people . They really were . This guy , he 's a North London metropolitan elite . Supporting a whole range and series of ideas that I have n't personally heard since 1978 . " <p> Farage has a glint in his eye , like a betting man watching the odds shorten . All day his " Kippers " have been bringing him good news : UKIP is closing in on Labour . <p> UKIP is certain : This is the Corbyn effect . <p> " He 's just completely disconnected from genuine working Labour voters in constituencies like this . So in a sense ... he 's potentially ... a bit of a gift . " <p> Farage should not be in such a good mood . Oldham West and Royton has been as safe a Labour seat as they come for a generation : The recently deceased MP 's majority was over 14,700 votes . But Farage 's canvassers are reporting something very different ahead of an election for a new MP on Thursday . UKIP claim their own polling has them closing in with 35 percent of the vote to Labour 's 42 percent . <p> There might just be 2,000 votes in it . <p> " If we come 800 short , it 's another big ramp-up by UKIP , " smiles Farage . " And if we win by 200 on Thursday ... Who 's to say what 's possible . If we do it : The implications are huge . " <p> This is supposed to be Labour 's heartland . <p> What is going on ? <p> * * * <p> Rain , wind , and a defunct chimney are never far away . <p> George Orwell wrote that the first thing that hits you about the industrial North of England is the noise . The endless clatter and thud of the <p> mills , and the smell of sulfur . But today the first thing that hits you is the silence . <p> A view across Oldham and former cotton mills with Manchester on the horizon . <p> This is a Sunday , and the streets are empty . The occasional Muslim teenager in prayer robes and puffer jacket , pacing about bored and frustrated . <p> " It 's always like this , " said Mohammed Foolan . " Always . " <p> The constituency of Oldham West and Royton is made up of little towns in the Manchester sprawl , split up by roundabouts , scrublands and shuttered yards . Around a quarter of voters are Asian : ethnically Bangladeshi or Pakistani . <p> Outside the faded yesterday of the Oldham mall , on the crucial Sunday before polling day , I stand in the drizzle to ask 100 people one question -- who is Jeremy Corbyn ? <p> Farage has told me : " This election is the first barometer of British political life since May 's election . " <p> And the leader of UKIP is n't the only one thinking this . The " Westminster Bubble " is buzzing with excitement . This is the first test of Labour 's outstandingly different new leader . <p> " Who 's Jeremy Corbyn ? " <p> I find 42 people out of my 100 have no idea . " Not a clue " ; " No idea . " <p> The next 29 are hostile . Excited eyes tend to swell . " Knob , " is the most popular reply . " A bloody IRA loving scumbag and I would n't vote for him as long he 's got a hole in his ass , " spits Mark Pevsner . <p> The longer you spend in Oldham , the more scandal-obsessed Westminster feels irrelevant . At the tram stop into Manchester , I stand and ask people what they think of Seumas Milne , the chief Labour strategist who once chaired a panel at a propaganda event in Russia with Vladimir Putin . They do n't understand the question . But I find one man here excited that " Nick Farage " had hovered for a moment outside his shop , only to disappear . <p> The view down a classic northern back street as voters prepare to go to the polls in the Oldham West and Royton by-election <p> Oldham was once a rich town , a boomtown . In the 19th century this was England 's Shenzhen : With its thundering din of mills , it was the most productive cotton-spinning town in the world . Churning out more cotton a year than France and Germany combined . The last mill closed in 1998 . <p> All along the narrow redbrick , craggy terraces of the constituency there is festering resentment at the establishment . Not the Etonians in London , but the local Labour council . <p> In the North , there has been a one-party state in much of England since at least 1945 . Labour has run local government -- and this has made them the party of the council " caste . " <p> In Oldham the average salary is ? 17,000 . But Oldham council employs 25 people paid over ? 100,000 a year . Jim McMahon , the Labour head of the local council -- and the Labour party 's candidate for MP -- is paid ? 81,598 a year in taxpayers ' money and Labour party allowances . The chief executive earns ? 160,000 . <p> I join the UKIP canvassers . <p> Garbage bins are tipped over in the St. Mary 's estate , and plastic bags hang like strange flowers from the bushes as I go on the doorstep with UKIP 's canvassers . <p> " The most powerful line of attack we have is Labour are the overpaid one-party state " -- Jason Smith <p> I am following Jason Smith , a hypnotherapist from Bradford . <p> None of this team of UKIP canvassers are " Oldhamers . " <p> " The most powerful line of attack we have , " explains Smith , " is Labour are the overpaid one-party state . And they ca n't even pick up the bins . Look at this mess ! " <p> Sodden cardboard boxes and newspapers are scattered on the sidewalk . <p> In Oldham , where a taxi anywhere will cost little over ? 10 , the salary differential between those in local government and the rest makes them the elite . It also makes them rich . Labour men are buy-to-let landlords in the North : the late MP , Michael Meacher , left behind 11 houses . <p> Door after door opens to the UKIP canvassers , on to disillusion and resentment . This does not feel like a safe Labour seat , but one of the emerging UKIP marginals . <p> This is one representative sample from the doorstep . <p> " The sheep . They always voted Labour . They always voted for them as their granddad did . And Labour did nothing for us . Having fun in the council . And the sheep voted for them again and again . So they invested no money here . " <p> The elderly , long-haired respondent declined to give his name . <p> Roughly , out of 10 , the UKIP doorsteppers find five are non-voters who refuse point blank to talk politics . One will be a committed Labour supporter , usually due to cuts to welfare . Another will be solid UKIP , usually due to immigration . The rest are traditional Labour voters , tempted to think UKIP . <p> Nobody on the doorstep mentions Jeremy Corbyn . <p> " You really have to explain the basics , " says Smith . " That 's just canvassing . A lot of people do n't know very much . " <p> I trudge round metallic hangars and silent goods yards on to strips of newsagents and fast food . There are no Tories here . <p> The Conservative Party only won 19 percent of the vote here at the last election , coming third after UKIP . Quietly , the party is evaporating in much of the North . This allowed UKIP to come second to Labour in 34 seats in the North in May 's general election . <p> " What Thatcher did and what 's happening with austerity , " says Smith the Kipper , " has really killed the Tories up here . They 're seen as something for rich Southerners , really . " <p> A new YouGov poll is exciting UKIP : It now seems Labour has only retained 68 percent of those who voted for it the May election . <p> Bickley 's eyes scan an event of the People 's Army . This is a crowd of white , pinky faces , bald patches and glasses . But as soon as I note the absence of Asians -- in a seat where they make up some 25 percent of voters -- two minority Kippers enter . <p> Bickley , a former music and film businessman , gives me his take . <p> " Political tribalism , " he says , " used to suit those in power now for 70 years . And that 's how they have got away with murder . Labour 's ruled the North for 70 years now . That 's not democratic . That 's a one-party state . They 've never had to work for these votes here . " <p> The candidate is calm , 62 , but seems a little younger . He is tall , bluff and increasingly experienced . <p> " This is my fourth election in two years , " says Bickley . " We should n't be at the races but we are . This should be a safe Labour seat but it is n't . It 's increasingly looking like we 're going to come very close , like at the last by-election , where we came within 600 votes . " <p> But listening to Bickley 's speech , he does not sound like a man preparing for the House of Commons . A question from the crowd : What will you do if you win ? <p> " First , I 'll be a bit shocked , " is his reply . <p> A red-faced Kipper in the audience , in a tartan flat-cap , winces for a second : a little disappointed . <p> Nigel Farage takes to the podium . <p> He speaks at length , repeatedly making the point that UKIP is not a racist party but only for control of Britain 's borders . <p> Nigel Farage during the UK Independence Party annual conference <p> " A little Farage theory for you here . " <p> He fills the room like a caffeinated daytime TV presenter . <p> " Every pub is a parliament ! And I do n't think Jeremy Corbyn is the kind of man who has a regular boozer . " <p> After the laughs , the speech turns serious . <p> " We know that weak government , weak leadership , indeed by many of our churches , has led to the situation where we actually encourage multiculturalism and division within many of our towns and cities . We 've actually encouraged the growth of a parallel culture here , and the fact now that 80 percent of Muslim marriages take place outside of English civil law , I find it deeply , deeply worrying . " <p> Labour is seen by UKIP voters as the ethnic minority party . Those around me at the UKIP event were certain that Labour would only win " thanks to the Asian vote . " <p> I found a widespread belief amongst activists that clan-based , bloc-voting is pervasive in the roughly 25 percent Asian vote . <p> This occurrence has been extensively documented in seats with a similar demographic , including , infamously , Bradford . <p> " Well , clearly there are things happening with certain sections of the community here that should not be part of any normal democratic process , " Farage tells me after his speech , choosing his words very carefully . For the middle part of that sentence he puts on a voice to advertise the irony . <p> No sooner have I switched off the recorder than a local businessman , Imran Sarwar , approaches the UKIP leader . <p> " The Labour activists are going around , in the private meetings , saying that Muslims will be deported if UKIP wins and that UKIP is the civilized BNP British National Party . But I have come to hear you sir ... and this is not true sir . " <p> Farage grins awkwardly . <p> Afterwards , a photo circulates on Twitter , promoted heavily by UKIP , of the Labour Friends of Bangladesh visiting Oldham : It appears to be a gender-segregated meeting to get out the vote , with the men seated on one side and the women , many in headscarves , on the other . <p> UKIP have also distributed this leaflet : " How To Win An Election In Oldham . " One heading is unambiguous : " Count On The White Folk Not Voting : If you can rely on 800 votes from your family and friends in your community , you can win every time . " <p> In the 4 p.m. winter dark , I stand near the mosque asking those I could about this . Streetlamps streak the wet pavements with orange . I approach 15 Asian voters . All said biraderi -- " brotherhood " -- would influence a quarter to half of their votes . They declined to give their full names . <p> " It 's more like they go around saying , yeah , this is our guy , and we all need to vote for him , and he 's gon na do good stuff for us , " said Hassan . " But it 's weakening . People are getting more educated . People go yeah , yeah we 'll vote for him and do n't . Or they do n't vote . " <p> * * * <p> Victorian redbrick merges with welfare state rebrick , dotted with pubs where the locks have been taken off the toilets to keep the junkies out . Fog obscures the ends of long streets . <p> The meeting is heavily Asian , in contrast to UKIP 's extremely white feel . <p> How they vote in this obscure town on Thursday , a town that has long ceased to matter to Britain , might well decide if the Labour right mounts a coup against Jeremy Corbyn . <p> An outright UKIP win would show a white working-class flight from Labour in the North strong enough to scalp leading Labour MPs : Tristram Hunt , Ed Miliband , Yvette Cooper , Andy Burnham and Caroline Flint . Two-thirds of Labour members think Corbyn is doing " well . " But this fear of further loss could make them kill Corbyn . <p> At the Eastern Pavilion Banqueting Hall , a Pakistani-Bangladeshi establishment , under a florid glass chandelier , the left of the Labour Party is out in force . <p> The meeting is heavily Asian , in contrast to UKIP 's extremely white feel . <p> I put the question of " biraderi " votes to the news editor at Probash Bangla , the local bilingual English-Bengali newspaper . <p> " I think between a quarter and half of the votes in the community will directly or indirectly be influenced by the biraderi , " says Amin Babor Chowdhury . He then introduces me to Labour councilor Shoab Akhtar , who dismissed these concerns . <p> " That 's UKIP trying to sow the politics of division . " <p> I felt it impossible in Oldham to establish where rumor , prejudice and practice begin , blur into each other , and end . <p> UKIP think this by-election has come six months too early for the Corbyn effect to sink in . But so do Labour : too early for Jeremy Corbyn to transform the party . <p> What is happening here is a " Momentum " event . <p> * * * <p> Momentum is the campaign that propelled Corbyn to the leadership that has now re-launched itself as a " Labour-supporting " movement for the man they refer to , sweetly , as " Jeremy . " These activists dream of turning Labour into a movement , and a social support system -- like the Labour movement of old . Activists believe only this kind of politics , not tactical repositioning , can save Labour from its Northern decline . <p> They have bussed in 150 activists to fight to save Oldham . <p> The scene in the pavilion could not look more different from the UKIP gathering . I found twenty-something dreamers , singletons , odd-bods and the newly politicized . Wide-eyed people saying that Corbyn had switched them into thinking . <p> This movement is loathed by the old establishment : They believe it is a praetorian guard that will be used to oust anti-Corbyn MPs in re-selections , if they move on " Jeremy . " <p> Momentum 's spokesman denies this . <p> Those that take to the stage sound besieged . <p> " We 've got the establishment , we 've got the rightwing media , we 've got the leftwing media like the Guardian , all against us . But we 're gon na win this , " says the activist Rachel Harris over the microphone to the volunteers seated around snowdrop circular tables on the huge red carpet . <p> " The enemy that 's there . The media . The Ukippers . The Tories . They 're all in it together " -- Mohammed Azam , former Labour councilor <p> Why such speeches ? The tabloids have manufactured stories , and incited hysteria . The Sun claimed , for instance , that Corbyn had not bowed at the Cenotaph on Memorial Day . This has led Corbynites to think that all outrage at their leader is engineered hysteria . I find that the shrill anger of Corbyn 's Twitter supporters only reflects the shrill headlines they see . Corbynites , also , are pure products of tabloid culture . <p> The people I meet here do not believe that Corbyn 's views on the Falkland Islands , the Armed Forces , Hamas or , in the past , the IRA should pose a problem for them . <p> But as the Labour activists rise from their seats , tied with huge tissue bows , for the curry on offer , the scene feels more like a cheap wedding than a Northern political rally . <p> Then the Labour bigwigs speak . <p> " The enemy that 's there . The media . The Ukippers . The Tories . They 're all in it together , " said Mohammed Azam , a former councilor who was on the shortlist to run for MP . <p> Labour candidate Jim McMahon gives a television interview at the party 's campaign center <p> The curry 's nearly gone . Jim McMahon , the candidate , pledges his allegiance to Corbyn . Then the star of the social : the shadow chancellor . <p> John McDonnell , like a nervous uncle , rises to the stage in front of wall of lacy white curtains and artfully placed snow-white dressing tables . <p> " Winning for Labour is important , defeating UKIP is just as important as well . We can not allow what I think is an evil force in our society . " <p> Soft red neon glows over the shadow chancellor 's head . <p> " The establishment is there . It 's not a myth . It 's been rough because they 've thrown everything against us in the media . " <p> As he chastises " a regime that is still occupying Tibet , " I wonder if he has thought through the consequences for the press but also for the Chinese Embassy as Labour now questions its territorial integrity . <p> But McDonnell just sounds more hurt and suspicious , upset that the Twitter din drowned out the discussion on alternative economic strategies he wants to have . <p> The rolling attacks on the media continue . <p> " We 've had everything thrown against us and we 're still standing -- and next Thursday we 'll demonstrate we can win elections as well . " <p> Listening to the shadow chancellor it is easy to forget that the Daily Mail had recently published an unsourced splash feature claiming the prime minister had inserted " a private part of his anatomy " into a dead pig whilst at university . <p> " The media will try and rip us apart on this . They 'll go to individual disgruntled MPs that condemn Jeremy or sow division within the party . We 've got to rise above that . We 've got to respect people 's views in the party . Dissent is part and parcel of this new democracy . " <p> The buses begin lining up outside . The activists are soon gone . <p> But one thing is already clear : If Labour lose in Oldham , or only scrape by , Jeremy Corbyn 's closest ally thinks the media not the messenger should get the blame . <p> Ben Judah is a contributing writer for POLITICO . His new book " This Is London : Life and Death in The World City " is out in January 2016 . <p> This article was updated to clarify the source of the local Labour leader 's salary . <p> &gt;https : **33;2958;TOOLONG ... successorshttps : **29;2993;TOOLONG ... https : **39;3024;TOOLONG ... 22 Jul 2015 03:53:01 +0000https : //www.politico.eu/ ? posttype=artic ... -- If you listen carefully to the Tory mutterings over the fork-clanking plates around you in the heavily subsidized cafeterias of the Palace of Westminster , three names seem to come up in a loop : George Osborne , Boris Johnson and Theresa May . Or if you listen close enough , the talk is of who 's up and who 's down of the three top Tories vying to succeed David Cameron . <p> The British prime minister has promised not to run for a third term and has hinted he is keen to let his successor have at least two years in Number Ten before the next election in 2020 . They may just have won their first majority since 1992 , but already Tory minds are drifting to the coming skirmishes for the crown . <h> George Osborne <p> Not so long ago , the prospect of this porcelain-faced aristocrat succeeding Cameron was laughed off even by his most senior colleagues . Yet the man who will one day be the 18th Baronet Osborne has now emerged as his most likely successor . Few would have imagined this in 2012 , when the chancellor was in such pits of unpopularity that he was even jeered by the crowds at the London Paralympics . But three years can be an epoch in British politics . Craftily pushed forward by Cameron as the face of his drastic cuts to an aggrieved public , Osborne is now something of a hero among Tory MPs . <p> George Osborne just before presenting the budget to British parliament EPA <p> What do Tory insiders think ? Tim Montgomerie , a fellow at the Legatum Institute , has been called the most influential Conservative outside the cabinet . " Osborne would have been finished if Cameron had lost the General Election , " says Montgomerie . " Now that Cameron has won the election so decisively , and it was Osborne who was decisive in getting election strategist Lynton Crosby involved , Osborne 's star is in the ascendance . " <p> Osborne 's first moves back in office have much boosted his image . He has affixed his name to the boldest and most popular new policies . " With what we are doing , " said one Tory source , " there should be nuclear-alarm sirens going off inside Labour as we remake the country in our image . They have n't even heard our bulldozers , it seems . We are going to remake this party as the party of anyone who works : and leave Labour the subsidized rest . " <p> Osborne is one of the most , if not the most , successful cabinet member . He 's stolen ground from his opponents , like all successful leaders of the past . <p> Osborne 's recent budget was a huge PR success , with his slashing of benefits to poorer Britons sold under a compelling slogan : " The National Living Wage . " This renaming and raising of the minimum wage to a level above what Labour had promised in the election has seen him steal one of the left 's most successful slogans of recent years , that of the " Living Wage Campaign . " <p> David Skelton is the head of Renewal , a Conservative group that has long campaigned for the party to take the direction Osborne has now chosen . " What this is about , " says Skelton , " is making the Conservative Party the real workers ' party , the party of work . What we see picked up in the budget is that the party is now campaigning for higher wages , decent jobs , living wage , and a home of your own . It 's redefining the party 's sense of aspiration : it 's not just becoming a tycoon , it 's getting on a bit , too . " <p> Osborne is now the champion of the so-called Northern Powerhouse , a catchy , almost Victorian slogan that describes a project that will tie together the poorer cities of the north of England and give them more autonomy . This devolution project could well be the government 's greatest legacy , as well as a cunning ploy to win over the Labour heartlands to the Tory side . <p> " Osborne is one of the most , if not the most , successful cabinet member , " says Skelton , " In terms of dictating the agenda . Labour is simply clueless in how to respond to the budget . He 's stolen ground from his opponents , like all successful leaders of the past , just like Blair , Disraeli , or Macmillan . The important thing to remember here is that Labour 's emotional link to the working class has gone . What happened in Scotland , where Labour collapsed like a house of playing cards , could happen in the north of England , too . This is why they are running scared of the new budget . " <p> Osborne 's ascendance is as much the result of patronage as policy . He has promoted his former aides to high positions -- Sajid Javid is now the business secretary , Robert Halfon the deputy chairman of the Conservative Party , Matthew Hancock cabinet office minister , and Greg Hands the chief secretary to the Treasury . They are now part of a strong Osborne faction at the height of government , including energy secretary Amber Rudd , education secretary Nicky Morgan and local government secretary Greg Clark . Osborne is said to have a loyal clique of MPs ready to support him too , prepared for any eventual leadership bid . MPs closely linked to the chancellor have at times included Claire Perry , Gavin Barwell , and Jane Ellison . There are rumors -- ones that Osbornites love conveying in Westminster cafeterias -- that the universities and science minister Jo Johnson , the brother of Boris , is more of an Osbornite than a Borisite . <p> " I think both Boris and George are both fairly pragmatic , " says Montgomerie of Legatum . " I think they are both fairly liberal in their conservative politics . I always say there are three legs to compassionate conservatism and those are increasing employment , improving education and strengthening the family . Neither of them is much interested in that last leg . For all the talk of differences between the leading figures , we have seen a remarkable coming together around One Nation Conservatism since the election . This is social justice politics , but a very , very different kind from that of Labour . " <p> What could trip up the future baronet on his way to the top ? Europe and the economy . Should Britain 's recovery falter , or a new , terrifying financial crisis erupt out of a break-up of the eurozone , he will be first to suffer politically . Barring Grexit , Osborne 's biggest challenge is preventing a Brexit . As Cameron 's partner in politics , he has no room for maneuver on the forthcoming ' In/Out ' referendum . Calamity on the continent could easily humiliate the chancellor with a narrowly won -- or even lost -- referendum . <h> Boris Johnson <p> " The Mayor of London was for many years , " said one Tory source , " quite literally the King over the Water . David Cameron was unpopular in Downing Street with the Liberal Democrats in uncomfortable coalition , and Boris was popular over the Thames in City Hall as the Mayor of London . But that ship may now have sailed . " <p> Boris Johnson poses for a photograph during the 2015 U.K. general election campaign EPA <p> Boris 's friends say he has a romantic streak , backing exciting and catchy policies regardless of whether they are feasible or cost-efficient . Boris 's causes have at one time or another included " Boris Island , " a new mega-airport in the Thames estuary ; cycling ; an amnesty for illegal immigrants ; Euroskepticism ; a " living wage " for workers on minimum pay ; and " the moral case for capitalism . " <p> Boris 's enemies say he is simply an attention-seeking opportunist , who latches onto whatever cause he thinks will make headlines . <p> " He only had popularity to offer , " said one party source . " But now Cameron and Osborne have proved themselves election winners , that is no longer so attractive . The further the Labour party implodes , the less Boris we need . " <p> Boris is popular , but more amongst party members and activists than MPs . There is no Boris faction , really , in the parliamentary party . <p> Things were going brilliantly for Boris until things turned out brilliantly for the party in the elections . With polls predicting a hung parliament , there was disillusion in the ranks and panic in the Tory press that the Conservatives would need to immediately crown an election winner -- i.e. hail Boris as Tory leader . <p> Boris is popular , but more amongst party members and activists than MPs . There is no Boris faction , really , in the parliamentary party . A few isolated Tory MPs , such as Victoria Borwick in Kensington , owe him their careers . But his causes are too vague , and disparate , to generate a tight-knit faction . " Lots of people support Boris for different vague reasons , " said one party source . " But nobody interested in a promotion would boast of it now with Osborne rising . " <p> His rivals are now hounding Boris on his causes : Osborne used his recent budget speech to make jokes at the mayor 's expense over the planned expansion of Heathrow Airport . This led to a flurry of speculation that the chancellor , a Heathrow-expansion supporter , would push for it to humiliate Boris , who once swore to resign if it happened . Theresa May , the home secretary , then seemed to follow up with a real attack , blocking the mayor from deploying expensive water cannons he had purchased for London . As photos of the stunned mayor circulated online , the cleverness of the attack sunk in . Not only was it a simple power play , it also framed him as a financially irresponsible authoritarian . <p> The poll of party members by the activist blogging platform Conservative Home has caught the dimming of Boris 's star . Whereas before the election Boris had a 4% lead over his nearest Osbornite rival , Sajid Javid , this was now down to 0.2% when members were asked who they thought Cameron 's successor should be . The mutterings in the parliamentary party point to a more serious decline . Johnson was judged -- even by himself -- as a rather disappointing and ineffective MP before he stood down and renewed his fortunes as mayor of London . Now that he is back in the House and wrapping up his mayoral stint , the hiss is back behind him in the Commons . <p> " I 'm sure that Boris would have become leader if the Tories had lost the election , " says Montgomerie . " It 's not an ideal circumstance for him now . But he 's still in it . We have a bad tendency to read things in contemporary politics in apocalyptic terms . We over-read and over-analyze every trend . I think shares in Boris are being undersold at the moment . " <p> What are Boris 's options ? For all Osborne 's power and influence , the prime minister is still David Cameron . It is he who has the final say over appointments . We will only know how far the Boris star has fallen depending on what position he is offered in cabinet . <p> Should Boris be snubbed , he has a very clear option -- he could become the leader of the ' out brigade ' and try to defeat Osborne and Cameron as Greece implodes . This is not seen by the Nostradamuses in the tea-rooms as very likely : the mayor has rarely gone for brutal all-or-nothing fights . He declined to comment for this article on his differences with the chancellor and his future plans . <h> Theresa May <p> What of the Tory Right ? Both Johnson and Osborne are liberal -- one could say they are London Tories . Osborne 's loyal biographer Janan Ganesh once described his views as more The Economist -- i.e. not those of the right-wing Daily Telegraph . Both are more or less relaxed about membership of the EU , mass immigration , and shirk from the streak of Protestant morality that ran through Thatcherism . This can not be said for the rest of the party and its base , which often grumbles that the real England is left behind . <p> Theresa May gives a speech on migration in May 2015 EPA <p> The main division within the Conservative Party now is between those who are supportive of David Cameron 's -- and thus Osborne 's -- mostly cosmetic renegotiation of Britain 's terms of EU membership and those who want to campaign for an ' Out ' in the coming referendum . But it is not the only one . Many on the Tory Right also feel the government is not doing enough to clamp down on radical Islam , and are quietly alarmed by the changing ethnic composition of England 's cities . The Euroskeptic right is currently lacking a youthful , dynamic leader , but is still expected to put forward an eventual leadership candidate . In the absence of that , Theresa May is sometimes discussed as an eventual candidate for the right . Neither the heir to a baronetcy nor an Etonian , she appeals to another kind of conservative . <p> " I think she stands for a much more hawkish conservatism on security and immigration , " says Montgomerie . " I think there 's not a massive difference between Boris and George on those issues . But she 's a real exception to that . It 's not just that it 's her brief , it 's that it 's her conviction . She 'll have a much more distinctive pitch . Shares in her are being undersold . They are all contenders and writing anyone off at this stage is a big mistake . There 's a long , long way to go . " <p> &gt;https : **33;3065;TOOLONG ... leftists turn anti-EU over Greecehttps : **33;3100;TOOLONG ... https : **39;3135;TOOLONG ... 08 Jul 2015 16:18:40 +0000https : //www.politico.eu/ ? posttype=artic ... Labour Party campaigned as the party of Brussels in the May elections -- and was thumped by Tory Prime Minister David Cameron . <p> Now defeated , disorientated , and internally divided as its lengthy leadership race drags on , many Labour MPs and influential leftwing figures are toying with Euroskepticism , appalled by the way the EU has handled the crisis in Greece . <p> " There has been abject complacency amongst pro-Europeans on the left , " said Claude Moraes , a Labour MEP and head of the European Parliament 's justice and home affairs committee . " Grassroots Labour support for Europe is quite strong . But it 's being massively tested by the austerity narrative , which is austerity does n't work and what 's happening is destroying Greece . " <p> Just a couple of months ago , the main pitch of the now former Labour leader Ed Miliband to business was that he would not hold an in/out referendum on the U.K. 's EU membership . But Miliband , now a much-reduced figure but still an MP , took to Twitter to express his frustration over Greece despite doubts over Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras . <p> ( ... ) bullying and denial of need for debt restructuring by eurozone flies in face of views of IMF , US Administration , economics and democracy ( ... ) <p> " Very troubling to see eurozone actions over last week , " tweeted Miliband . " Tsipras tactics very odd . But bullying and denial of need for debt restructuring by eurozone flies in face of views of IMF , US Administration , economics and democracy . " <p> Those MPs gunning to replace Miliband or take top positions within the party were not so restrained . <p> Jeremy Corbyn , a hard-left MP running with unexpected strength for Labour leadership , has called the EU an organization , " that continues to pursue its central goal of being a place where big business has free rein to operate . " <p> As the results came in from Greece 's Sunday referendum he tweeted : " The people of Greece have spoken , austerity has failed them and Europe must recognize this and end the human suffering . " <p> Diane Abbott , a left-wing MP running for selection as Labour candidate for mayor of London , also tweeted her anger at the EU : " If Greek people have voted No in referendum , they will have successfully resisted a crude attempt at regime change by EU ? #CancelGreekDebt . " <p> This creeping disgust at the actions of Brussels and Berlin in Greece is also shared by those on the right of the party . <p> John Mann , an MP , tweeted : " Looks like Greece has stood and been counted with a huge NO vote . High time the EU fantasists had a reality check . " <p> Beyond Labour , the former leader of the anti-austerity Scottish National Party Alex Salmond ( who once advocated for an independent Scotland to join the euro ) tweeted : " Well done to the people of Greece . European leaders should now respond constructively to the democratic voice of the Greek people . " <p> Left-wing intellectuals are also indignant over Greece . <p> Owen Jones , a campaigning journalist and Labour-supporting activist with a large following made a video -- replete with anti-European Central Bank imagery -- saying he wanted to open a debate on whether the left should remain committed to the EU : " I ca n't possibly imagine myself in the forthcoming in/out referendum campaigning for the EU as it stands . " <p> Other activists seemed to agree , posting on social media that they would be ready to campaign for Brexit if the EU " destroys Greece . " <p> London-based intellectuals with sway over left-wing opinion such as the academic David Graeber , a key figure in the anti-capitalist US Occupy Movement , tweeted : " Jeroen Dijsselbloem head of the Eurogroup insisting more Greek citizens die rather than admit austerity failed , is literally a murderer . " <p> Labour now has its own Euroskeptic group , Labour for Britain . The Greek crisis has hardened their views . <p> Now the euro is a straitjacket and the Greek people are told they have no choice but austerity with no end in sight ( ... ) <p> " It is now clear that the guiding objective of those running the EU is the preservation of their ' project ' at the expense of economic and human suffering , " said co-chair Kate Hoey . " Now the euro is a straitjacket and the Greek people are told they have no choice but austerity with no end in sight . I salute the courage of the Greek nation in voting ' NO ' to the EU 's conditions . " <p> The shift is actually a return to Labour 's roots ; it has not always been a pro-EU party . <p> " It 's a myth to suggest there has always been consensus on the left over the EU , " said Ellie O'Hagan , activist and analyst from the Center for Labour and Social Studies , which is funded by Britain 's trade union movement . " It 's true that the liberal left has always advocated for the European project , but many influential figures who align more with socialism than liberalism are opposed to it . " <p> This memory is now buried ; one of the many legacies of Tony Blair 's " New Labour . " But in 1983 , the party campaigned in the general election to leave the then European Community , and in 1975 during a special party congress delegates voted 2-1 to withdraw from the European Community , which the U.K. had joined two years earlier . <p> That dormant tendency to see the European Union as a tool of neo-liberal economics may now be returning . <p> " The events in Greece have no doubt emboldened the anti-EU left to be more emphatic about its position , " explained O'Hagan , " and have probably won around many on the left who were not staunchly opposed to the EU but could also appreciate the flaws of the project from a left-wing perspective . " <p> The leader of Yesh Atid , a centrist Israeli party , Lapid was previously finance minister and is now in opposition . The name of his party , somewhat mournfully , means " There is a future . " With Benyamin Netanyahu 's ruling coalition a fragile thing , Lapid 's allies are bullish he is the next kingmaker -- making or breaking " Bibi " or the next prime minister . Maybe more . <p> Lapid 's enemies are , naturally , not so charitable . They say that he is part of a generation of weak , dithering , leaders who are the opposite of the Zionist heroes who built Israel : one of the men who were unable to save it from breakdown . They see in his failure , the failure of secular Israel to wrest back power from the settlers and the rabbis . <p> Lapid , a former TV anchor , heads a faction of 11 MPs . He is now traveling the world as a sort of alternative foreign minister for the " other Israel . " <p> " I believe I speak for most Israelis , " says Lapid , " when I say , on the one hand , we are true believers in the return to Zion , and on the other that we understand that the two-state solution is the only solution to maintain Israel as a democracy and a Jewish state . " <p> But why does Netanyahu 's Israel seem paralyzed -- and when it comes to the Palestinians , immobile ? <p> Sitting at a round table covered in half-eaten pastrami sandwiches and ripped open ready-to-eat couscous pots , Lapid sits with his back to the glinting River Thames in a back room of the British Parliament , as if he 'd always been there . <p> " Listen , " says Lapid , " You have to understand . In order to have a two-state solution you need to withdraw from big chunks of territory . This is evacuating tens of thousands of settlers , tens of thousands of law-abiding Israelis from their homes . This will be as difficult as the 1948 war and the establishment of the state of Israel . " <p> This , the great uprooting of the hilltop colonies , and the breaking of a whole fundamentalist strain of Judaism that thrives there , is what both Lapid and Netanyahu claim they want : the price for peace with the Palestinian Authority . But it is also what the last Likud-led coalition government ( 2013-2015 ) they both served in failed to achieve , despite a U.S.-sponsored peace round . <p> " My deepest fear , " says Lapid , " is we will not find the power inside ourselves to separate from the Palestinians . That is if you ask me what is the thing we really need . And that is to do with governance . The ability of the Israeli government to really lead , and do things we like less . It is not leading from behind . It is leading from the front . And that we will not be capable of this as a nation -- that is what frightens me the most . " <p> * * * <h> What kind of a politician is Yair Lapid ? <p> Speaking earlier this month at the Herzliya Conference , an annual security jamboree , Israel 's puffy-faced President Reuven Rivlin sounded glum as he made a PowerPoint presentation . <p> " In reality , " boomed Rivlin , " Israeli society is divided into four population sectors , or if you will , four principal tribes . ... Whether we like it or not , the make up of the ' stakeholders ' of the state of Israel , and Israeli society is changing before our eyes . " <p> The room was hushed , worried , staring at the president 's slides showing the changing demographics of Israeli children , divided into what Rivlin called " the tribes . " <p> " When I showed these slides to a senior business executive , " tremored Rivlin , " he screamed . " <p> " Each tribe also has its own towns , " said Rivlin . " Tel Aviv is the town of one tribe , just as Umm el Fahm is the town of another , as is Efrat , and Bnei Brak . Each represents the town of a different tribe . In the State of Israel the basic systems that form people 's consciousness are tribal and separate , and will most likely remain so . " <p> Yair Lapid is a new kind of Israeli politician , who can only be understood as an operator in this tribal society . <p> * * * <h> " Where 's the money ? " <p> This was Yair Lapid 's slogan as he stormed into politics in 2012 . It was simple , and stunningly effective . <p> " What I am about , " says Lapid , " is equality of burden . " <p> His party Yesh Atid won a shock 19 seats at the 2013 elections , making it the second largest after Likud . The voters were from his tribe -- the super-taxed Tel Aviv middle class that feels that it alone is supporting the ruinously expensive , ultra-orthodox " yeshiva world , " and the national-religious " kingdom of settlements . " <p> Lapid brought a shiver of optimism in the gay-friendly coffee shops near the old Yemenite market of Tel Aviv : But this quickly evaporated when he joined the Netanyahu coalition and formed what he called " the brothers alliance " with the far-right settler leader Naftali Bennett to draft the ultra-orthodox in the IDF . <p> " He 's still a friend , " says Lapid . <p> The government eventually did manage to pass legislation promising the eventual enlistment of ultra-orthodox Jews . <p> But it is wildly seen as a failure by Lapid 's voters for overseeing the 2014 war in Gaza and failed peace talks . It was also a failure for Lapid : " Bibi " sacked him and called new elections , shrinking his party to 11 seats . <p> Why did Lapid choose to work with the national-religious " tribe " ? <p> " I 'm actually in a bit of pain , " says Lapid , " that this has failed . I felt I wanted to make an alliance with this kind of modern Judaism and the modern orthodox Jews in Israel . I thought this alliance could be very productive for the good of the country -- and it would be living proof we could share ideas and goals , secular and religious people combined . And it failed . " <p> Demographically , a Zionist politician like Lapid may soon have little choice when seeking a national mandate , as the ultra-orthodox and Arab minorities grow . <p> " I think the reason this alliance with the modern orthodox Jews failed is they still think like a minority of society , and not a part of society . For me it was a painful process to give up on this idea . " <p> Talking in London , Lapid is , however , optimistic , that his party has pushed through enough changes to avoid the nightmare scenario for Tel Aviv liberals : where Israel 's secular suburbia cracks politically under the weight of both technologically illiterate ultra-orthodox millions and a distrusted Israeli Arab population , now over 20 percent . <p> Israeli Arabs were predicted in the 1960s to outnumber Israeli Jews by 1990 . However , the minority ( some of whom prefer to call themselves Palestinian citizens of Israel ) has crept only slightly over 20 percent since that date . <p> I think the idea of community service for the Arabs is a fantastic idea <p> " I think the idea of community service for the Arabs is a fantastic idea , " says Lapid , " and I support this . " <p> The 2015 election saw a first-ever Joint ( Arab ) List win 13 seats in the Israeli parliament . Could they be allies against the occupation ? <p> " Never say never , but a coalition with the Joint Arab List would be very difficult , " says Lapid . " I want a coalition that could legitimately withdraw settlements , and you need a very strong Jewish majority for that . " <p> Israeli Arab birthrates have collapsed , from 9.2 children per Muslim women in the 1960s to 3.4 in 2014 . <p> Ultra-orthodox Jews , now nearly 10 percent of the population , worry men like Lapid : Their birth rate is 6.5 . This means by 2069 they could be 27 percent of Israel 's population . However , he is optimistic they can be better integrated . <p> " A country is a big ship , " says Lapid . " The fact that we the last government he served in have implemented math and computers in ultra-orthodox schools is going to have an impact in 10-15 years . Politicians are expected to provide immediate results on deep demographic and social trends . We did n't fail . " <p> The widely believed mantra that ultra-orthodox men are neither Zionist nor workers , preferring to study in the great Torah academies of Israel , is no longer quite true . Polling suggests roughly half both work and consider themselves Zionists . <p> " The ultra-orthodox , " says Lapid , " are being drafted in growing numbers . They are trying to get rid of this law as the ultra-orthodox are now in government . But we are going to fight this in Parliament and the Supreme Court . " <p> Israeli society may not be as demographically doomed as charts of exploding ultra-orthodox numbers suggests . These faith-based communities feel weak , even collapsing , from the inside , as the Internet has wormed its way into every home inside what was once a sealed world in the slums of Bnei Brak and the winding alleys of Jerusalem . The great Rabbis are dying , and their successors have a frailer grip over their communities . Slowly , rebel strands , wanting to participate more in society are emerging . <p> But so , too , are the dangers of a society of hundreds of thousands of " drop-outs " from the ultra-orthodox world , highly vulnerable and nearly illiterate in modern life . The Jewish fanatics who immolated the Palestinian boy Mohammed Abu Khdeir in July 2014 were exactly that . <p> For now , the Yair Lapid story in politics is not an optimistic one . It is the story of how his " tribe " in Tel Aviv was outplayed by Netanyahu , settlers and rabbis . His attempt to grab the levers of statehood for the middle class has failed : The new coalition has ultra-orthodox parties controlling the all-powerful finance committee and interior ministries . They are now pushing to gut , and even scrap , his crowning achievement -- IDF enlistment for the ultra-orthodox . <p> " My movement will not fail , " says Lapid . " The current government gives no hope . " <p> His nightmare is fiscal : If low work-rates for ultra-orthodox Jews and mega-subsidies for yeshiva and settlers continue , Israel 's national debt will spiral from 67 percent of GDP to 170 percent over 50 years . <p> * * * <p> Shoving , and pushing , outside on London 's Parliament square , a score of anti-Zionist activists are protesting the visit of the Israeli opposition to Westminster . <p> " Europe , of course , " says Lapid , " is not the leading power . It 's not the 1920s anymore . The United States is the leading power . And even in the United States , there 's no Wilson Doctrine anymore that tells them we need to implement some views in the world . " <p> Lapid shrugs , and continues . <p> We live in an era when states in general are simply less capable of decisive action <p> " We live in an era when states in general are simply less capable of decisive action . In a world of extremely rapid technological change , countries tend to be more preoccupied by internal changes , which are complicated enough as they are . " <p> There is a growing sense in Israel that we will never see the same old peace photo again -- that of a smiling U.S. president , with an Israeli and Palestinian leader shaking hands on the White House lawn . <p> " I 'm not discriminating against anyone , " says Lapid . " I could enter into a coalition with the Likud , or with the Labour Party . But as long as they agree with these guidelines : We want a stronger government , a change in the electoral system , and moving towards a regional summit where we can separate from the Palestinians . " <p> The regional summit , which Netanyahu hinted he favors , would see a suited Israeli prime minister having his " peace photo " taken with some very different characters : the white-robed Gulf sheikhs . This once unthinkable photo is now being made possible , because the common enemy of these once-sworn foes is Iran . <p> " This is a means to an end , " says Lapid . " We think this summit is the most effective way that will allow us to separate from the Palestinians . But we will only accede to it if we have the very strict security arrangements we need . There should be milestones . First , the settlers shall go and the soldiers will stay . If we see the Palestinians are keeping their agreements , we can begin to withdraw some of the soldiers . Then there will be international presence . " <p> Why does it have to be like this ? <p> " You have to remember the recent Israeli trauma , " says Lapid . " We did what every liberal in the world wanted us to do , which was withdraw from Gaza . And we left and went , ' OK you can do whatever you want . ' And instead of building hospitals and schools they built training camps for the Islamic Jihad and started firing Qassam missiles on civilians in Israel . So we are entitled to be traumatized . The bottom line is this : We need an assurance that the Palestinian state does not and can not become a base for firing rockets on the citizens of Israel . " <p> However , to the despair of " peaceniks , " Lapid rules out forming one party list with the Labour party , which together would easily beat Likud to being top party . <p> " No , " says Lapid . " They are a left-wing party . We are a centrist party . And we are very different on the core issues on what we think Israel should be . So -- no , no . " <p> Would he ever enter a coalition with " Bibi " again ? <p> " I find it hard to believe , " says Lapid . " But never say never . I 'm not going to sit in this government . But I do n't want to boycott people . " <p> The looped footage beaming into British homes and smartphones of the chaotic protests in Athens and the bureaucratic deadlock in Brussels worries pro-European forces that the crisis is effectively paving the way for a Brexit . <p> " The Brexit camp believe fundamentally that the EU does n't work and its members should leave . Greece makes their case , " said Denis MacShane , a former U.K. minister for Europe . " They are gloating in exultation right now . The conservative politicians leading the EU have behaved liked 18th-century surgeons -- bleeding the patient -- and have done huge damage to the EU reputation in the U.K. " <p> As a heat wave has gripped London , leaving Britain 's forever-suited politicians and lobbyists sweating and red in the face , the chatter in Britain 's musty old imperial parliament was little interested in Greek implications for European stability . Instead , it was focused on What It All Means for the Prime Minister 's promised referendum . <p> " This is in an image disaster for the pro-EU campaign , " said Charles Grant , director of the Centre for European Reform , a think-tank at the heart of the pro-Brussels network of politicians and lobbyists in Westminster . <p> " If Cameron wants to win a referendum , " warned Grant , " he needs the EU 's image to be positive . Grexit makes the EU look like it is every man for himself , run by incompetent leaders who do n't understand economics , who failed to save the euro , which was a mad invention anyway . " <p> In the Westminster political dictionary , one of the dirtiest , and most essential words to grasp about what is going on is " spin , " the PR tactics that are used to win political debates . Nowhere is this more effective than when it comes into play in complex economic debates that are n't easily understood , such as Greece 's fiscal agony . <h> Spinning the Grexit <p> Britain 's emerging In campaign , centered on the pressure group Business for New Europe , is hoping to focus voters ' minds on how a Brexit is just as dangerous as a Grexit . <p> " This cuts both ways , " says Lucy Thomas , the group 's campaign director . " Instability around Greece makes it clear just how important it is for countries to stick together rather than splintering apart . That applies to Britain too . " <p> By contrast , the Out brigade , for now , has more to run with . <p> Rory Broomfield , director of the Better Off Out campaign , dismisses any comparison of a Grexit calamity to Brexit . " Irrelevant , irrelevant , and no , " he said . <p> " A so-called Brexit is different to Grexit . The U.K. is in a completely different situation . Britain is the fifth largest economy in the world and exports more to the rest of the world than the eurozone . It wo n't just survive , it will thrive . " <p> Matthew Elliot , director of Business for Britain , a Euroskeptic pressure group , is known in Westminster as one of the most ferocious anti-EU campaigners . He is widely expected to lead an eventual Out campaign and believes the Greek crisis undermines the big hitters on ' Team In . ' <p> " The key way in which Grexit will affect the Brexit debates , " said Elliot , " is the fact that it will further reduce the credibility of business leaders , such as Sir Richard Branson , who supported Britain 's entry to the euro and say Britain should stay in the EU at all costs . " <p> Elliot already knows exactly how the Out campaign will deploy old clips of the front men for the In campaign passionately arguing for the UK to join the eurozone . <h> Gloom and elation <p> " All those quotes predicting doom and gloom for Britain if we did n't join the euro , " said Elliot , " are on file , and will be repeatedly dug up when the same people predict catastrophe if Britain leaves the EU . They were wrong then and they are wrong now . " <p> Not everyone in the the Palace of Westminster is happy with the U.K. 's hardening isolationism . <p> " The EU currently faces enormous challenges , " lamented Jo Cox , a newly elected Labour MP , " from the tragic migrants crisis in the Med to a resurgent Russia and the ongoing turmoil in Greece . All of which highlights just how badly we need to reform the way Europe cooperates and operates . But we have a prime minister looking to rearrange the deckchairs solely to make sure the awkward squad in his party have their place in the sun . " <p> Amongst Cameron 's awkward squad , an electric , nearly joyous feeling has taken hold as the Greek knot tightens . Daniel Hannan , a leading anti-EU Tory MEP , has tweeted prolifically , posting images of Greek partisans resisting the Germans , and Byron supporting the rising against the Ottomans . <p> " 70 years ago , " tweeted Hannan , " Greeks were a by-word for heroic resistance . Are they still the people they were ? " Meanwhile , Douglas Carswell , the one MP of the United Kingdom Independence Party , known as UKIP , tweeted as if Grexit were the Wimbledon finals : " Anyone know the betting odds being offered on Greek referendum . " <p> As Angela Merkel has warned , with an apolcalyptic pathos that " If the euro fails , Europe fails . " <p> George Osborne , the U.K. 's finance minister , for his part , has chosen to warn British tourists that they must take enough cash with them to cover their entire holiday in Greece . Britain exports two million tourists to Greece every summer : And there was muttering in Westminster that these Brits-in-the-sun might come to offer their votes to Brexit should they have a terrible time on holiday . <p> " I think the tourists could go either way , " said Andrew Duff , a former Liberal Democrat MEP , and pro-EU campaigner . " On one hand the tourists could see the awful chaos caused by the electoral populist-nationalism of Syriza and come back wanting to get out of the EU . On the other hand , their experiencing this chaos in the eurozone during a Grexit might make the Brits come back wanting to stay in . We 'll have to wait until they fly home . " <p> &gt;https : **33;3176;TOOLONG ... hard sellhttps : **35;3211;TOOLONG ... Wed , 24 Jun 2015 14:36:00 +0000https : //www.politico.eu/ ? posttype=artic ... -- David Cameron has been playing the expectation game about Britain 's relationship with the European Union . <p> Ahead of the two-day European Council summit starting Thursday in Brussels , the U.K. prime minister is talking out of one side of his mouth to restive members of the British Parliament , while out of the other he is downplaying the importance of the summit . <p> Instead of formal demands , Cameron and British diplomats are expected to detail a series of ideas on sovereignty , competitiveness , fairness , and migration and welfare , which will leave them space to maneuver on the renegotiation . <p> " This is about opening the door to the process , " said Raoul Ruparel , co-director of the think-tank Open Europe . His predecessor , Mats Persson , is now Cameron 's special advisor on Europe . <p> EU officials have equally bland hopes . <p> The matter will be discussed over dinner Thursday " to decide what the timeframe and how the process should be organized in the few months to come , " said one official , who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the press . " We will not have a big debate on this . Cameron has contacted everyone . " <p> POLITICO understands that European Council President Donald Tusk and his team will play a direct role in the negotiations from the start . They will work alongside the Commission , which announced Wednesday that Jonathan Faull , a British eurocrat respected across borders and party lines , will take on a new director-general position leading the Commission 's efforts on the U.K. renegotiations as of September 1 . <p> So , with Britain 's PM deliberately giving himself as flexible a negotiating position as possible , what do his aides really want ? And how likely are they to get it ? <p> Cameron is widely expected to ask for safeguards for countries that do n't use the common euro currency . <p> " Cameron will also push on competiveness , which is what the Commission is already doing , " Ruparel said . <p> Britain , on the flipside , is also expected to endorse what Brussels is already working on : the push for a digital single market , new investment vehicles and an EU-wide energy union . <p> Cameron is also expected to call for accelerating EU free-trade negotiations , especially the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the U.S. <p> There is confidence in London that the message and approach will go down well , and optimism that -- with the recent elections won by the center-right in Finland , Denmark and Poland -- the Brits have new allies . <p> But not all is working so well . <p> London is also expected to ask for changes curbing EU migrants ' access to benefits in the U.K. , a seemingly humble policy demand that hits at a core EU principle of free movement . Cameron 's demand might require treaty change . <p> " Its ' proving a hard sell , " Ruparel said . <p> Poland , a leading exporter of EU migrants to the U.K. , is fiercely opposed . <p> This means there is a yawning gap between the promise the prime minister is making -- " a renegotiation " of the EU relationship -- and the modest reforms he seems likely to get out of it . <p> Britain 's restive Tory MPs understand this , and this is why Number 10 is understood to have been downplaying expectations of the summit , even suggesting that it may ask for more fundamental things further alone the line . One such policy might be an opt-out from the EU 's social chapter . Yet , promises have been purposefully vague . <p> Britain 's biggest problem is likely to be France . <p> The French economy minister has fired warning shots against a " Europe a-la-carte " as that would mean " dismantling a mansion . " <p> What to watch ? <p> One idea tentatively reported in the press , has been the PR-fix of " rebranding " the U.K. 's membership status as an " associate " or " trading " member , as a slogan to slap on the top of whatever Cameron gets . Look carefully at Britain 's summit rhetoric for clues . 
@@84629955 <h> On Palestinian Prisoners ' Day , Ramzy Baroud Discusses His New Book on Prisoners <p> In honor of Palestinian Prisoners Day , April 17 , Ramzy Baroud discusses his new book , These Chains Will Be Broken . ( Photo : Video Grab ) <p> In honor of Palestinian Prisoners Day , Palestinian journalist and editor of the Palestine Chronicle Ramzy Baroud discusses his new book , " These Chains Will Be Broken : Palestinian Stories of Struggle and Defiance in Israeli Prisons " , and the plight of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails . <h> Related Articles <p> Palestinian teen activist Ahed Tamimi has been released from prison after serving nearly eight months in detention , according to Israeli authorities . Tamimi and her mother Nariman , who was also jailed , were released early on Sunday ... <p> The Palestinians of Gaza know all about lockdowns . For the past 13 years , some two million of them have endured a closure by Israel more extreme than anything experienced by almost any other society -- ... <p> Using social media , many reacted to the Israeli violence at the Gaza borders , and to the killing of at least 18 Palestinians and wounding of over 1,000 more who were peacefully protesting , demanding their right ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41920707 <h> Pictures of the Week 16 to 22 August : Best Photos of Past Seven Days <p> A man is doused with milk and sprayed with mist after tear gas was fired by security forces trying to disperse demonstrators protesting against the shooting of unarmed black teen Michael Brown in Ferguson , MissouriAdrees Latif/ReutersProtesters gesture in front of clouds of tear gasLucas Jackson / ReutersA demonstrator wearing a stars and stripes vest takes part in a protest in Ferguson , MissouriJoe Raedle/Getty ImagesDemonstrators protesting against the shooting of Michael Brown hold signs in Ferguson , **25;3146;TOOLONG Saah Exco lies in a back alley of the West Point slum in Monrovia , Liberia . The boy was one of the patients pulled out of a holding centre for suspected Ebola patients when the facility was overrun by a mob on Saturday . A local clinic Tuesday refused to treat the boy , according to residents , because of the danger of infection.John Moore/Getty ImagesSuspected Ebola sufferer Finda ' Zanabo ' prays over her sick family members before being admitted to the Doctors Without Borders ( MSF ) , Ebola treatment centre . She and her family left an Ebola isolation centre in the West Point slum when it was overrun by a mob on August 16 . Her nephew Saah Exco , 10 , died on Wednesday , after being taken to the JFK Ebola ward in Monrovia.John Moore/Getty ImagesUmu Fambulle stands over her husband Ibrahim after he staggered and fell , knocking himself unconscious in an Ebola isolation centre in a closed primary school in MonroviaJohn Moore/Getty ImagesFollowers of the Shi'ite Houthi group pray during a rally to demand for the resignation of the government in Sana'a , YemenReutersMahmoud Mansour and his bride Maral Malka celebrate before their wedding in Jaffa , south of Tel Aviv . More than 200 far-right Israeli protesters tried to disrupt the wedding of a Jewish woman and a Muslim man.ReutersTarek al-Rifi , the father of one of the three children from the Al-Rifi family killed in an Israeli military strike , reacts at Gaza city 's Al-Shifa hospitalAFPA Palestinian fighter from the Izz el-Deen al-Qassam Brigades , the armed wing of the Hamas movement , stands inside a tunnel . A rare tour that Hamas granted to a Reuters reporter , photographer and cameraman appeared to be an attempt to dispute Israel 's claim that it had demolished all of the Islamist group 's border infiltration tunnels.ReutersA journalist tours a tunnel that was dug underneath a neighbourhood close to the residential compound of Yemen 's former president Ali Abdullah Saleh , in SanaaReutersA man takes a selfie as he stands with a Ukrainian flag on a Soviet-style star retouched with blue paint so it resembles the yellow-and-blue national colours of Ukraine , atop the spire of a building in MoscowReutersJapanese soldiers dig for bodies buried in the mud after a landslide swept through a residential area in HiroshimaReutersA worker is reflected in spilled oil as he tries to clean up the shores of the river San Juan in Cadereyta , Mexico . The 24-inch Madero-Cadereyta pipeline , owned by national oil company Pemex , was ruptured when thieves attempted to tap into itReutersRevellers taunt a bull with its horns set on fire during the El Novillo de Bombas festival in Mira , north of Quito , EcuadorReutersA coconut is soaked in paraffin and set on fire for a game of ' fire football ' during celebrations of Indonesia 's Independence Day in YogyakartaGettyTracer bullets ricochet off their targets as Japanese Ground Self-Defence Force tanks fire their machine guns during a night session of an annual training exercise at Higashifuji training field near Mount Fuji in Gotemba , west of TokyoReutersReid Wiseman , an astronaut on the International Space Station , took this photo of an aurora dancing around the Earth 's atmosphere . ' Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine this , ' he tweeted. @astroreidCleaners abseil down one of the faces of Big Ben , to clean and polish the clock face . A week has been set aside for the cleaning of what is officially known as the Great Clock , which is set in the Elizabeth Tower above the Houses of Parliament in London.ReutersA couple chat and drink beer during sunset in Brasilia , BrazilReutersLucia Carbines performs during the Empire circus show presented by Spiegelworld in TokyoAFPFrench artist Agathe de Bailliencourt creates an installation using glowing pebbles at the Singapore Night FestivalAFPPeople look at French artist Clement Briend 's photographic light installation Divine Trees , which features images of figures highly revered in Asian cultures projected onto trees at the Singapore Night FestivalReutersPeople try to climb greased poles to reach prizes during an event organised in celebration of Indonesia 's 69th Independence Day in JakartaReutersIndian Hindu devotees reach out before attempting to form a human pyramid in a bid to reach and break a dahi-handi ( curd pot ) suspended over the crowd during celebrations for the Janmashtami festival , marking the birth of Lord Krishna , in MumbaiAFPDevotees try to form a human pyramid to break a clay pot containing curd during the Hindu festival of Janmashtami in MumbaiReutersAcrobats from a Shaolin martial arts school perform a dazzling aerial display during the opening ceremony of the Youth Olympic Games in Nanjing , ChinaGettyPeople dressed up as leopards and tigers take part in a traditional parade to ask for rain and plenty of crops , in Chilapa , Guerrero State , MexicoAFPAn eight-week old Javan leopard cub is weighed at the Tierpark zoo in BerlinAFPA squirrel monkey peers into a photographer 's lens during the annual weigh-in at London ZooReutersA family of swans swim along a channel in a field in Popielarze , PolandAFPA female dog feeds two tiger cubs and her own puppy after the cubs ' mother rejected them at a zoo in Hefei , Anhui province , ChinaReutersNewborn giant panda triplets are cared for in an incubator at the Chimelong Safari Park in Guangzhou , Guangdong province , ChinaReutersHorses and riders are seen during a trackwork session at Flemington Racecourse in MelbourneGettyCarlo Sanna crashes at the San Martino curve during the Palio horse race in Siena , ItalyReutersArgentina 's Juan Martin ( R ) tackles South Africa 's captain , Jean de Villiers during their Rugby Championship match at Loftus Versfeld stadium in PretoriaReutersAkram Ahmed of Egypt swims during the men 's 400m freestyle final at the Nanjing 2014 Summer Youth Olympic GamesGettyBritain 's Sarah Barrow dives to win the women 's 10m platform final at the 32nd LEN European swimming championships in BerlinAFP 
@@41921948 <h> The black flag of ISIS is flying in London <h> Share <p> There is a phrase used of , and by , jihadists : ' First the Saturday people , then the Sunday people . ' Well there 's a fine example of this on display at the moment in East London . Even the Guardian has picked up on it . <p> At the entrance to a council estate near Canary Wharf , amid the banners of the hilariously misnamed ' Stop the War coalition ' ( ' End the Siege on Gaza ' ) the Black flag of Jihad is flying . Yes , that 's right , at a major council estate in the East End of London the black flag of ISIS is flying . Here is an excerpt from what one might hope is the Guardian 's learning curve : <p> ' When the estate was approached last night , a group of about 20 Asian youths swore at Guardian journalists and told them to leave the area immediately . One youth threatened to smash a camera . <p> When a passerby tried to take a picture of the flag on a phone , one of the gang asked him if he was Jewish . The passerby replied : " Would it make a difference ? " The youth said : " Yes , it fucking would . " Asked if the flag was an Isis flag , one local man said : " It is just the flag of Allah . " But another man asked : " So what if it is ? " ' <p> This is n't the first such sighting . A couple of weeks ago I drew attention on Twitter to the fact that the black flag of jihad had been hoisted when young Muslims from the East End of London blocked the Blackwall Tunnel in a gesture of anti-Israel activity . There , among all the Palestinian flags , also flew the black flag of Jihad . The black flag has been on display elsewhere in Western Europe in recent weeks , notably at pro-ISIS and ' pro-Palestine ' demonstrations in Holland . <p> When historians look back on Europe in this era , they will rub their eyes in disbelief . ISIS is carrying out actual genocide , ethnic and religious cleansing on the people of Syria and Iraq . Their exact ideological soul-mates in Hamas , Hezbollah and al-Qaeda are doing everything they can to set light to the same region . Right now the western states are finally talking of intervening in Iraq to stop ISIS wiping out the ancient Yazidi and Christians communities of Iraq . Yet we do nothing to stop the same murderous ideology thriving here . <p> Instead another pattern is set . When we see this disgusting ideology at work , as we have done for the last month , much of Europe turns its hatred onto the Saturday people for defending themselves . Israel continues to defend itself . And we may do something to hold back ISIS in Iraq . But what will we do in our societies when we finally realise that behind the flag of Hamas is the black flag of jihad , and that after failing to stand up for the Saturday people there will be fewer people left to stand up for the Sunday people ? <p> Most importantly , what will we do when we wake up to the fact that , far from being in some neighbouring or far-flung country , we have allowed the enemy to plant itself deep inside our own countries ? 
@@41922186 <h> Israel : Bodies of Three Kidnapped Teenage Settlers Found near Hebron <p> The Israeli army has found the dead bodies of the three kidnapped Jewish settlers who went missing in the occupied West Bank two weeks ago . <p> The bodies of 16-year-olds Naftali Frenkel and Gilad Shaar and 19-year-old Eyal Yifrach were discovered near the village of Halhul , north of Hebron where two suspects in the case - Marwan Qawasmeh and Amer Abu Aisha - lived . <p> " The bodies are currently going through forensic identification . The families of the abducted teens have been notified , " the Israeli military said . <p> Israeli officials convened an emergency security cabinet meeting amid the new details in the search for the three teens with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu giving a statement beforehand . <p> " Hamas is responsible . Hamas will pay , " he said , adding that the three teenagers " were kidnapped and murdered in cold blood by wild beasts " . <p> US President Barack Obama criticised the deaths as a " senseless act of terror against innocent youth " while British Prime Minister David Cameron said their deaths were the result of an " appalling and inexcusable act of terror " . <p> The group , which runs the Gaza Strip , has denied any involvement in the kidnapping and killing of the teenagers . <p> Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) sent in troops in the Hebron area and set up roadblocks around the city , following the new developments in the investigation . <p> Clashes with Palestinian protesters erupted in the city of Halhoul , north of Hebron , and IDF troops adopted crowd dispersal measures , Ynet newspaper reported . 
@@84648080 <p> Meanwhile , Israeli soldiers stationed at military watchtowers along the Gaza perimeter fence to the east of Khan Younis , in the southern Gaza Strip , opened random fire toward Palestinian farmers as they were working in their own farms . No injuries were reported . <p> Gaza , with a population of 2 million , has been under a hermetic Israeli siege since 2006 , when the Palestinian group Hamas won the democratic legislative elections in occupied Palestine . Since then , Israel has carried out numerous bombing campaigns and several major wars , that resulted in the death of thousands of people . <h> Related Articles <p> Israeli authorities today released Palestinian MP Khalida Jarrar after detaining her for 20 months under administrative detention . Khalida Jarrar is released after 20months in AD . Addameer calls on all human rights actors to intensify pressure ... <p> On September 1 , the Lebanese group Hezbollah struck an Israeli military base near the border town of Avivim . The Lebanese attack came as an inevitable response to a series of Israeli strikes that targeted four different Arab countries ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84653318 <h> Gaza , One Football , One Leg : French Film Documents Courage of Palestinian Athletes , Brutality of Occupation <p> Filmmaker Patrice Forget shot an original documentary that is based on a soccer match organized in the French town of Martigues , in July 2019 , between a Palestinian team from Gaza and a French counterpart . <p> All athletes on both teams were amputees . <p> The film documents the lives of the young Gazans over the course of several days -- of training , rest and leisure time with friends . <p> The Palestinian amputees lost their legs mostly as a result of wounds sustained during their non-violent protests , dubbed the " Great March of Return " , held every Friday at the fence separating besieged Gaza Strip from Israel , starting in March 2018 . <p> Tens of thousands of protesters demanded the Right of Return for Palestinian refugees and an end to the Israeli hermetic siege on the impoverished Strip . <p> Most of these injuries were caused by explosive bullets fired by Israeli snipers which made it impossible to save the limbs of protesters . <p> Using the eyewitness testimonies and personal reflections of the Gaza athletes , Forget was able to convey in detail the brutal nature of Israel 's treatment of Palestinians and the hardship of life in Gaza under the protracted Israeli blockade . <p> Forget 's film was not a celebration of victimhood , but a deserved acknowledgment of the courage and strong will of these young Palestinians , who insist on embracing life despite their seeming physical handicap . <p> The music for the film is Beethoven 's third piano trio , interpreted by the Palestinian Joubran Trio . <h> Related Articles <p> Israeli forces have killed a Palestinian man in the southern occupied West Bank city of Al Khalil ( Hebron ) . #Palestine Israeli occupation forces shot and killed 37 years old Palestinian young man Rami Sabarnah who ... <p> An **25;930;TOOLONG , award-winning photographer was shot by an Israeli soldier in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday , reports the Art Newspaper . Tanya Habjouqa says she was lightly injured by an Israeli rubber bullet ... https : //t.co/bmrI7xkwxG #photography ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84653789 <p> Photos below show Palestinian workers in the besieged Gaza Strip making protective masks and preventive medical suits at a local factory in Gaza City on April 19 . <p> Since the spread of the coronavirus epidemic in Gaza and throughout the world , local factories have largely geared their production towards the making of masks , medical suits , and other urgently needed supplies . <p> Palestine Chronicle reporter in Gaza has documented that despite the Strip 's humble means and the absence of testing kits , efforts at combating the spread of the deadly virus continue unabated . <p> Sewing factories in Gaza have been busy manufacturing face masks for the local and international markets in response to the COVID-19 disease . <p> Palestine Chronicle reported on April 17 on the Hasco sewing factory 's mask production which is slated for international markets . <p> Abdullah Shehadeh , one of Hasco 's managers , said 40 workers have been working hard to make masks . <p> Shehadeh said that Gaza will do everything in its capacity to support efforts in Europe and elsewhere to contain the virus , adding that human life should always be placed above political differences . <h> Related Articles <p> Israel reopened the Karam Abu Salem border crossing , known as Kerem Shalom in Israel , the primary passageway that transfers necessities to residents of the besieged Gaza Strip . The lifting of the closure on Wednesday will allow ... <p> The Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) and the Palestinian Foreign Ministry condemned in two separate statements the decision by Moldova 's premier to move his country 's embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem , considering the decision ... <p> A senior Israeli political source said the government had suspended contacts with Egypt and the United Nations regarding a truce with the Gaza Strip . Israeli media , including Channel 10 , quoted a senior political source , who ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84665028 <p> Palestinian families shop at a market in Gaza City in preparations for the holy month of Ramadan . Muslims across the globe fast the month of Ramadan , where they abstain from eating and drinking from dawn till dusk . <p> This Ramadan arrives during difficult times , however , due to the spread of the coronavirus epidemic , thus forcing Muslims to cancel all gatherings and festivities which are associated with the holy month . <h> Related Articles <p> An Israeli court yesterday ruled against a Palestinian from Gaza whose three daughters were killed by the Israeli army during its 2008 war on the Strip , denying Israel 's responsibility for their deaths . Izzeldin Abuelaish , a ... <p> Hundreds of Israelis from Israeli communities surrounding the besieged Gaza Strip , participated in a protest in Tel Aviv , in central Israel , on Thursday , against " a weak reaction " on the part of the Israeli government after ... <p> Israel has broken a shaky ceasefire with Hamas after bombing positions belonging to the group in the besieged Gaza Strip on Saturday morning , as fears of a fresh conflict continue . No casualties were reported . Israel ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41926127 <h> ' Commander ' of Feuerkrieg far-right terror group unmasked by police as Estonian boy , 13 <p> He called himself " Commander " and led a ferocious far-right terrorist group in which members from 15 countries across Europe shared bomb-making advice and planned attacks on major cities . <p> But when police in Estonia tracked down the head of the so-called Feuerkrieg Division -- " fire war network " -- he was not quite what they were expecting . <p> He was 13 years old . <h> Download the new Independent Premium app <p> Sharing the full story , not just the headlines <p> The youngster , who founded the group and was responsible for recruitment , is now being held by authorities . <p> Under Estonian law , his age means he can not be identified or prosecuted . Other legal measures will be used to ensure he is not a risk to the public , officials told the country 's Eesti Ekspress newspaper . <h> ShapeCreated with Sketch.World news in pictures <p> Show all 50 <p> leftCreated with Sketch.rightCreated with Sketch . <h> ShapeCreated with Sketch.World news in pictures <h> 1/50 17 April 2020 <p> A pair of rare morepork owl chicks have become the first in more than a decade to survive on Norfolk Island , in the South Pacific <p> Parks Australia/Monash University <h> 2/50 16 April 2020 <p> A squirrel runs across a fence as the sun shines in Berlin 's Kreuzberg district <p> AFP via Getty Images <h> 3/50 15 April 2020 <p> Election officials during vote counting at a ballot counting station after voting in the general elections was closed in Seoul , South Korea <p> EPA <h> 4/50 14 April 2020 <p> Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris , which was damaged in a devastating fire one year ago today <p> Reuters <h> 5/50 13 April 2020 <p> Wild bluebells , which bloom around mid-April turning the forest blue as they form a carpet , are pictured in the Hallerbos in Belgium <p> Reuters <h> 6/50 12 April 2020 <p> Pope Francis delivers his Urbi et Orbi message following Easter Sunday Mass behind closed doors at St. Peter 's Basilica in The Vatican , during the country 's lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the COVID-19 infection <h> 10/50 8 April 2020 <h> 11/50 7 April 2020 <p> A employee and a resident of the house for the elderly " De Ravenstein " react as nurses dance and sing in the garden , following the coronavirus disease outbreak , in Boortmeerbeek , Belgium <p> Reuters <h> 12/50 6 April 2020 <p> A man stands in the balcony of his home with the moon in the background in Cali , Colombia <p> AFP via Getty <h> 13/50 5 April 2020 <p> A man holds a traditional lamp from the balcony of his house as torches and candles illuminate houses and high rise residential buildings as Indians mark the country 's fight against the coronavirus pandemic a suburb of New Delhi , India <p> AP <h> 14/50 4 April 2020 <p> Medical staff load an infected patient into an ambulance at the Nimes air base , south of France , during an evacuation operation from the hard-hit east of the country where hospitals are overwhelmed <p> AFP <h> 15/50 3 April 2020 <p> A man prays inside the closed Moussawi Grand Mosque in Basra <p> AFP via Getty <h> 16/50 2 April 2020 <p> A City Hall health official wearing a protective suit sprays disinfectant at the entrance of City One condominium as the residential building was placed under lockdown after 17 cases of COVID-19 were detected , in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia <p> EPA <h> 17/50 1 April 2020 <p> Migrant workers wait on marked areas on the ground to maintain social distancing as they queue to receive food packets at an industrial area during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the Covid-19 coronavirus , in Chennai <h> 18/50 31 March 2020 <h> 19/50 30 March 2020 <p> A stray dog walks in front of an empty historic India Gate , as nationwide lockdown continues over the coronavirus in New Delhi , India <p> Getty <h> 20/50 29 March 2020 <p> A man watches a TV screen showing a file image of North Korea 's missile launch during a news program at the Seoul Railway Station in Seoul <p> AP <h> 21/50 28 March 2020 <p> Hong Kong 's skyline is seen with some of its lights turned off to mark the Earth Hour , an environmental campaign <p> AFP/Getty <h> 22/50 27 March 2020 <p> Ukrainian citizens queue at the Polish-Ukrainian border during the coronavirus pandemic in Korczowa , Poland . On 13 March , Poland closed its borders due to the ongoing pandemic of the Covid-19 and has extended the measure until at least 11 April <p> EPA <h> 23/50 26 March 2020 <p> Tenon hospital emergency services staff members gesture during a break , on March 26 , 2020 in Paris , as the country is under lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19 disease caused by the novel coronavirus . <p> AFP via Getty <h> 24/50 25 March 2020 <p> Aerial view showing almost empty streets in Bogota , taken during the lockdown ordered by the government to fight the spread of the novel coronavirus <p> AFP via Getty <h> 25/50 24 March 2020 <p> Staff members line up to attention as they prepare to spray disinfectant at Wuhan Railway Station . China announced that a lockdown would be lifted on more than 50 million people in central Hubei province where the Covid-19 coronavirus first emerged late last year <p> AFP via Getty <h> 26/50 23 March 2020 <p> A public order agency officer sprays disinfectant over a woman before she enters a local government office as a precautionary move against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus in Surabaya <p> AFP via Getty <h> 27/50 22 March 2020 <p> Boys wearing protective and N95 masks play with a football outside their homes in Gaza City <p> AFP via Getty <h> 28/50 21 March 2020 <p> A woman standing on her balcony reaches out to catch a rose delivered to her via a drone on Mother 's day , in the Lebanese coastal city of Jounieh , north of the capital Beirut , as people remain indoors in an effort to limit the spread of coronavirus . In a quiet Lebanese town under lockdown over the novel coronavirus , a drone buzzed towards a balcony on Saturday to deliver a red rose to a mother grinning in surprise . The COVID-19 pandemic may have put a damper on Mother 's Day this year , but three students have come up with a novel service to celebrate the occasion without flouting social distancing restrictions <p> AFP via Getty <h> 29/50 20 March 2020 <p> Newlyweds Diego Fernandes , 46 and Deni Salgado , 30 , kiss through protective face masks at a wedding ceremony with only witnesses and no guests , as public gatherings are banned as part of Italy 's lockdown measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease in Naples <p> Reuters <h> 30/50 19 March 2020 <p> Members of a medical assistance team from Jiangsu province chant slogans at a ceremony marking their departure after helping with the Covid-19 coronavirus recovery effort , in Wuhan . Medical teams from across China began leaving Wuhan this week after the number of new coronavirus infections dropped . China on reported no new domestic cases for the first time since it started recording them in January , but recorded a spike in infections from abroad <p> AFP via Getty <h> 31/50 18 March 2020 <p> Sri Lankan police wear face masks a rehearsal parade in Colombo <p> AFP via Getty <h> 32/50 17 March 2020 <p> Divers clean and swipe the floor and walls of a pool at an aquatic complex in Medellin after the closure of all sporting venues in Colombia as a preventive measure against the spread of the Covid-19 <p> AFP via Getty <h> 33/50 16 March 2020 <p> Workers spray disinfectant as a precaution against the spread of coronavirus at the Mubarikiya market following the outbreak of coronavirus , in Kuwait City <p> EPA <h> 34/50 15 March 2020 <p> People gather with their belongings at the scene of the fire outbreak at Abule-Ado in Lagos , Nigeria <p> Reuters <h> 35/50 14 March 2020 <p> A man feeds pidgeons at Cataluna Square in Barcelona <p> EPA <h> 36/50 13 March 2020 <p> A mosso de esquadra police officer stands on the closed off road near Igualada , Spain . Over 60,000 people awoke Friday in four towns near Barcelona confined to their homes and with police blocking roads . The order by regional authorities in Catalonia is Spain 's first mandatory lockdown as Covid-19 coronavirus infections increase sharply <p> AP <h> 37/50 12 March 2020 <p> Italian mechanics Giacomo and Alessandro pose at their garage in Rome , as Italy shut all stores except for pharmacies and food shops in a desperate bid to halt the spread of a coronavirus that has killed 827 in the the country in just over two weeks <p> AFP via Getty <h> 38/50 11 March 2020 <p> Monks pray for victims of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami disaster during a memorial service on the coast in Iwaki , Fukushima . Japan marked the ninth anniversary of the killer tsunami that triggered the Fukushima nuclear meltdown , but fears about the new coronavirus forced a scaling back of public commemorations <p> Jiji Press/AFP via Getty <h> 39/50 10 March 2020 <p> Revellers dance as they celebrate Holi , the spring festival of colours in Allahabad <p> AFP/Getty <h> 40/50 9 March 2020 <p> Medical staff celebrate after all patients were discharged at a temporary hospital set up to treat people with the COVID-19 coronavirus in Wuhan in China <p> AFP/Getty <h> 41/50 8 March 2020 <p> A hundred members of the conservative activist group called Manif pour Tous ( " Protest for Everyone " ) dressed as Marianne , French Republic 's allegory , stage a protest against assisted reproductive technology ( ART ) and surrogacy in front of the National Assembly in Paris , France <p> AFP/Getty <h> 42/50 7 March 2020 <p> A migrant man runs away as another one takes cover behind a bin as Greek police use water cannons to block them trying to break fences in the Turkey-Greece border province of Edirne <p> AFP/Getty <h> 43/50 6 March 2020 <p> Police and forensic experts inspect the scene of an explosion near the US embassy in Tunis , the capital of Tunisia <p> AFP/Getty <h> 44/50 5 March 2020 <p> Migrants prepare for the coming night in a forest in the buffer zone at the Turkey-Greece border a crossing point <p> AFP/Getty <h> 45/50 4 March 2020 <p> A migrant rests with a child in his arms next to the Tunca river in Edirne , Turkey <h> 46/50 3 March 2020 <h> 47/50 2 March 2020 <p> South Korean soldiers wearing protective gear spray disinfectant as part of preventive measures against the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus , at a market in Daegu <p> Yonhap/AFP via Getty <h> 48/50 1 March 2020 <p> A woman shouts as law enforcement officials move in to disperse a group of immigrants who had occupied a historic church and a square . They are demanding to be moved to another country as they claim to feel not safe because of xenophobic attacks in central Cape Town , South Africa <p> Reuters <h> 49/50 29 February 2020 <p> Greek border guard use teargas to push back migrants who try to enter Greece at the Pazarkule border gate in Edirne , Turkey <p> AP <h> 50/50 28 February 2020 <p> A woman makes her way and NGO 's members help as a dinghy with 54 Afghan refugees lands ashore the Greek island of Lesbos . Turkey will no longer close its border gates to refugees who want to go to Europe , a senior official told AFP , shortly after the killing of 33 Turkish soldiers in an airstrike in northern Syria <p> AFP via Getty Images <h> 1/50 17 April 2020 <p> A pair of rare morepork owl chicks have become the first in more than a decade to survive on Norfolk Island , in the South Pacific <p> Parks Australia/Monash University <h> 2/50 16 April 2020 <p> A squirrel runs across a fence as the sun shines in Berlin 's Kreuzberg district <p> AFP via Getty Images <h> 3/50 15 April 2020 <p> Election officials during vote counting at a ballot counting station after voting in the general elections was closed in Seoul , South Korea <p> EPA <h> 4/50 14 April 2020 <p> Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris , which was damaged in a devastating fire one year ago today <p> Reuters <h> 5/50 13 April 2020 <p> Wild bluebells , which bloom around mid-April turning the forest blue as they form a carpet , are pictured in the Hallerbos in Belgium <p> Reuters <h> 6/50 12 April 2020 <p> Pope Francis delivers his Urbi et Orbi message following Easter Sunday Mass behind closed doors at St. Peter 's Basilica in The Vatican , during the country 's lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the COVID-19 infection <h> 10/50 8 April 2020 <h> 11/50 7 April 2020 <p> A employee and a resident of the house for the elderly " De Ravenstein " react as nurses dance and sing in the garden , following the coronavirus disease outbreak , in Boortmeerbeek , Belgium <p> Reuters <h> 12/50 6 April 2020 <p> A man stands in the balcony of his home with the moon in the background in Cali , Colombia <p> AFP via Getty <h> 13/50 5 April 2020 <p> A man holds a traditional lamp from the balcony of his house as torches and candles illuminate houses and high rise residential buildings as Indians mark the country 's fight against the coronavirus pandemic a suburb of New Delhi , India <p> AP <h> 14/50 4 April 2020 <p> Medical staff load an infected patient into an ambulance at the Nimes air base , south of France , during an evacuation operation from the hard-hit east of the country where hospitals are overwhelmed <p> AFP <h> 15/50 3 April 2020 <p> A man prays inside the closed Moussawi Grand Mosque in Basra <p> AFP via Getty <h> 16/50 2 April 2020 <p> A City Hall health official wearing a protective suit sprays disinfectant at the entrance of City One condominium as the residential building was placed under lockdown after 17 cases of COVID-19 were detected , in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia <p> EPA <h> 17/50 1 April 2020 <p> Migrant workers wait on marked areas on the ground to maintain social distancing as they queue to receive food packets at an industrial area during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the Covid-19 coronavirus , in Chennai <h> 18/50 31 March 2020 <h> 19/50 30 March 2020 <p> A stray dog walks in front of an empty historic India Gate , as nationwide lockdown continues over the coronavirus in New Delhi , India <p> Getty <h> 20/50 29 March 2020 <p> A man watches a TV screen showing a file image of North Korea 's missile launch during a news program at the Seoul Railway Station in Seoul <p> AP <h> 21/50 28 March 2020 <p> Hong Kong 's skyline is seen with some of its lights turned off to mark the Earth Hour , an environmental campaign <p> AFP/Getty <h> 22/50 27 March 2020 <p> Ukrainian citizens queue at the Polish-Ukrainian border during the coronavirus pandemic in Korczowa , Poland . On 13 March , Poland closed its borders due to the ongoing pandemic of the Covid-19 and has extended the measure until at least 11 April <p> EPA <h> 23/50 26 March 2020 <p> Tenon hospital emergency services staff members gesture during a break , on March 26 , 2020 in Paris , as the country is under lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19 disease caused by the novel coronavirus . <p> AFP via Getty <h> 24/50 25 March 2020 <p> Aerial view showing almost empty streets in Bogota , taken during the lockdown ordered by the government to fight the spread of the novel coronavirus <p> AFP via Getty <h> 25/50 24 March 2020 <p> Staff members line up to attention as they prepare to spray disinfectant at Wuhan Railway Station . China announced that a lockdown would be lifted on more than 50 million people in central Hubei province where the Covid-19 coronavirus first emerged late last year <p> AFP via Getty <h> 26/50 23 March 2020 <p> A public order agency officer sprays disinfectant over a woman before she enters a local government office as a precautionary move against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus in Surabaya <p> AFP via Getty <h> 27/50 22 March 2020 <p> Boys wearing protective and N95 masks play with a football outside their homes in Gaza City <p> AFP via Getty <h> 28/50 21 March 2020 <p> A woman standing on her balcony reaches out to catch a rose delivered to her via a drone on Mother 's day , in the Lebanese coastal city of Jounieh , north of the capital Beirut , as people remain indoors in an effort to limit the spread of coronavirus . In a quiet Lebanese town under lockdown over the novel coronavirus , a drone buzzed towards a balcony on Saturday to deliver a red rose to a mother grinning in surprise . The COVID-19 pandemic may have put a damper on Mother 's Day this year , but three students have come up with a novel service to celebrate the occasion without flouting social distancing restrictions <p> AFP via Getty <h> 29/50 20 March 2020 <p> Newlyweds Diego Fernandes , 46 and Deni Salgado , 30 , kiss through protective face masks at a wedding ceremony with only witnesses and no guests , as public gatherings are banned as part of Italy 's lockdown measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease in Naples <p> Reuters <h> 30/50 19 March 2020 <p> Members of a medical assistance team from Jiangsu province chant slogans at a ceremony marking their departure after helping with the Covid-19 coronavirus recovery effort , in Wuhan . Medical teams from across China began leaving Wuhan this week after the number of new coronavirus infections dropped . China on reported no new domestic cases for the first time since it started recording them in January , but recorded a spike in infections from abroad <p> AFP via Getty <h> 31/50 18 March 2020 <p> Sri Lankan police wear face masks a rehearsal parade in Colombo <p> AFP via Getty <h> 32/50 17 March 2020 <p> Divers clean and swipe the floor and walls of a pool at an aquatic complex in Medellin after the closure of all sporting venues in Colombia as a preventive measure against the spread of the Covid-19 <p> AFP via Getty <h> 33/50 16 March 2020 <p> Workers spray disinfectant as a precaution against the spread of coronavirus at the Mubarikiya market following the outbreak of coronavirus , in Kuwait City <p> EPA <h> 34/50 15 March 2020 <p> People gather with their belongings at the scene of the fire outbreak at Abule-Ado in Lagos , Nigeria <p> Reuters <h> 35/50 14 March 2020 <p> A man feeds pidgeons at Cataluna Square in Barcelona <p> EPA <h> 36/50 13 March 2020 <p> A mosso de esquadra police officer stands on the closed off road near Igualada , Spain . Over 60,000 people awoke Friday in four towns near Barcelona confined to their homes and with police blocking roads . The order by regional authorities in Catalonia is Spain 's first mandatory lockdown as Covid-19 coronavirus infections increase sharply <p> AP <h> 37/50 12 March 2020 <p> Italian mechanics Giacomo and Alessandro pose at their garage in Rome , as Italy shut all stores except for pharmacies and food shops in a desperate bid to halt the spread of a coronavirus that has killed 827 in the the country in just over two weeks <p> AFP via Getty <h> 38/50 11 March 2020 <p> Monks pray for victims of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami disaster during a memorial service on the coast in Iwaki , Fukushima . Japan marked the ninth anniversary of the killer tsunami that triggered the Fukushima nuclear meltdown , but fears about the new coronavirus forced a scaling back of public commemorations <p> Jiji Press/AFP via Getty <h> 39/50 10 March 2020 <p> Revellers dance as they celebrate Holi , the spring festival of colours in Allahabad <p> AFP/Getty <h> 40/50 9 March 2020 <p> Medical staff celebrate after all patients were discharged at a temporary hospital set up to treat people with the COVID-19 coronavirus in Wuhan in China <p> AFP/Getty <h> 41/50 8 March 2020 <p> A hundred members of the conservative activist group called Manif pour Tous ( " Protest for Everyone " ) dressed as Marianne , French Republic 's allegory , stage a protest against assisted reproductive technology ( ART ) and surrogacy in front of the National Assembly in Paris , France <p> AFP/Getty <h> 42/50 7 March 2020 <p> A migrant man runs away as another one takes cover behind a bin as Greek police use water cannons to block them trying to break fences in the Turkey-Greece border province of Edirne <p> AFP/Getty <h> 43/50 6 March 2020 <p> Police and forensic experts inspect the scene of an explosion near the US embassy in Tunis , the capital of Tunisia <p> AFP/Getty <h> 44/50 5 March 2020 <p> Migrants prepare for the coming night in a forest in the buffer zone at the Turkey-Greece border a crossing point <p> AFP/Getty <h> 45/50 4 March 2020 <p> A migrant rests with a child in his arms next to the Tunca river in Edirne , Turkey <h> 46/50 3 March 2020 <h> 47/50 2 March 2020 <p> South Korean soldiers wearing protective gear spray disinfectant as part of preventive measures against the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus , at a market in Daegu <p> Yonhap/AFP via Getty <h> 48/50 1 March 2020 <p> A woman shouts as law enforcement officials move in to disperse a group of immigrants who had occupied a historic church and a square . They are demanding to be moved to another country as they claim to feel not safe because of xenophobic attacks in central Cape Town , South Africa <p> Reuters <h> 49/50 29 February 2020 <p> Greek border guard use teargas to push back migrants who try to enter Greece at the Pazarkule border gate in Edirne , Turkey <p> AP <h> 50/50 28 February 2020 <p> A woman makes her way and NGO 's members help as a dinghy with 54 Afghan refugees lands ashore the Greek island of Lesbos . Turkey will no longer close its border gates to refugees who want to go to Europe , a senior official told AFP , shortly after the killing of 33 Turkish soldiers in an airstrike in northern Syria <p> AFP via Getty Images <p> It is understood the members of the 70-strong group did not realise they were being led by a schoolboy . <p> The online organisation was considered a potential danger by authorities due to the zeal of its members . <p> Internal logs showed they went by names such as Heydrich , discussed attacks on cities including London , and posed for pictures alongside rifles and copies of Mein Kampf . " We kill anyone who gets in our way , " was a central tenet of the group , which has now disbanded . <h> Report Comment <h> Delete Comment <p> Are you sure you want to delete this comment ? <p> Deleting comment ... <p> This comment has been deleted . <p> This comment has been deleted . <h> About The Independent commenting <p> Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme , Independent Premium . It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues , share their own experiences , discuss real-world solutions , and more . Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium . The most insightful comments on all subjects will be published daily in dedicated articles . You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies to your comment . <p> The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to Independent Premium . Due to the sheer scale of this comment community , we are not able to give each post the same level of attention , but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate . Please continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates . 
@@84670200 <p> Several vehicles breached the border fence , went dozens of meters into Gaza and razed land , then fired guns in the air before returning into the Israeli side of the fence . <p> This is your chance to translate your solidarity into action by keeping the Palestine Chronicle active , disseminating important information about Palestine in both English and French to the world . https : **39;1493;TOOLONG ... Related Articles <p> A Palestinian fisherman was injured today after he was shot by Israeli navy off the shore of the northern Gaza Strip , according to Palestinian news agency WAFA . Eyewitnesses told WAFA that a fisherman was injured ... <p> A prominent Saudi journalist has said that achieving peace with Israel is more important than the status of Jerusalem and that the Palestinian issue must be " eliminated " . Abdul Hameed Al-Ghabin -- an influential political analyst ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84675120 <p> Palestinian toymaker Fida al-Liddawi adds the final touches on his coronavirus costume , putting it in practice in the Nuseirat refugee camp , in Central Gaza . <p> The idea behind Liddawi 's costume is to provide a cathartic experience for children to help them cope with the sense of fear and panic that has struck the Gaza community since the spread of the deadly virus in the besieged and impoverished Strip . <h> Related Articles <p> Israeli military forces raided a Palestinian school in the West Bank city of Hebron ( Al-Khalil ) on Sunday during a rally marking the 14th anniversary of iconic leader Yasser Arafat 's demise . School principal Tarek bin Ziyad ... <p> A group of Jewish settlers attempted to raid two Palestinian elementary schools , on Tuesday afternoon , in the Tuqu village , southeast of the southern occupied West Bank district of Bethlehem . Locals told Ma'an that heavily armed ... <p> Israel 's decision to withhold part of the taxes it collects on behalf of the Palestinian Authority and plunge it deeper into crisis starkly illustrates the hypocrisies and deceptions at the core of the two governments ' ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84680777 <p> " In 2019 , Israeli security forces killed 133 Palestinians , including 28 minors . Of the casualties , 104 were killed in the Gaza Strip , 26 in the West Bank ( including East Jerusalem ) and three within Israel , " Human Rights group B'tselem reported . <p> " Most of these deaths were a direct outcome of Israel 's reckless open-fire policy , authorized by the government and military and backed by the legal system , " the group added . <h> Related Articles <p> Palestinian journalist Ahmed Abu Hussein today died of his wounds after being shot by Israeli snipers while covering mass protests at the Gaza Border . Abu Hussein was shot in the abdomen on April 13. #Breakingnews ... <p> On Friday all of Tunisia 's schools organized a stand in solidarity and support of the Palestinian struggle , and against Mike Pompeo , the US secretary of state 's statements that legitimize Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41931570 <h> Dr Williams visits Holy Land to support Christians <p> by <p> 24 February 2010 <p> by Bill Bowder <p> VULNERABLE Christian communi ? ties in the Holy Land have received a boost of confidence after the Arch ? bishop of Canterbury raised their profile during his visit to the region , which ended on Tuesday , briefings from his staff said . <p> VULNERABLE Christian communi ? ties in the Holy Land have received a boost of confidence after the Arch ? bishop of Canterbury raised their profile during his visit to the region , which ended on Tuesday , briefings from his staff said . <p> In meetings with the three most senior heads of churches in Jerusalem -- the Greek Orthodox Patriarch , Theophilos III , the Armenian Ortho ? dox Patriarch , Torkom II , and the Latin Patriarch , Fouad Twal -- the leaders agreed " that everything pos ? sible needed to be done to ensure that the Christian communities in the Holy Land could continue to flourish " . <p> Dr Williams also raised the subject with King Abdullah of Jordan , in his visit to the Kingdom last Friday , when " they shared profound concerns about the increasing fragility of Christian communities across the region and the Holy Land in particular . " <p> In a meeting with the President of Israel , Shimon Peres , on Monday , he discussed the contribution Christian communities and their institutions make to national life , especially through their schools and hospitals . <p> On the same day , Dr Williams met the Chief Rabbis of Israel , when a discussion took place of " the life and needs of the diverse Christian com ? munity in Jerusalem and the Holy Land , and a clear commitment was made to find practical ways in which greater mutual understanding be ? tween communities could be brought about " . <p> When Dr Williams met the Pales ? tinian Prime Minister , Dr Salam Fayyad , in Ramallah during his visit to the West Bank to meet Palestinian Christians and government officials , Dr Fayyad told him that he was con ? cerned about " the continuing shrink ? ing of numbers of Christians living on the West Bank and of the impor ? tance of halting and ideally reversing that process . " He spoke of the " vibrant and important contribution made by the Christian community and Anglican institutions such as St Luke 's Hospital in Nablus to the whole of the Palestinian community , regardless of faith " . <p> Advertisement <p> On Tuesday , Dr Williams , accom ? panied by the Bishop in Jerusalem , the Rt Revd Suheil Dawani , visited the Anglican Ahli Arab Hospital in Gaza . The Archbishop 's spokeswoman said : " The continuing humanitarian crisis was evident with acute , and well-documented , shortages of basic foodstuffs , medicines , and building materials . " The director of the hos ? pital , Suheila Tarazi , spoke of the " co-operative spirit " between Chris ? tians and Muslims . " We seek to bring hope to the hopeless and bring good news to the poor . " <p> Dr Williams laid a wreath at Yad Vesham in Jerusalem , in memory of those who died in the Holocaust . He was accompanied by the Bishop of Clogher , the Rt Revd Michael Jackson , who co-chairs the Anglican Jewish Commission and of the Angli ? can Network for Inter-Faith Con ? cerns , and by Bishop Dawani . <p> During his visit to Jordan , Dr Williams also blessed the foundation stone of the Anglican Great Church of St John the Baptist , at the traditional site of Jesus 's baptism . He told the 750 Anglicans present that the hearts of the people could be compared to the river 's muddy , sometimes sluggish waters . " Into these waters of our con ? fusion and muddy turbulence , God enters , and immerses himself com ? pletely. " 
@@84697095 <p> Palestinian artists putting final touches on a mural in Gaza City , exhibiting solidarity with Palestinian prisoners who have contracted the coronavirus inside Israeli prisons . <p> There are nearly 5,500 Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails . To learn more about their collective struggle and resistance from their own perspective , click here to read an excerpt from Ramzy Baroud 's latest volume , These Chains Will Be Broken : Stories of Struggle and Defiance in Israeli Jails . <h> Related Articles <p> When Israeli prime ministers are in trouble , facing difficult elections or a corruption scandal , the temptation has typically been for them to unleash a military operation to bolster their standing . In recent years , Gaza has ... <p> Major General Qadri Abu Bakr , chairman of the Prisoners Affairs Commission , has condemned the repeated crimes committed by Israel against Palestinian prisoners , which he says have taken " a very dangerous and unprecedented detour " designed to quash their patriotism ... <p> The United Nations on Tuesday criticized Israel 's closure of its only cargo crossing with the Gaza Strip , warning that the measure could have severe negative consequences . UN is deeply concerned at the decision of the ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84714190 <h> Related Articles <p> The Palestinian Health Ministry in Gaza announced on Sunday the first two cases of COVID-19 , the disease caused by the new coronavirus , in the besieged Gaza Strip . Deputy Health Minister Youssef Abulreesh said that the ... <p> The Palestinian Ministry of Health in Gaza yesterday warned of deterioration in conditions in its hospitals due to the " unprecedented " lack of medicines , Shehab.ps reported . In a statement , the ministry said that : " Patients in Gaza hospitals are ... <p> The Higher National Committee ( HNC ) , which represents several Gaza-based political groups and civil society organizations , announced on Thursday that the Great March of Return protests will no longer be held weekly , but once a month , ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84719174 <p> Palestinian artists putting final touches on a mural in Gaza City , exhibiting solidarity with Palestinian prisoners who have contracted the coronavirus inside Israeli prisons . <p> There are nearly 5,500 Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails . To learn more about their collective struggle and resistance from their own perspective , click here to read an excerpt from Ramzy Baroud 's latest volume , These Chains Will Be Broken : Stories of Struggle and Defiance in Israeli Jails . <h> Related Articles <p> Sewing factories in the Gaza Strip have been busy manufacturing face masks for the local and international markets in response to the coronavirus crisis . Abdullah Shehadeh , one of the administrators at the Hasco sewing factory , ... <p> By Dr. Khaled Odetallah Throughout history , Gaza has played a prominent role in resisting the Zionist Enterprise in Palestine , our homeland . Its resistance has accomplished multiple historic milestones , creating distinctive shifts in the forms of ... <p> Injuries were reported among thousands of Palestinians who marched to the eastern borders of the besieged Gaza Strip , on Saturday , in commemoration of Land Day and as " The Great March of Return " protests mark one ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84724732 <h> A Gaza ' Musaharati ' Entertains His Daughter under Quarantine ( PHOTOS ) <p> Palestinian performer ' Ala Miqdad entertains his daughter at their home while under quarantine in Gaza city . <p> Miqdad , a much-beloved character among Gaza 's children , is playing the role of the Ramadan Musaharati , a traditional character of a drummer who wakes Muslims up before sunrise , to eat and prepare for the fasting day ahead . <h> Related Articles <p> Experience has taught Palestinians not to pay heed to Israeli elections . But to every rule , there is an exception . Although it is still true that no Israeli Zionist leader has ever been kind to the ... <p> Israeli forces shot dead a Palestinian protester during Friday 's March of Return demonstrations along the fortified Gaza-Israel border , the Palestinian health ministry said . The victim was identified as Saher Awadallh Jabr Othman , 20 . Another 52 people were wounded during the ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@84724798 <h> Hamas Announces that Prisoner Exchange Could Take Place Soon <p> Hamas announced that the chances of reaching a prisoner swap deal with Israel are increasing . ( Photo : File ) <p> The Palestinian Resistance Movement Hamas announced on Friday that the chances of reaching a prisoner swap deal with Israel are increasing and that the exchange could take place after the formation of the new Israeli government . <p> Recently , the Hamas leader in Gaza Yahya Al-Sinwar disclosed that Hamas could offer " partial concessions " in return for the Israeli release of elderly and female prisoners . <p> " Hamas is keen to release the prisoners who offered massive sacrifices for the sake of this country , " member of Hamas Political Bureau Salah Al-Bardawil told Arab.21 . <p> " Hamas has paid high prices for the sake of releasing the Palestinian prisoners . It achieved this through the Shalit deal ( prisoner swap with Israel reached in 2011 ) , " Al-Bardawil added . <p> From the book : " These chains will be broken , Palestinian stories of struggle and defiance in Israel prison " , Ramzy Baroud . Part of " Hanan is ' Tenderness ' " by Wafa Ibrahim Samir al-Bis. **26;998;TOOLONG <p> After three general elections and an unprecedented deadlock , all within the course of one year , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his rival Benny Gantz signed a government coalition agreement on April 20 . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced , on Tuesday , that he intends to name a new settlement in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights after United States President Donald Trump . Netanyahu spoke during a family trip in ... <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's trial will begin on March 17 , two weeks after the country 's national election , Israel 's Justice Ministry said on Tuesday . Netanyahu will be required to be present at the trial , according ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41939529 <h> Accessibility Links <h> Binyamin Netanyahu ready to annex parts of West Bank by the summer <p> Binyamin Netanyahu plans to annex parts of the occupied West Bank in July <p> DEBBIE HILL/REUTERS <p> Anshel Pfeffer , Jerusalem <p> Tuesday April 28 2020 , 12.01am , The Times <p> The new Israeli government plans to authorise the annexation of parts of the occupied West Bank in July after Binyamin Netanyahu said he was confident of President Trump 's support . <p> " President Trump pledged to recognise Israeli sovereignty over the Jewish communities in the West Bank , " the Israeli prime minister said in an online message to a group of American evangelical Christians . " A couple of months from now , I am confident that that pledge will be honoured . " <p> Mr Netanyahu was referring to the " deal of the century " plan unveiled by Mr Trump in January . Under its terms , Israel will be allowed to annex parts of the West Bank and the rest of the territory , along with Gaza , will become an independent Palestinian state . 
@@84744526 <h> Gaza Municipality Forced to Reduce Its Service due to Budget Deficit <p> The municipality of Gaza yesterday announced that it would start reducing its services gradually in order to avoid a complete collapse due to the budget deficit which has resulted from the outbreak of the coronavirus . <p> " This step was adopted in order to give an opportunity to continue offering our services as long as possible using the given abilities , " the Municipality said in a statement . <p> The municipality said that this decision came 52 days after Palestinian Authority ( PA ) President Mahmoud Abbas ' declaration of the state of emergency in the Palestinian territories as part of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus . <p> " Many parties gave up their responsibilities towards the besieged Gaza Strip at the time of economic deterioration and a decline in the number of people who pay their bills for the municipality 's services , " the statement said . <p> According to the statement , the municipality said that the collection of rubbish from the streets would be affected by this decision , calling for people to reduce their waste . <p> The sterilization of public spaces has " exhausted the budget " , municipality officials said . <p> " The truth is , no amount of ' preparedness ' in Gaza -- or , frankly , anywhere in occupied Palestine -- can stop the spread of the Coronavirus , " wrote Palestinian journalist and editor of The Palestine Chronicle , Ramzy Baroud . <p> " What is needed is a fundamental and structural change that would emancipate the Palestinian healthcare system from the horrific impact of the Israeli occupation and the Israeli government 's policies of perpetual siege and politically-imposed ' quarantines ' -- also known as apartheid , " Baroud added . <p> With 13 coronavirus cases already confirmed in the Gaza Strip , hospitals that were once overwhelmed by gunshot wounds and amputations are now gearing up for a very different challenge in a densely populated , coastal enclave of two million Palestinians , many living in refugee camps . <h> Related Articles <p> Israeli occupation forces killed seven Palestinians in the Gaza Strip in a clandestine raid targeting a Hamas commander and air strikes that provided cover for the commandos to escape back into Israel by car . The ... <p> Over half of Israelis believe that Israel 's recent attack on the Gaza Strip was too weak , while only three percent thought it constituted an excessive approach . The poll -- which was published by Israel 's public ... <p> The United States has completely frozen its civil assistance to the Palestinian Authority , Israeli TV station i24 revealed on Monday . This step came two months after the decision of the US Congress to oblige the ... <h> Our Network <h> About Us <p> The Palestine Chronicle is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization whose mission is to educate the general public by providing a forum that strives to highlight issues of relevance to human rights , national struggles , freedom and democracy in the form of daily news , commentary , features , book reviews , photos , art , and more . Read More 
@@41945975 <h> Guns in America : why has Barack Obama failed to control firearms ? <h> US citizens , 5 per cent of the world 's population , own as many as half of its privately held guns <p> Hours before the news came through that a gunman had killed two people in a cinema in the US state of Louisiana , Barack Obama admitted that failing to pass " common sense gun safety laws " was the greatest frustration of his presidency . <p> In an interview with the BBC , Obama said that gun control was the single area he had felt " most frustrated and most stymied " in his six and a half years as president . <p> " If you look at the number of Americans killed since 9/11 by terrorism , it 's less than 100 . If you look at the number that have been killed by gun violence , it 's in the tens of thousands , " he said . <p> Only a few hours after completing the interview , a lone gunman stood up in a cinema in Lafayette , shot dead two people and injured several others before taking his own life , police said . <p> The cinema shooting comes just over a month after 21-year-old Dylann Roof is alleged to have opened fire at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in downtown Charleston , killing nine African American worshippers . <p> When Barack Obama spoke about that shooting , his despair was palpable . <p> " I 've had to make statements like this too many times , " he said . " Communities have had to endure tragedies like this too many times . <p> " At some point , we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this kind of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries . It does n't happen in other places with this kind of frequency . " <p> Obama is right . Other countries -- especially ones that the US would call " advanced " -- simply do not have the same problem with gun-related homicides that the US does . In 2013 , according to FBI figures , 69 per cent of homicides in the US involved some sort of firearm -- which amounted to over 8,000 deaths using guns that year . <p> Click on map above to see the number of firearm-related homicides in each state <p> The worst affected states were Delaware , Illinois and the District of Columbia . In each , more than three quarters of homicides involved firearms . South Dakota and New Hampshire have fewest homicides involving firearms . In both , guns were involved in less than a quarter of all homicides . <p> According to a survey into small arms ownership in the US carried out in 2007 , every 100 Americans own , on average 89 guns . It also found that American civilians owned 35 to 50 per cent of the world 's civilian-owned firearms but have just 5 per cent of the world 's population . <p> Some have suggested that the problem with firearms in the US is not just how many guns are in private ownership , but how often they are used . <p> The most reliable and up-to-date data on homicides involving firearms that is publicly available comes from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime ( UNODC ) . Unfortunately , the data is from 2010 or even earlier in some cases , but it is still a useful indicator of how many people are murdered in each country using guns or other firearms . <p> The countries with the highest rate of homicides involving firearms are Honduras , El Salvador , and Jamaica . In Honduras , the rate of homicides by firearms per 100,000 people is 68.43 . There , 83 per cent of all homicides involve a gun . <p> In El Salvador and Jamaica , the rate is 39.9 and 39.4 per cent respectively . The US , in contrast , has a homicide by firearms rate of just 2.97 , but this is still more than both the West Bank and Gaza in Israel . By contrast , the equivalent figure for the UK is 0.1 per cent . <p> The relationship between gun ownership and homicide by firearm is therefore not as straightforward as the simple equation that more guns equal more gun-related deaths . <p> The US has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world , followed by Yemen and then Switzerland . There are no figures for Yemen , but Switzerland 's homicide by firearm rate is much lower than the US . Finland , with the fourth highest rate of gun ownership , has an even lower rate of homicides by firearm . <p> So why is the US so unusual ? And why is it unlikely to change any time soon ? <p> Many analysts suggest that the biggest problem the US has is that Americans are reluctant to give up their right to own guns . The right to bear arms was granted to Americans by the second amendment -- and it has been staunchly defended even in the face of mass shootings , gun crimes and accidental shootings involving children . Not even the 2012 " Batman shooting " in a cinema in Aurora shifted the public 's stance on gun control , according to Pew Research Center . <p> In fact , according to Pew , the public tends to see mass shootings as isolated incidents , and not a reflection of a wider problem . Over the past 20 years , support for gun control has decreased dramatically and arguments mounted by proponents of the right to bear arms have gained momentum . Public opinion is now roughly split 50/50 between the two groups . <p> So will anything shift the US 's attitude to gun control ? Obama says the power to change US gun laws lies with Congress . Yet , Congress has in recent years voted down most proposed gun control legislation , including a bill that would have ensured tougher background checks on those who buy guns . As long as the stalemate continues , is seems inevitable that firearms will be responsible for further casualties . 
