@@61794952 <h> Ramadan prayers banned at Jerusalem mosque due to coronavirus <p> FILE PHOTO : A man walks in front of the Dome of the Rock in the compound known to Muslims as Noble Sanctuary and to Jews as Temple Mount in Jerusalem 's Old City , after Muslim clerics shut the doors of Al-Aqsa mosque and the Dome of the Rock until further notice as a precaution against coronavirus March 15 , 2020 . REUTERS/Ammar Awad/ FIle Photo <p> Jerusalem 's al-Aqsa mosque compound will be closed to Muslim worshippers throughout the holy fasting month of Ramadan due to the coronavirus epidemic , Muslim clerics at Islam 's third-holiest site said on Thursday . <p> Ramadan typically draws tens of thousands of Muslims daily to the mosque and the adjoining Dome of the Rock for evening prayers known as Taraweeh . Muslim faithful believe the site to be where the Prophet Mohammad ascended to heaven . <p> The decision to ban Muslim prayer at the 35-acre complex , revered by Jews as the Temple Mount and site of the Jewish temples of antiquity , extends a March 23 ban on Muslim prayer there . <p> In a statement , the Jordan-appointed council that oversees Islamic sites on the sacred compound called the decision " painful " but said it was " in line with legal fatwas ( clerical opinions ) and medical advice " . <p> Muslims should " perform prayers in their homes during the month of Ramadan , to preserve their safety , " the council said . <p> In one sign of normalcy , the Muslim call to prayer will still take place five times daily at the site during Ramadan , and religious workers will still be allowed entry , the statement added . <p> Jerusalem has sites sacred to Judaism , Christianity and Islam , and all three religions have taken coronavirus precautions . <p> Last week , Jews marking Passover in Jerusalem and across Israel were required to stay at home and celebrate only with immediate family . <p> Typically large Passover prayers at Jerusalem 's Western Wall , the holiest place Jews are allowed to pray in the city , were attended by only a handful of worshippers . <p> At the Church of the Holy Sepulchre , what are usually festive , pilgrim-filled Easter ceremonies at the shrine revered as the site of Jesus ' crucifixion and burial have been marked by small groups of clergy , often wearing face masks . <p> Israel has reported at least 140 deaths and nearly 12,600 cases of coronavirus . There have been two deaths and nearly 300 cases in the Palestinian Gaza Strip and the Israeli-occupied West Bank . <p> All mosques in Gaza have been closed since March 25 , and since March 14 in the West Bank . 
@@84688245 <h> In locked-down Gaza : PRCS Rehabilitation Programme Uses Social Media to Stay in Touch with Children <p> ( Gaza -- 21/4/2020 ) : As soon as the lockdown was ordered in the Gaza Strip , the Society 's Rehabilitation Department created Facebook pages and WhatsApp groups targeting children , both with and without disabilities , as well as their parents , in order to monitor their needs as the lockdown continues . <p> Hence , information and exercises covering all aspects of the rehabilitation process including education , training , therapy , guidance and behavior management were communicated to parents . Information was also provided on the risks posed by the lockdown on children with disabilities as well as on the spread and prevention of COVID-19 . Publications and information issued by PRCS and WHO were promoted while extracurricular activities were provided to children to develop their skills and fill their time with meaningful activities . <p> The 10 WhatsApp groups and 2 Facebook pages targeted 238 children with disabilities , 191 of their non-disabled peers and 290 parents . All participating children are enrolled in PRCS rehabilitation programs and services through schools , kindergartens , the Open Studio , programs for children with intellectual disabilities , extracurricular activities , vocational skills ' development programs and adult education programs . 
@@61814523 <p> In recent weeks , and despite the coronavirus crisis , it seems that political tensions are again escalating , with headlines describing internal disputes within the Jubilee party as well as conflicts developing between DP Ruto and Raila Odinga . <p> We have similarly witnessed emerging legal disputes , alongside parties pursuing extra-legal avenues to promote personal interests . Such machinations are expected as we edge closer to the 2022 national election . However , the current crisis our country faces requires us to see beyond these disputes and work as a team in this time of need . <p> Recent indications have led the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) to announce that the worst of coronavirus is not yet behind us . Many more will still die as this contagion slowly makes its way through our country and the continent as a whole . <p> As President Uhuru has emphasised on a number of occasions , " Unity and coordination will defeat the coronavirus pandemic " . Party infighting and politically calculated manipulations will only detract from our president 's efforts to secure our country in this trying time . This is not only disrespectful to our government , but harmful to the long-term wellbeing of our nation . The time has come to put an end to this and focus on what is important . <p> Most vital at this stage are efforts to ensure that we are adequately prepared for future potential upsurges in infected citizens . This is being spearheaded by our Health CS Kagwe and includes converting more hospital wards into secluded coronavirus treatment centres . Isolating those infected is one of the most important aspects of flattening the curve . <p> This will make sure that the number of critical cases do not exceed the capabilities of our health system or the capacity of available facilities . The president has placed this at the centre of the national strategy he has been employing . In the words of the Health CS , " Clearly we must also prepare for the worst . And mentally we must prepare ourselves to face an insurmountable situation " . <h> Also Read <p> Energy and time spent on political bickering should better be used to make sure that every part of our country is ready to face this crisis . <p> One of the biggest challenges to date has been to prevent the virus from sweeping through the less developed , rural areas of our country . After all , even the simplest things like washing your hands with soap are infinitely more challenging in rural areas . <p> Similarly difficult is the issue of social distancing . Relying on one breadwinner , some citizens have reported that even when coming down with mild symptoms , they can not afford to self-isolate . Determined to put in place the health provisions needed to protect all citizens across the country , Uhuru tasked the Multi-agency Taskforce on Covid-19 with finding solutions . <p> Our national response to date has been commendable . Imagine though , how successful we could be in fighting this common enemy if we were to unite all of our efforts in accomplishing this task . The famous handshake and subsequent Building Bridges Initiative ( BBI ) were exactly about this . <p> All our politicians must get on board . American president John F. Kennedy paraphrased this well when he famously said , " In a time of domestic crisis , men of goodwill and generosity should be able to unite regardless of party or politics " . <p> Such unity has been displayed at the international level as well . Countries have put aside deep rooted political differences to jointly address this common threat . These include the EU bypassing the existing sections regime against Iran to provide it with much needed humanitarian aid ; India and Pakistan easing border restrictions to help fight the virus ; and even Israeli companies setting up testing labs in the Hamas run Gaza Strip . This is something we can certainly learn from . <p> It is of course tempting for politicians to seek to take advantage of crisis for political gain . Those tempted should remember that Members of Parliament are called public servants for a reason . Elected by the people , they are expected to have the well-being of their electorate in mind at all times . In the short term , this might come at the expense of political gain . <p> But ultimately , the public wants to see its leaders unite and do the right thing . In the long run , mature , national leadership is not only good morally , but is also good politically . The public will remember those who acted responsibly , and will not be quick to forget those who pursued political gain when facing the greatest threat to humanity in decades . 
