@@31756162 <p> A Palestinian child wearing a face mask plays outside his home in the Shati refugee camp , west Gaza City . ( AP pic ) <p> BETHLEHEM : Malka Abu Aker has seen her crowded refugee camp in the Israeli-occupied West Bank swell year upon year since fleeing there over 70 years ago , with the arrival of new generations and those escaping successive Mideast conflicts . <p> But with the coronavirus spreading locally , the 73-year-old worries that her congested Palestinian camp is primed for contagion , and blames the UN 's cash-strapped Palestinian aid agency for not doing enough to help . <p> " ( UNRWA ) is not sanitising the camp , and they are not cleaning the camp in efforts against this epidemic , " Abu Aker said in Bethlehem 's Deheisheh camp , referring to the UN agency which provides services to 5.6 million Palestinian refugees . <p> Nearly a third of those refugees live in 58 UNRWA-registered camps across the West Bank , Gaza , Lebanon , Syria and Jordan . <p> " I have lived through many troubles ... but these days are the toughest I have ever seen , " said Abu Aker , who fled a village in West Jerusalem to escape fighting during the 1948 Arab-Israeli war . <p> From the packed beachfront camps of Gaza to the urban sprawl in south Beirut , Palestinian refugees fear that the already dwindling aid they receive from UNRWA could fall further as the health crisis persists , and donors shift priorities . <p> The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East -- UNRWA 's full name -- was created by the UN General Assembly 70 years ago to deal with the hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees who were driven from their homes or fled the conflict surrounding Israel 's 1948 creation . <p> UNRWA has faced budget difficulties for years amid donor fatigue and other conflicts in Syria and Yemen . But its financial troubles escalated after 2018 , when the United States , its largest donor , halted its annual aid of US$360 million . <p> Its challenges were compounded by an investigation last year into misconduct allegations , which saw the United States and Israel intensify criticism of the agency . <p> The probe led to the departure of senior officials including UNRWA 's Commissioner General , who denied wrongdoing and said the agency was the victim of a political campaign . <p> Financial crisis <p> Despite its troubles , UNRWA last year secured a three-year renewal of its mandate by the United Nations . But soon afterwards came an unexpected challenge : coronavirus . <p> It launched flash funding appeals , saying it needed US$14 million over an initial three-month period to confront the illness in its camps . <p> The crisis comes " while UNRWA is facing the most severe financial crisis in its history , " spokeswoman Tamara Alrifai told Reuters at the agency 's headquarters in Amman . <p> But she said the agency has already taken precautionary measures , including and closing all UNRWA-run schools and delivering medicine and food aid directly to refugees ' homes to reduce crowds at distribution centres . <p> " We are looking at whether it is possible to turn ( UNRWA facilities ) into places where people can isolate themselves " in the event of an outbreak , Alrifai said . <p> At least 34 Palestinian refugees in the West Bank have contracted the illness , six in Gaza and one in Lebanon , according to UNRWA . <p> We see nothing <p> In the sunless alleys of Gaza 's Beach refugee camp , home to nearly 90,000 Palestinians , medical workers dressed in head-to-toe protective gear sprayed disinfectant on UN vehicles last week and loaded wooden carts with aid for distribution . <p> One refugee , Mohammad Al-Taramsi , said deliveries to people 's homes would help stave off contagion but worried that aid to more than a million refugees in the Gaza Strip might be reduced . <p> " Donor countries are busy with the pandemic , and resolving their own economic situations , " Taramsi , 57 , said . <p> In the Jaramana refugee camp southeast of Damascus , some Palestinians reported little by way of protection against the virus in the camp that has ballooned since the start of Syria 's civil war . <p> " We did n't receive any aid at all , " said Talal Abou Ghnemeh , 42 . " All we have are initiatives by local political factions , who sanitise the camp . We see nothing from UNRWA . " <p> In Lebanon , children played soccer in an open area of Beirut 's Shatila refugee camp . Usually busy shops were mostly shuttered due to virus concerns . <p> Abou Hamze , 54 , said this meant refugee communities could lose their meagre incomes . <p> " Those who run computer , CDs or electric shops as their business to feed their families , they now ca n't open , " he said . 
@@31758479 <h> Israel Uncovers Hamas Money-Laundering Scheme <p> Hamas forces take part in a military parade in Gaza City on July 26 , 2017 as a tense standoff was underway between Israel and Muslim worshippers at the Temple Mount compound . Getty Images <p> JERUSALEM ( JTA ) -- The Israel Security Agency uncovered a money-laundering scheme that transferred funds to Hamas in Gaza and the West Bank from Turkey via Hebron . <p> The fund transfers , which began in 2016 , provided more than $210 million to Hamas in the West Bank and Gaza , according to the Israel Security Agency , also known as the Shabak or Shin Bet security service . <p> The Israel Security Agency , or ISA , made the announcement on Thursday . <p> The Israel Defense Forces ' military prosecutor is due to file indictments against those involved soon , according to the ISA . <p> Five Hamas members from the West Bank have been arrested in the investigation , and an operative each in Gaza and Turkey have been identified . <p> The ISA identified the head of the operation as Muhammad Maher Bader , a senior Hamas activist in Hebron and member of the Palestinian Authority 's Legislative Council ; he was arrested in June . According to the ISA , Bader hired couriers from the West Bank who traveled to Turkey under the guise as businessmen and took the tens of thousands of dollars given to them to buy goods and ship them by international courier to Hebron , where they were sold and the funds given to Hamas terrorists in the West Bank city , minus fees . <p> The money went to pay Hamas terrorists released from prison . There also were plans to build a cement factory with millions of dollars in Hamas financing that would serve as a front for additional money laundering . <p> " The uncovering of the infrastructure indicates the unrelenting motivation of Hamas militants in Turkey and the Gaza Strip to the increase of Hamas terrorism in Judea and Samaria , " the Hebrew names for the West Bank , the ISA said in a statement . <p> " The ISA , IDF and Israel Police will continue to uncover and thwart terrorist operations directed by Hamas elements in the Gaza Strip and abroad , " the statement also said . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@84505763 <h> When Coronavirus Is Over , Middle East Chaos Will Only Be Worse <h> Getty <p> For a time the Middle East seemed like it just froze , the conflicts of yesterday put in quarantine -- as so many of us have been -- while various countries strive to contain an epidemic of biblical scale . Do n't expect that to last . The coronavirus outbreak is not the great equalizer , nor is it the crisis in which past rivalries will be forgotten . <p> Like an earthquake , the coronavirus is magnifying the foundational weaknesses of the least prepared countries , exacerbating existing inequalities across the region . And like a particularly lethal aftershock , the crash of the oil price further debilitates petroleum-based economies that lack the financial reserves to weather the secondary blow to their system . <p> For Gulf countries , the " double whammy " of the coronavirus and the oil shock , while major disruptions , can be weathered with mass injections of capital . Moreover , these countries appear to have been some of the best prepared to deal with the pandemic , likely because they already faced the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome ( MERS ) outbreak . They acted relatively quickly and decisively to identify cases and close down their borders . That 's not to say that things are n't going to be bad for Gulf countries -- they will -- but there will be different shades of bad . <p> " Desperate people do desperate things , and desperate regimes even more so . " <p> By contrast , Algeria , Iraq , Egypt , and Lebanon are certain to be hit especially hard by the twin blows . Algeria and Iraq 's budgets are so tied to the price of oil that they have no margin to maneuver . The economic crisis will also hit Egypt , especially with the loss of tourism , while Lebanon was in the process of defaulting on its sovereign debt even before the outbreak really took off . <p> Refugee and internally displaced communities across the region also are going to be hit very hard , which is likely to increase refugee flows both within and outside the region -- with potential recipients of these flows having another reason to close their doors . As a result , the burden of these new refugees is poised to be borne most by the states that can least afford to do so and those that already are host to massive displaced populations . <p> This widening gap will have an impact on the region 's geopolitics . Desperate people do desperate things , and desperate regimes even more so . <p> The recent escalation in attacks against coalition forces in Iraq which resulted in the killing of two U.S. and UK soldiers in the Taji military base is one example of what could become a trend : namely , the growing need for countries weakened by the outbreak to project strength . <p> " Some protesters view their local regimes as worse than the virus . " <p> Iran has been at the epicenter of the crisis in the region and its lack of transparency and effort to maintain ties with one of its last trading partners , China , turned the crisis into a nightmare -- making us , as geopolitical analysts , wonder what does Iran have to lose and where could its proxies strike next ? <p> Beyond that , as the crisis shifts America 's focus even more inwards , local actors will test Washington 's willingness to respond to escalation . Given what happened in Iran , and the possible geopolitical consequences , this raises the questions of what would ( or more likely will ) happen if/when the crisis will reach these levels in areas such as Syria , Yemen , Libya or Gaza ? In an already unequal world , the crisis may well make asymmetric warfare even more relevant than it already was . <p> While some regimes struggling against popular protest movements may have perceived a silver lining in the outbreak , a day of reckoning is not far over the horizon . <p> In Algeria and Lebanon the streets are emptying fast . Now that the scale of the outbreak has set in , most if not all protesters wo n't be marching for weeks or months to come . But there will be some reluctance to call off the demonstrations . Some protesters view their local regimes as worse than the virus . <p> Those who decide to continue demonstrating will face a crackdown rationalized by the outbreak -- Algeria already issued a ban on protests . The pandemic will break the momentum of these popular movements , but , once the dust settles , these may also come back swinging at governments that mishandled the crisis . The Middle East and North Africa were in the middle of a second Arab Spring . There 's every reason to expect the uprisings to regain their momentum when " coronavirus season " is over . <p> On a domestic level , the crisis likely wo n't bring people together , at least not in the long term -- and not only because of the need for social distancing . Sectarian tensions are liable to increase , particularly as a result of Iran 's catastrophic mishandling of the situation . <p> " In Israel , the crisis has revealed -- overnight -- the government 's willingness to approve massive spying on its own population . " <p> In the Gulf , where much of the initial outbreak was the result of Iran-related travels -- which are difficult to track given that Gulf citizens who travel to Iran do n't get their passports stamped -- fear of a broader outbreak due to such travel is already having an impact , with Saudi Arabia closing the Shiite-majority region of Qatif , and other Gulf countries reluctant to repatriate their own citizens from Iran . <p> The lack of testing capabilities in Sunni areas of Iraq ( when compared to Kurdish and Shiite-majority areas ) , a similar lack of balance between testing numbers among the Jewish and Arab communities in Israel alongside tensions prompted by lockdown measures in Jaffa , all highlight the possibility that the outbreak will widen domestic divides rather than bridge them . <p> In Israel , the crisis has revealed -- overnight -- the government 's willingness to approve massive spying on its own population at a time when parliament ca n't convene to monitor the use of data gathered by the Israeli Security Agency . <p> This is not an isolated case : more broadly , containment measures and the subsequent reaction by their respective populations will widen the gap between governments who managed to gain public trust , and those who did n't . <p> All of these factors suggest the coronavirus pandemic will turn into a defining moment for the region , not simply because of its magnitude , but because it came at a time when most countries were experiencing their own political crises -- and failed to build any immunity to the one that suddenly knocked at their doors . 
@@31764366 <h> The perils of political and religious extremism , writes Brahma Chellaney <h> China 's authoritarianism gave the world the pandemic . Religious zealots accelerated the spread of the disease <p> Updated : Apr 06 , 2020 19:38 IST <p> By Brahma Chellaney , <p> The virulent contagions of political and religious fanaticism have become more pronounced during this pandemic , underscoring that the only way to contain the threat from extremists is to discredit their insidious ideologies ( Biplov Bhuyan/HT PHOTO ) <p> The current global crisis has no parallel . The Chinese Communist Party , by initially covering up the coronavirus disease ( Covid-19 ) outbreak , helped unleash the world 's worst pandemic in more than a century . The " world is paying a big price , " as United States President Donald Trump said , for what the world 's largest , strongest and longest-surviving autocracy did . The inestimable human and economic toll has shown how one country 's authoritarianism can ravage the world . <p> Accentuating the pandemic is another extremism -- one grounded in religion . The role of two proselytising fundamentalist organisations in spreading the deadly coronavirus has exemplified how religious extremism threatens public health and national security . <p> South Korea 's secretive Shincheonji Church of Jesus sparked a major crisis by importing the virus from Wuhan , where it organised a congregation . More than half of South Korea 's Covid-19 cases have been linked to this doomsday sect . Meanwhile , a transnational Islamist movement , Tablighi Jamaat , by holding large gatherings in Malaysia , Pakistan and Indonesia , helped export the pathogen to multiple countries , from Southeast Asia to West Asia . This Sunni missionary movement 's session in New Delhi spread the virus across India . <p> Through its large events , Tablighi Jamaat -- which reportedly has long served as a recruiting ground for terrorist groups -- has emerged as the super-spreader . Its four-day gathering of 16,000 at the Sri Petaling Mosque in Kuala Lumpur at the end of February spread the disease to six Southeast Asian countries . Its March 11-12 congregation in Lahore attracted up to a quarter of a million participants , but ended up creating the largest viral vector in the Sunni world and spreading the coronavirus far and wide -- from Kyrgyzstan to Gaza . <p> The lesson is that religious fanaticism is often deadly . Indeed , the blind faith of religious zealots has been a significant trigger in spreading Covid-19 , as Iran 's case underscores . Qom became the centre of Iran 's contagion because clerics , discounting the virus risks , invited the faithful to keep coming , and to lick the burial mound inside the Masumeh shrine , saying the holy city is " a place for healing " and thus safe from the contagion . Cases in countries stretching from Afghanistan and Iraq to Bahrain and Lebanon were later traced to Iran . <p> Likewise , in Israel , ultra-orthodox Jews ( who make up 12% of the population ) have caused the coronavirus to spread rapidly by refusing to comply with the government 's containment measures . The government has now deployed security troops to police ultra-orthodox neighbourhoods in order to safeguard the wider population . <p> In India , authorities halted a planned March 25-April 2 mass Hindu pilgrimage in the sacred city of Ayodhya by proactively imposing a ban on assembly and blocking the entry of outsiders . However , the Tablighi Jamaat 's congregation in New Delhi has shown federal and state authorities in poor light . <p> Indonesia banned a similar event on Sulawesi island but not before more than 8,500 Tablighis from 10 countries had already gathered . However , India inexplicably allowed the Tablighi Jamaat activists , including foreigners , to congregate in the Capital from March 13 , a day after Delhi state declared an epidemic and shut all schools , colleges and movie theatres . Maharashtra , by contrast , cancelled permission for a parallel Tablighi Jamaat gathering in the state . <p> The New Delhi congregation stretched for 18 days until April 1 , when 2,346 individuals were evacuated . Having allowed the gathering , authorities are now trying to close the stable door after the horse has bolted , including seeking to identify and quarantine all attendees . At least 1,445 people linked to the event have tested positive for Covid-19 , with multiple deaths reported . <p> It 's a sad state of affairs that India 's national security adviser had to personally go to the Tablighi leaders to get them to end their law-breaking gathering . The government has learned little from New Delhi 's Shaheen Bagh episode . No country will allow protesters to blockade a highway even for one hour . But , here , the government put up with the months-long blockade in the hope of generating a backlash against those protesting the amended citizenship law . Instead , Shaheen Bagh prompted a similar road blockade in a northeastern Delhi suburb , triggering bloody communal rioting . <p> Tablighi Jamaat masks its millenarian philosophy and refusal to recognise national borders by claiming to be apolitical . Some intelligence agencies have linked it to the recruitment of terrorists by groups ranging from al-Qaeda and the Taliban to its two offshoots -- Harakat ul-Mujahideen and Harakat ul-Jihad-i Islami . The Jamaat , officially , however , has strongly denied these allegations . <p> India has overlooked Tablighi Jamaat 's known ties with the Pakistan military . The Tablighi Jamaat invites its star recruits from different countries to its centre in Raiwind , Pakistan , and is understood to have allowed terrorist organisations to enlist students . The US Federal Bureau of Investigation , according to a report in The New York Times in 2003 , found that al-Qaeda used the Tablighi Jamaat for recruiting new terrorists . <p> Several westerners convicted of terrorism were associated with the Tablighi Jamaat . They include " American Taliban " John Walker Lindh , " shoe bomber " Richard Reid , " dirty bomber " Jose Padilla and Lyman Harris , who sought to bomb New York City 's Brooklyn Bridge . <p> From China 's authoritarianism giving the world a horrendous pandemic to the role of religious zealots in accelerating the spread of the disease , the global costs of political and religious extremism have been laid bare . Extremism is antithetical to the social and economic well-being of societies . <p> The virulent contagions of political and religious fanaticism have become more pronounced during this pandemic , underscoring that the only way to contain the threat from extremists is to discredit their insidious ideologies . As the Algerian writer , Mouloud Benzadi has put it , " Kill extremists and more extremists will appear . Kill extremist ideology and extremism will disappear . " <p> This site and its partners use technology such as cookies to personalize content and ads and analyse traffic . By using this site you agree to its privacy policy . You can change your mind and revisit your choices at anytime in future . 
@@84509778 <p> National Guard troops stand by as people wait to be tested for Coronavirus at the State 's First Drive Through COVID-19 Mobile Testing Center at Glen Island Park in New Rochelle , New York March 13 , 2020 . ( Photo by TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> Email this article to a friend <p> When we begin to feel the worst effects of the climate crisis , are we just going to hand the country over to unelected military brass ? <p> On March 18 , New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio went on CNN and pleaded for President Trump to mobilize the U.S. military in response to coronavirus . " I want their medical teams , which are first-rate , I want their logistical support , I want their ability to get stuff from factories all over the country where they 're needed most , " de Blasio told Anderson Cooper . " The only force in America that can do it effectively and quickly is the United States military . " <p> The next day , March 19 , was the 17th anniversary of the U.S. invasion of Iraq , a catastrophic act of aggression that would go on to kill more than 1 million Iraqi people , according to one estimate . Since 2003 , that date has often been marked by anti-war protests , street blockades and demonstrations at military installations , but these actions have declined in frequency and scale as the years have passed , and on Thursday -- in quarantine -- that anniversary went largely unremarked . <p> But it needs to be remembered . As political leaders on both sides of the aisle fail to create an emergency response that can provide immediate , material relief for the millions of people desperately in need , we are seeing increasing calls to turn to the U.S. military and National Guard to fill in that gap . The desperation driving this trend is understandable , but we must not uncritically turn to military institutions as providers of " medical teams " and " logistical support " without looking at how the U.S. military itself is a purveyor of unconscionable violence , from its 2003 invasion of Iraq to its worsening of the present-day global pandemic , or how it could be used to crack down on people within the United States . <p> This is especially urgent as politicians move rapidly to pursue a military response . On Sunday night , President Trump gave orders to activate the National Guard in New York , California and Washington into federalized status , which means they will be paid for by the federal government but under the control of states . And Military Timesreports that all 50 states , Puerto Rico , Guam , the U.S. Virgin Islands and Washington , DC " have each mobilized components of their Army and Air National Guard to assist in their state 's response to the COVID-19 pandemic . " While the National Guard is a domestic force , it can be mobilized in times of war and national emergency , and it falls under the purview of the Department of Defense . Meanwhile , according toNewsweek , " the U.S. military is preparing forces to assume a larger role in the coronavirus response , including the controversial mission of quelling ' civil disturbances ' and enforcing the law . " <p> There are already signs that governments around the world are using the crisis to expand the security state . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is using the crisis to side-step legislative oversight , and an upcoming trial for corruption , to enact sweeping " security " measures . Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban is also using the crisis to seize dramatic powers that allow him to criminalize the press under the name of protecting security . We should be wary of similar maneuvers in the United States . <p> The military 's role in the global crisis <p> If our concern were providing immediate relief and support for all people harmed and threatened by the coronavirus outbreak , regardless of national origin or residence , a good step would be to stop the U.S. military from perpetrating the harm it 's presently inflicting against people who are highly vulnerable to the outbreak . Five years of a U.S.-Saudi war and blockade on Yemen has left that country 's medical system decimated : The groups Physicians for Human Rights and the Yemen-based Mwatana for Human Rights have documented 120 attacks on medical facilities from March 2015 to the end of 2018 alone , leaving the country highly vulnerable to the virus . Why are calls for an immediate end to U.S. participation in that war not considered a high-priority emergency response ? <p> When we fortify the military , we also reinforce the larger imperial apparatus it is part of . The Trump administration is acting on behalf of this imperial apparatus to tighten U.S. sanctions on Iran in the midst of a global pandemic , despite warnings that they are cutting off needed medical supplies and increasing coronavirus deaths . Iran is one of the countries hardest hit by this pandemic . Why is n't ending these sanctions , just two-and-a-half months after the Trump administration assassinated Maj. Gen. Qassim Soleimani and almost drew Iran into direct war , considered a top priority in the fight against coronavirus ? <p> U.S. military aid is enabling Israel 's 14-year economic and military siege of Gaza , one of the most densely populated places in the world , where there are now officially two confirmed cases of coronavirus . With a population of 2 million people , Gaza has only 62 ventilators . Why is n't it considered a top priority for the United States to withdraw its military aid from the siege so that life-saving medicines and supplies can get through ? <p> In Venezuela , where there are 42 confirmed cases of coronavirus , U.S. sanctions have helped push the country 's medical system to ruin , and are estimated to have killed 40,000 people from 2017 to 2018 , in part by helping erode public health , according to the Center for Economic and Policy Research . Where is the urgency around lifting those sanctions ? <p> It is no mystery what is going to happen to the people living in these places if the United States does n't act immediately to relieve the tremendous harm it is causing . While there are no confirmed cases in Yemen yet , Altaf Musani , Yemen 's World Health Organization representative , said last week " It is a perfect storm of a disaster should this virus introduce itself . " The same goes for all places where health systems and social safety nets are battered and weakened by U.S. war , occupation , proxy battle and aerial bombardments . By failing to take immediate steps to stop the harm it is doing in the midst of a global pandemic , the United States will bear responsibility for these deaths . Yet somehow this harm never factors into the domestic conversation about a military response to a crisis , even though , in a global pandemic , an outbreak in any one of these places impacts the whole world . <p> Not a public health organization <p> Discussions of the U.S. military in the context of a crisis only ever go in one direction : pouring more resources into the Pentagon . Understandably , people are desperate , and there is a dearth of large-scale institutions capable of converting abandoned buildings into hospitals , or quickly distributing tests , medical supplies and food -- acts that will be necessary to dealing with the coming deluge of coronavirus patients . Mayors and governors may very well feel that they have nowhere else to turn but the military -- a profound failure of our political system . <p> But the U.S. military is not a public health organization : It is a purveyor of wars , occupation and proxy battles , with 800 military bases around the world . We have every reason to think it would be a ferocious force policing the streets of the United States , prone to punitive responses at a time people desperately need food and rent money . When the National Guard was deployed to New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina , it took on a largely punitive law enforcement role . As the New York Timesreported on September 9 , 2005 , " New Orleans has turned into an armed camp , patrolled by thousands of local , state , and federal law enforcement officers , as well as National Guard troops and active-duty soldiers . " <p> On March 17 , Governor Gavin Newsom publicly floated the possibility of imposing martial law , a statement he later walked back . Meanwhile , according toPolitico , the Department of Justice is seeking emergency powers to detain people indefinitely without trial , citing the coronavirus crisis . The possibility that we are on the verge of expanding government powers to detain and police people domestically has troubling echoes of the post-9/11 era , which saw politicians on both sides of the aisle ram through the repressive and sweeping Patriot Act . <p> Anti-war organizers are already grappling with the questions that a supposedly " humanitarian role " for the military raises raises , particularly given the U.S. history of declaring a humanitarian mission to justify brutal wars . In a statement written for the anti-militarist organization About Face : Veterans Against War , activist and writer Drake Logan argues that , during the outbreak , " We need to draw careful lines between what is acceptable military response and what is categorically unacceptable . " Logan writes : <p> What would be categorically unacceptable to communities in the U.S. is for soldiers to have their weapons and war-grade Kevlar -- as well as other battlefield gear -- out on our streets ... We already have a highly militarized domestic police force which fills our streets with weaponry , and which daily kills innocent Americans who never have a chance to be innocent until proven guilty . We can not afford more of the same from U.S. soldiers . <p> As Lara Kiswani , the executive director of the Arab Resource and Organizing Center , tells In These Times , " A militarized response to this crisis would put those most vulnerable to this pandemic and historically marginalized communities at further risk of harm and marginalization . By instilling fear in people , such a response would discourage communities to seek critical services , or worse yet , criminalize the same people who are most at risk , in turn exacerbating this public health crisis . " <p> Expanding our political imagination <p> At the very least , the need to protect people from military force should be vociferously discussed in public forums . The fact that it 's not shows that , as a country , our government 's default posture is that of militarism , relying on the Department of Defense to perform duties that should be run by civilians . Over the long term , we must change this state of affairs . After all , the coronavirus outbreak is not the only crisis we face . When we begin to feel the worst effects of the climate crisis , are we just going to hand the country over to unelected military brass ? Each time there is drought or a super-storm , are we going to expand the security state while shrinking the welfare state ? <p> Instead of further fortifying the U.S. military during times of crisis , we need to build robust civilian social programs like Medicare for All and a Green New Deal that allow us to efficiently and effectively disburse medical care and social support both in the event of crises , and on the day to day . In theory , civilian-run , domestic institutions like FEMA should be playing this role , but having been gutted and given a limited purview , they 're not equipped to handle the scope of the current crisis . <p> But we also must not suffer from a failure of political imagination in the present moment . The United States should be spending trillions of dollars to keep afloat the millions of people who are losing their jobs in the midst of this crisis . We should be using all options on the table : transforming corporate offices and hotels into hospitals and housing for the unhoused , passing blanket moratoriums for water and electricity shut-offs , and letting people out of prisons , where the virus is spreading . " Resources and job creation can happen by caring for the community and providing social goods for everyone , instead of militarization and coming in with guns and tanks , " Cindy Wiesner , the executive director of Grassroots Global Justice Alliance , tells In These Times . " There are ways we can make demands in this moment to have a paradigm shift about what well-being and safety mean . " Critical to all this , the U.S. military must remove its boot from the necks of people around the world , who desperately need a reprieve from war and sanctions in the midst of a global pandemic . <p> Hyper-militarism may be a tempting short-term emergency strategy , but it 's ubiquity is a testament to the failures of the U.S. welfare state . Replacing it with strong public institutions under civilian control as the go-to large-scale logistical institution in times of crisis should be an urgent priority -- to get us through this crisis , and the next one . <h> Help In These Times Continue Publishing <p> Progressive journalism is needed now more than ever , and In These Times needs you . <p> " The reliance on the military for emergency response is a testament to the failures of the U.S. welfare state . " <p> Correction : The reliance on the military for emergency response is a testament to the obliteration of the U. S. welfare state . <p> Perpetually attacked in Right-wing rhetoric during the Reagan administration , the process of obliteration began in earnest under the supervision of Bill Clinton 's administration , continued through W. 's regime , and is likely to continue apace likewise in the foreseeable future with the dominant Right-wing leadership of the bipartisan Republicrat Party holding onto power . This needs to change , and we the people--to borrow a phrase--need to change it . The sooner the better . <p> As I see it from a standpoint that I think of as anarcho-socialist , the welfare state is the only state worth having period . <p> Posted by sherlockhemlock on 2020-03-29 03:26:16 <p> The professional politicians screwed up so badly all that 's left and functional is the Military ? Or is Cuomo afraid and wants martial law to protect him from a guillotine ? 
@@84520479 <h> The Blue and White leader 's colleagues and former allies have denounced him for caving to Benjamin Netanyahu -- but his conciliatory gesture is a sign of statesmanship , not weakness . <p> Israel will very likely have a new government soon . Benny Gantz made this possible by agreeing on March 26 to form a national unity government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> Gantz 's critics have savaged him for doing so . They are outraged because , after the election , Gantz was in a relatively strong position . Netanyahu 's right-wing bloc had 58 seats , but the anti-Netanyahu bloc had 62 -- including 15 seats from the largely Arab Joint List . The Joint List 's leader , Ayman Odeh , made clear the list was prepared to give Gantz the mandate to form the government and provide a critical parliamentary safety net for it even though the Joint List would remain outside of the new government . <p> However , within Gantz 's alliance , Blue and White , there were two members , Yoaz Hendel and Zvi Hauser , who declared they would not vote for a government that would depend on a party containing some leaders who have publicly supported Palestinian violence against Israel , meaning Gantz would fall short of the 61 votes needed to form a government . <p> Still , Gantz had enormous leverage because he controlled a majority of votes within the Knesset , and his critics are lambasting him for giving it away . In their eyes , he had the numbers to pass legislation -- denying anyone indicted from being able to form a government or run for election -- that would have dealt a knockout blow to Netanyahu ; instead , he broke his campaign promise not to serve in a government under Netanyahu . His former partner in Blue and White , Yair Lapid , charged that " Benny Gantz surrendered without a fight , " and another member of his alliance , Ofer Shelah , declared that " at the moment of truth , Gantz crumbled . " <p> But Gantz , a former chief of staff of the Israeli military , did n't really crumble . He put his country first . Yes , he could have pressed for the legislation denying Netanyahu a role , but he believed that would have dramatically deepened the divisions in Israel rather than overcome them . Moreover , because he knew he could not form a government without Netanyahu , he acted -- and his party split in response . <p> He explained his decision to the Knesset succinctly : " These are unusual times and they call for unusual decisions .... This is not the time for controversy and divisions . This is the time for responsible , committed , patriotic leadership . Let 's join hands and get Israel out of this crisis . " <p> Israel is indeed facing a crisis . The country is locked down . COVID-19 has exploded in Israel and , like in the United States , people are being laid off , worrying how they will pay their rent , and fearing what will happen to the economy and the health system . Gantz saw a crisis and the need to respond , rather than continue to politically maneuver and force a dreaded fourth election . <p> Gantz put unity and the country first , despite the heavy political cost he knew he would pay . Gantz 's decision reminded us of what we described in our recent book on Israeli leaders who made wrenching decisions for the sake of the country . David Ben-Gurion , Menachem Begin , Yitzhak Rabin , and Ariel Sharon were far apart ideologically , but shared the same view of a prime minister 's responsibilities and the necessities of leadership . <p> They understood what was important and acted accordingly ; they saw the need to make decisions and not avoid them or defer them to their successors ; they accepted responsibility and always saw the costs of inaction -- not just the cost of action . Most importantly , whenever they had to choose between what the country needed and what their own political base wanted , they chose the country . <p> Begin was accused of betrayal by those who had been his closest political comrades for accepting the Camp David Accords in 1978 . Sharon , too , was charged by his base with betrayal for his decision to withdraw from Gaza in 2005 . He , of course , made his decision knowing that similar charges led to the assassination of Rabin in 1995 -- an assassination triggered by extreme incitement against Rabin for having launched the Oslo peace process with the Palestine Liberation Organization and concluded an interim agreement in which the Israeli military withdrew from most cities in the West Bank . <p> Gantz was driven by his belief that the country , not politics , must take precedence in a time of emergency . <p> That 's not to say that Gantz 's move last week rises to the level of the decisions that those four leaders made . But his motivation was the same : He was driven by his belief that the country , not politics , must take precedence in a time of emergency . And he knew that in making this decision , he would split his party and perhaps cost himself any real political future . <p> In a new unity government , Gantz would likely serve as defense minister and deputy prime minister with ostensible veto power over much of what Netanyahu can do . Given his beliefs , there may well be an opportunity to reverse some worrying trends in Israel , including on challenges to core Israeli institutions such as the Supreme Court and moves toward West Bank annexation . The former threatens Israeli democracy and the rule of law . The latter , if not prevented outside of the major existing settlement blocs , will make it geographically impossible for Israelis and Palestinians to create two separate entities , leaving one state for two peoples . Gantz 's decision must be measured against this trajectory , and not against utopia . <h> Keep your eye on the ball . <p> Sign up for Foreign Policy 's latest pop-up newsletter , While You Were n't Looking , for a weekly update on the world beyond the coronavirus pandemic . Delivered Friday . <p> Historically , Israel 's greatest leaders did not fool themselves . They saw reality as it was and sought to change it . <p> We wrote our book , Be Strong and of Good Courage : How Israel 's Most Important Leaders Shaped Its Destiny , because of our fear that if Israel does not have a leader who is willing to make tough decisions and take on his political base , a two-state solution for Israelis and Palestinians will become impossible , leaving one state for two peoples -- a situation that could imperil Israel 's identity as a Jewish-majority democratic state while depriving Palestinians of basic political rights . Gantz has demonstrated that he was willing to make the tough call ; it is unclear whether Netanyahu will match Gantz 's nobility of purpose in putting the country first and stopping the erosion of Israel 's institutions and the march toward a binational state . <p> More trouble is coming , whether it is during the brinkmanship in finalizing the formation of a new government or in the coming months . After members of the Israeli political right momentarily hailed Gantz for his statesmanship and for breaking the impasse after three inconclusive elections , they have already begun chipping away at his standing . Some Likud parliamentarians are now questioning the unity deal , asking how there can be parity in a government when there is a disparity in seats . ( The right-wing bloc has anywhere from 52 to 58 seats , depending on Netanyahu 's fractious ties with the pro-settler faction led by defense minister Naftali Bennett . Gantz 's bloc will have 20 , counting three seats from Labor . ) <p> In addition , those on the right , including Bennett and Ayelet Shaked , are insisting that Netanyahu must use the presidency of U.S. President Donald Trump and the highly controversial Trump peace plan to press ahead with immediate annexation of the settlements and the Jordan Valley before the U.S. election in November . These lawmakers are calling for Netanyahu to unilaterally annex the Jordan Valley , the eastern frontier of the West Bank abutting Jordan , which is particularly sensitive for Israelis , Palestinians , and Jordanians alike . <p> The differences over unilateral annexation constitute the biggest issue still to be resolved before finalizing the new government , with Netanyahu pressing for a timeline for annexation and Gantz resisting that for two reasons : First , he believes Israel must put all its energies over the next six months into dealing with COVID-19 and all its implications ; and second , he feels the annexation called for in the Trump plan should only be implemented in coordination with the Egyptians , Jordanians , and Palestinians . In other words , annexation must not take place unilaterally . <p> Until now , Gantz has maintained that position , though there are reports that the two have reached a compromise , with Netanyahu permitted to raise annexation in July -- but only able to implement it if there is both agreement with the Trump administration and international consultations . The latter condition reflects the Gantz position , particularly because no one other than the United States has supported unilateral annexation . <p> Netanyahu will certainly have to resist people whispering in his ear that Gantz has no options and can be easily marginalized , having burned bridges with his own alliance . <p> Assuming the government forms , Netanyahu will be committed to stepping down as prime minister in September 2021 , in accordance with the rotation agreed upon in the unity government deal . But doubts remain strong that he will actually live up to the agreement . He will certainly have to resist people whispering in his ear that Gantz has no options and can be easily marginalized , having burned bridges with his own alliance . <p> So the question remains how Netanyahu will use the next 17 months . Will he adopt for a " country first " approach in order to prepare a dignified exit , by seeking to focus on the coronavirus emergency and then looking for a gradual way out of the deep impasse with the Palestinians ? <p> Or will he instead adopt a " base first " approach -- which is how he has governed since 2015 ? A base-first approach would ensure that this power-sharing arrangement with Gantz either does not materialize or is short-lived . Now Netanyahu has to decide whether the relationship with Gantz is merely a tactical maneuver , or whether it reflects a change of heart for a leader nearing the end of his career who wants to leave a mark in the tradition of Israel 's great historic figures . <p> Gantz has made his choice ; now , Netanyahu must make his . <p> Dennis Ross is the former U.S. envoy to the Middle East and counselor at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy . He is the author , with David Makovsky , of Be Strong and of Good Courage : How Israel 's Most Important Leaders Shaped Its Destiny . Twitter : @AmbDennisRoss <p> David Makovsky is the Ziegler distinguished fellow and director of the Project on Arab-Israel Relations at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy . Between 2013-2014 he served in the Office of the Secretary of State as a senior adviser to the Special Envoy for Israeli-Palestinian Negotiations . Twitter : @DavidMakovsky 
@@84530177 <p> JNS.org -- Omar Barghouti , co-founder of the BDS movement , said in a video on Sunday on Facebook that if Israel discovers a cure for coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) , then cooperation with the Jewish state is acceptable . <p> " If Israel finds a cure for cancer or for a virus , then there is no problem to cooperate with it , " said Barghouti . <p> The BDS leader also said that if Israel were to find a cure for cancer , for example , then there would be no problem to work with Israel to save millions of lives . <p> " But I believe that we are not yet in the stage that we need Israel in an urgent way , and it is n't like anyone else can save us but Israel . If that was indeed the case , then saving lives is more important than anything else , " he said . <h> Related coverage <p> A French Jewish woman who risked her own life to save Jewish children from the clutches of the Nazis has ... <p> " Under the excuse of fighting the coronavirus , we must not have a ' honeymoon ' with Israel , " he continued , adding that it is acceptable to get medical equipment from the Jewish state since cooperation in this way " is not considered as normalization . " <p> While experts said that there has been a " significant and positive shift " in cooperation between Israel and the Palestinians due to COVID-19 , much uncertainty remains regarding what will happen if the situation in the PA and Gaza deteriorates. 
@@31767579 <h> Gaza factory manufactures Israel 's coronavirus protective gear <h> Despite rising demand , Bawab said that he has yet to receive orders from the Palestinian market in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank . <p> By LEON SVERDLOV <p> APRIL 2 , 2020 07:14 <p> A Palestinian worker makes a protective suit at a factory amid concerns over the spread of the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , east of Gaza City March 29 , 2020 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/MOHAMMED SALEM ) <p> Gaza 's Unipal factory was transformed to produce around 20,000 surgical masks per day , all of which are delivered to Israel , Ynet reported on Wednesday . <p> The factory , which usually manufactures clothes for Israel 's fashion industry , was heavily impacted by the lockdown measures taken by the cabinet in order to stop the coronavirus outbreak in Israel , according to Ynet . <p> The new regulations , which have shut down the fashion industry completely , stopped all orders from the Strip , forcing the factory 's owner , Nabil Bawab , to seek ways to save his business . <p> " I have 850 workers at the factory , " Bawab told Ynet . <p> " Instead of shutting down the factory , we decided to transform it , reaching two goals : continuing to provide for hundreds of families in Gaza , and assisting the public by expanding the supply of masks and protective gear amid rising demand , " he said . <p> The factory manufactures around 20,000 face masks and some 2,000 protective suits daily , with all of its medical production delivered to Israel . Bawab told Ynet that , although the amount of Israeli importers he has signed contracts with is rising , the product is not provided to Israeli hospitals directly . <p> " The economy collapsed at once because of the crisis and people are looking for sources of income , " Bawab explained . " Many of them took this direction and are ordering the masks through us . " According to Bawab , the factory works in accordance with the official restrictions . <p> " We work in shifts with 200 workers per shift so as not to cause excessive density in the factory , " he told Ynet . " We have a professional team that sprays and sanitizes the factory once every two hours , " he continued , saying that " our workers change their gloves and protective gear several times every shift . " <p> Despite rising demand , Bawab said that he has yet to receive orders from the Palestinian market in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank . <p> " No Palestinian importer has yet made an order through us asking to manufacture masks , " Bawab told Ynet . " There are business negotiations with international organizations in Gaza to produce masks but we are yet to have reached an agreement . " <p> Gazans are only allowed to trade with Israel and the Palestinian Authority . Since Hamas took over the Gaza Strip in a violent revolt in June 2007 , Israel has declared the strip a " hostile territory , " placing it under blockade . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31770475 <h> Hamas : We are flexible on a prisoner swap with Israel <h> Sinwar said that the indirect negotiations between Hamas and Israel over a prisoner exchange were suspended after the start of the political crisis in Israel . <p> The parents of fallen IDF Lt. Hadar Goldin with Members of Knesset hold signs reading " they 're this close " at a protest near the Gaza border , calling for the bodies of their son and another IDF soldier to be returned <p> ( photo credit : MISDAR HADAR ) <p> Hamas said on Tuesday that it was willing to be " flexible " regarding a prisoner exchange with Israel , adding that the ball was now in the Israeli court . <p> Earlier this week , Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar indicated his group 's readiness to make concessions in order to reach a prisoner swap deal with Israel . <p> Hamas , he said , was prepared to make a " partial concession " on the issue in return for the release of elderly , female and minor prisoners held in Israeli prisons , in the context of a humanitarian initiative in light of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic . <p> Sinwar said that the indirect negotiations between Hamas and Israel over a prisoner exchange were suspended after the start of the political crisis in Israel . <p> Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem said on Tuesday that his group " affirms the initiative made by its leader , Yahya Sinwar , regarding the release of the Israelis it is holding in the Gaza Strip in return for the release of a number of Palestinian prisoners , particularly women , the elderly and minors . <p> " Hamas will deal in a responsible manner with any real response to this initiative , " Qassem said . <p> In response to Sinwar 's remark , the Prime Minister 's Office said in a statement that Israel is open to negotiations on a prisoner release with Hamas . <p> Israel 's Coordinator for Captives and MIAs , Yair Bloom , as well as National Security Council and defense officials , are ready for " constructive action " regarding the two civilians and the remains of IDF soldiers Hadar Goldin and Oron Shaul , the statement said . It also called for immediate negotiations with Hamas through mediators to reach an agreement . <p> Musa Dudeen , a senior Hamas official in charge of the " prisoners ' portfolio " in the group , said that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would bear " full responsibility " for the failure of efforts to reach a prisoner exchange agreement . <p> Dudeen said that Sinwar 's initiative " stemmed from the great responsibility Hamas feels regarding the issue of the Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli prisons . " <p> He added : " We 're not talking about an initiative : rather , we are talking about a willingness on the part of the resistance to be flexible on a specific part regarding the captured Zionist soldiers if Israel shows a real and serious intention in dealing with this file . " <p> Dudeen also said that the ball was now in the Israeli court , adding that " there 's no need to send initiatives through mediators . " <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84573476 <h> The Coordinator of Government Activities in the Palestinian Territories ( COGAT ) has announced Sunday that it intends to transfer an advanced medical device , known as PCR machine or thermal cycler . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> APRIL 13 , 2020 02:51 <p> A policeman , wearing a mask as a precaution against the coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , stands guard as Palestinians wait outside a bank to withdraw cash , in Gaza City March 29 , 2020 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/MOHAMMED SALEM ) <p> The Coordinator of Government Activities in the Palestinian Territories ( COGAT ) announced on Sunday that it intends to transfer an advanced medical device , known as a PCR machine or thermal cycler , to detect cases of coronavirus in the Gaza Strip , according to a press release from the IDF unit . The PCR machines will be sent to the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip via the Erez Crossing . <p> The decision to transfer the rapid diagnostics device was done in light of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and lack of healthcare infrastructure to manage an increase in testing in the Gaza Strip . The new device will allow Gaza health authorities to double the number of tests carried out per day . <p> Since no direct relations exists between COGAT , a section of the IDF , and Hamas authorities in Gaza , the World Health Organization ( WHO ) in conjunction with other international organizations agreed to donate tens of thousands of dollars to purchase the device and coordinate its transfer to the Shafaa Hospital in Gaza . In addition to the device , WHO also donated 500 test kits and reagents , to be used in coronavirus testing . <p> The initiative is part of a number of actions coordinated by COGAT to combat the spread of coronavirus , including providing virus detection kits , protective kits for medical teams , drugs and antiseptics via donation by the international community . <p> " The Director of Coordination and Liaison to the Gaza Strip sees the utmost importance in leading cooperation and coordination with the international community in the joint mission to curb the spread of the dangerous coronavirus in the Gaza Strip - with the understanding that together we will succeed , " said Col. Iyad Sarhan , Head of Coordination and Liaison to the Gaza Strip . <p> " The success of us all is a real victory in the shadow of the crisis and this challenging time . We will continue to lead such coordination in collaboration with members of the international community at all times , and do as much as we can for the robust health of Gaza residents , " Sarhan concluded . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84603970 <h> Palestinians instructed to pray at home during Ramadan due to coronavirus <h> Mosques in east Jerusalem , the West Bank and the Gaza Strip have been closed since the outbreak of the virus last month . <p> Palestinian men prays near the Dome of the Rock on the compound known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary and to Jews as Temple Mount in Jerusalem 's Old City January 31 , 2020 <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/AMMAR AWAD ) <p> Palestinian Mufti Sheikh Mohammed Hussein announced on Wednesday that Muslims must hold prayers during the fasting month of Ramadan at home and not in mosques , to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic . <p> Mosques in east Jerusalem , the West Bank and the Gaza Strip have been closed since the outbreak of the virus last month . <p> " The taraweeh prayers will be held at home , because reopening the mosques is linked to the end of the coronavirus crisis , " Hussein said , referring to the daily ritual prayers performed by Muslims at night during Ramadan , which begins next week . <p> The mufti also ruled that due to the pandemic , Palestinians will not be required to look at the night sky for the slight crescent moon ( hilal ) that marks the beginning of the next month . <p> The Islamic calendar is lunar-based , with each month coinciding with the phases of the moon and lasting either 29 or 30 days . Traditionally , Muslims mark the beginning of an Islamic month by looking for the crescent moon . <p> Hussein said that the task of watching for the crescent moon would be limited to religious clerics and the Palestinian Astronomers Association . <p> The announcement came two days after Saudi Arabia also announced the suspension of the Ramadan prayers . <p> Saudi Minister of Islamic Affairs Abdul Lateef al-Sheikh said that the daily obligatory prayers observed by Muslims are more important than taraweeh prayers . Instructions to stay home were in line with advice from the Health Ministry , he added . " We ask Allah the Almighty to accept taraweeh prayers whether held at mosques or homes , which we think is better for people 's health , " al-Sheikh said . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84606577 <p> While there have been numerous reports of medical supplies arriving to the country , there are still concerns that if the pandemic worsens in Israel , there may be a lack of essential equipment , such as ventilators . <p> In countries where supplies , including personal protective equipment are scarce , medical personnel have been forced to make their own gear with garbage bags and other items . <p> According to Israeli media outlets , Israel competes with other countries , using the Mossad among other services , to purchase medical supplies to ensure its population will not be placed in such a situation . <p> Israel also extended medical help to the Gaza Strip and the Palestinian Authority , as both Israelis and Palestinians live close to one another and an outbreak in one population is likely to cross into the other . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31785965 <h> The Essential Work of Farmers <p> Despite the many coronavirus lockdowns around the world , people still need to eat , and agricultural work continues -- but with many new challenges . Some crops that were ready to harvest are being plowed under or allowed to rot in the fields , because seasonal workers are restricted from traveling , and many buyers have temporarily closed . Unwanted flowers are being used as feed for livestock , and some fishermen are donating their catch to needy families . The farm workers who do have jobs worry about possible exposure to the virus , and have little protection , but many are glad to have a paycheck right now . In some places , the demand for organic produce has gone up , and farmers are working to get their crops to smaller markets as well as larger warehouses . <p> Edson , an organic producer , works on his crops in Ipero , Brazil , on April 1 , 2020 . Edson and other producers continue to grow organic food in partnership with Armazem Terra Viva . They sell to stores around Sorocaba and Sao Paulo . During the isolation caused by the coronavirus pandemic , the demand for healthy foods has doubled. # <p> Lettuce grows in a greenhouse in Dossenheim , near Heidelberg , Germany , on March 26 , 2019 . Many of the foreign seasonal workers who would usually help harvest crops are unable to enter the country because of travel bans imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus. # <p> Locals help wash and sort asparagus at a farm during the coronavirus crisis on April 9 , 2020 , near Tettnang , Germany . Because of travel restrictions , many farms do not have enough workers and have appealed to locals , among them students , to help during this year 's harvest season. # <p> Agricultural workers from Bud Farms harvest celery for both American and export consumption in Oxnard , California , on March 26 , 2020 . Many of those working in agriculture in the U.S. have become essential workers during the pandemic , helping to ensure America 's food supply does not dry up as so many other business close down . These agricultural workers are mostly migrant Spanish-speakers . They earn just above minimum wage and in a good six-day week , working 10 hours a day , they can earn about $1,100 . At the same time , they have no masks , no gloves , and no sense of social distancing or testing to prevent spreading the virus among one another if one of the workers contracts the disease. # <p> A farmer is pictured amid a large stock of potatoes that he ca n't sell to restaurants or catering services , as they are closed because of the coronavirus outbreak , at his property in Purmer , Netherlands , on April 3 , 2020. # <p> DiMare farm manager , Jim Husk , walks among plants in a tomato field , in Homestead , Florida , on March 28 , 2020 . Thousands of acres of fruits and vegetables grown in Florida are being plowed over or left to rot because farmers ca n't sell to restaurants , theme parks , or schools nationwide that have closed because of the coronavirus. # <p> A fishing boat is seen from aboard the trawler Marianna , as it leaves Italy 's Fiumicino port to go out to sea for a fishing trip , in the Tyrrhenian Sea , on April 1 , 2020 . Italy 's fishermen still go out to sea at night , but not as frequently in recent weeks because demand is down amid the country 's devastating coronavirus outbreak. # <p> Fisherman Giuseppe Temperani gives freshly caught fish to volunteers who will deliver it to needy families , as Italy remains on lockdown , in the Tuscan city of Castiglione della Pescaia , Italy , on April 7 , 2020 . Temperani has been donating his entire catch to the poor since the crisis began. # <p> A Palestinian farmer wearing a mask feeds discarded chrysanthemum flowers to sheep at a farm in Rafah , in the southern Gaza Strip , on April 16 , 2020 . Palestinian farmers salvaged some of their unwanted flower crops to use as feed , after the market for flowers collapsed during the pandemic. # <p> Henry Vasques , 26 , has been an agricultural laborer for nine years . He is seen with Juana Gonzalez , 28 , who has worked for 10 years . Henry worries about the coronavirus , especially working so close to other laborers all day long without protection . " I 'm uncomfortable , " he said , " but I must work . " Juana is equally worried but is also grateful to be working at a time of mass unemployment. # <p> A dairy farmer feeds a calf milk from a bottle , a day after Canada 's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the federal government would offer an additional $5 billion CAD ( $3.4 billion USD ) line of credit for farmers and agricultural producers to help them through the coronavirus crisis , in Carrying Place , Ontario , Canada , on March 24 , 2020. # 
@@84613869 <p> American Netflix subscribers are quite familiar with the term " Netflix original . " The moniker denotes a film or series that was produced by , and made exclusively for , the streaming service . But sometimes , the title can be a little misleading . A number of international series are dubbed Netflix originals once Netflix gains the U.S. rights to them , even if they aired elsewhere first . One of the more popular of these foreign " Netflix originals " is the Israeli action-drama series Fauda . The series debuts its third season on the streamer this month , but when will Fauda season 4 be on Netflix , too ? <p> Before it airs on Netflix , Fauda first airs on the YES satellite network in its home country of Israel . The most recent season , season 3 , premiered on YES in Dec. 26 , 2019 , but did n't make its Netflix debut until four months later on Apr. 16 , 2020 . And in all likelihood , season 4 will probably follow the same course . A fourth season of Fauda has not technically been greenlit , but series co-creator Avi Issacharoff has announced that it is currently in the works . " We are working right now on developing the fourth season of Fauda , " Issacharoff said at the English language premiere of season 3 in February , according to i24News . And since the show is a hit on Netflix , you can bet that season 4 will eventually make its way to the streaming network after it debuts on YES . <p> Netflix on YouTube <p> Fauda -- which is Arabic for " chaos " -- follows an elite branch of the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) that operates undercover in Palestinian territory . The series ' protagonist is IDF agent Doron Kavillio ( series co-creator Lior Raz ) , who poses as an Arab-Israeli boxing instructor in the West Bank while pursuing Palestinian terrorists . The third season of the series turns up the heat even further by switching the action to the Gaza Strip , the most hotly-contested and controversial area in the region . <p> Though the show has faced backlash and controversy , Fauda has also been praised for representing Palestinians better than arguably any other Israeli TV series ; even if the show does n't go far enough . " It 's the first TV series that showed the Palestinian narrative in a way that you can actually feel something for someone who acts like a terrorist , " Israeli journalist Itay Stern said , according to The Guardian . " You can understand the motives and the emotion and that 's unique , because until that point you could n't really see it on TV . " <p> Whether you 're a fan of Fauda or not , the series is undeniably a hit . And for that reason , you should fully expect season 4 of Fauda to eventually arrive on Netflix. 
@@31792378 <h> Physical distancing does n't absolve us of social responsibility <p> The Buffalo News has been working hard to keep our community well-informed during this crisis . <p> However , when people use the phrase " social distancing , " it should be replaced with the more accurate and helpful phrase " physical distancing . " That 's what 's needed -- not " social " distancing . <p> The WNY Peace Center made that shift from the beginning -- and quickly learned that the World Health Organization had done the very same thing . <p> We need each other more than ever , and now we need to -- and largely are -- making sure we care for ourselves and each other . We share , help , mourn with and/or encourage -- all social and vital . And worldwide interconnectedness is increasingly obvious . ( Happy 50th Earth Day ! ) <p> This crisis gives us the opportunity to put people and the planet before domination and greed . It reminds us of the importance of caring for the more vulnerable -- locally and globally . <p> This season of holy days reminds us of the same things . <p> We are all in this together . We are our siblings ' keepers ; if we save one life , it is as if we saved the whole world . Let 's work for and fund life-sustaining efforts , not efforts to control , intimidate and even kill . <p> So , why are we still enacting or enabling military aggression in long-suffering countries and regions ? For example , in Afghanistan , Gaza and Yemen , where we recently cut U.S. aid to the biggest humanitarian crisis in the world , and that even before Yemen 's first Covid-19 case , which was just reported . <p> Why are we still -- and increasingly -- sanctioning other countries ? Such as Iran , Venezuela and Cuba -- whose doctors are heroes , being sent worldwide to provide medical aid ( partners , too , with Roswell Park and leaders in cancer treatment advances ) . Sanctions hurt the country 's people , not its government . <p> The current administration is largely busy misleading , making excuses , firing those in place to ensure accountability for a half-trillion fund for corporations and industries , and -- worst of all -- refusing to put mechanisms in place to ensure a fair and safe election . <p> We must urge our congressional reps and senators , and even more critically , urge our friends and family in other states , to urge their electeds , to : <p> Include funding for #VoteByMail elections in the upcoming bailout package <p> Fund the #PeoplesBailout , that is , for individuals and families , not corporations and industries <p> Stop our military aggression and enabling , and use the freed-up funds to finance life-sustaining efforts , both at home and abroad <p> Free nonviolent inmates held , unsafely , in detention . They are vulnerable to the virus in innumerable ways . <p> Local and regional work lobbying our elected officials is also needed : to have more local inmates released ; water turned back on ( with the onus on the Water Authority to have personnel go check on homes where the water has been turned off ) ; economic relief . <p> Crisis = Opportunity . Let 's focus on safety and healing for people and the planet ; if we can move the powers that be , we 'll all win . <p> Victoria Ross is executive director of the WNY Peace Center and consults for the Interfaith Peace Network . 
@@84666578 <p> Dr. Ahmad Tibi , a member of the Israeli parliament , gives a public health briefing ahead of Ramadan . A Palestinian story invisible to the New York Times . April 18 , 2020 . Screenshot from twitter post . <p> As the coronavirus pandemic continues on its grim march across the globe , news outlets everywhere are including inspiring human interest stories to partly compensate for the horror . Add to this the New York Times 's long tradition of doing positive articles about Israel , and you have today 's latest : " ' It 's Really a Gift ' : Israeli Hospitals Let Relatives Say Goodbye Up Close . " <p> David Halbfinger reports that until April 2 , Israeli hospitals followed standard practice elsewhere with highly contagious coronavirus patients -- not allowing relatives at their bedsides even when they were dying . But Tel Aviv 's Sourasky Medical Center decided to change its policy , and provide family members with protective gear . Halbfinger describes at length the final visit that Elisheva Stern was able to have with her 75-year-old father before he passed . <p> Halbfinger 's report is moving . But in a divided land like Israel/Palestine , one question jumps to mind : are Palestinians , either in Israeli hospitals or in Gaza and the West Bank , also now allowed to visit their dying relatives in hospitals ? <p> And there are other human interest stories that the New York Times has yet to cover , even though they have been reported elsewhere . It turns out that a large number of health workers in Israel are actually Palestinians ; this site cited Israeli reports nearly 4 weeks ago that " The Israeli health system would collapse without Palestinians . " Just today , the indispensable Israeli newspaper Haaretz has a feature on the Majadlas , a large Palestinian Israeli family with 5 doctors who are fighting the pandemic . <p> Here 's Dina Kraft 's opening paragraph : <p> Dr. Riad Majadla 's 20-hour days begin in darkness , before sunrise . He awakens at 5 A.M. at home in the Arab village of Baka al-Garbiyeh in central Israel , and is soon driving south to Sharon Hospital 50 kilometers ( 30 miles ) away , where he is the director of the coronavirus department at the only hospital in the country that 's specifically designated for those who who have contracted the virus . <p> Who is going to stop reading after that introduction ? <p> So far the New York Times has avoided this angle . The paper last week did include another human interest story , a biased article glorifying Mossad , the Israeli spy agency , for supposedly using guile to obtain medical equipment from outside Israel to fight the virus . But it turns out Mossad may have duped Times reporter Halbfinger . Yossi Merman , in Haaretz , pointed out days later that <p> Contrary to the flattering reports , including in The New York Times , about the cloak-and-dagger operations during the coronavirus crisis , most of the equipment was purchased officially in Europe and China . <p> Mistakes happen . Fortunately for the Times , the Majadla family of doctors is outspoken and accessible , and would doubtless be happy to talk to Times reporters . Listen to Dr. Riad Majadla respond to Benjamin Netanyahu 's racist anti-Arab insinuations : <p> If I am seen as a second-class citizen , how is it that I am head of my hospital 's coronavirus department ? It 's painful to see the slurs . We see ourselves as an integral part of this country and demand full equality . 
@@84672863 <h> IDF halts coronavirus testing in Gaza <h> The decision due to coordination issues inside the army , <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> APRIL 22 , 2020 08:30 <p> Security forces loyal Hamas , wearing personal protective equipment as a precaution against the coronavirus ( COVID-19 ) pandemic , check the papers of an intensive care ambulance at the Rafah border crossing with Egypt , in the southern Gaza Strip , on April 13 , 2020 , after the crossing was temporarily r <p> ( photo credit : ABED RAHIM KHATIB/FLASH90 ) <p> Defense Minister Naftali Bennett has ordered a stop to testing for COVID-19 in the Gaza Strip , Maariv reported . <p> Previously , the IDF had said that it would conduct about 50 tests per day for Gaza residents at the military laboratory in Tzrifin . The decision to cancel testing was made after the IDF 's initiative was not approved on the government level , and Bennett was not notified of the decision due to coordination issues inside the army , Maariv said . In total , only about 100 tests were done over the course of two days . <p> IDF Chief of Staff Aviv Kochavi had appointed his deputy , Maj. Gen. Eyal Zamir , to head a special team to develop a plan to run coronavirus testing and offer humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank . Under the plan , the IDF would do the testing , and the Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories ( COGAT ) would bring the tests through Erez Crossing to be done in Tzrifin . <p> However , coordination between these two bodies broke down somewhere in the process , and the project was halted , Maariv explained . <p> According to the report , officials across the board stressed the importance of doing effective testing in Gaza , and expressed frustration with the plan 's failure . There was agreement that the failure lied in coordination issues , and not Bennett 's decision . <p> Hamas officials have warned of a " catastrophe " if the virus spreads among the two million Palestinians living there . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84732865 <h> " Every click , every view , of the OneFamily on-line ceremony tells each family of the soldiers and the victims of terror - We are there for you now . " <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> APRIL 28 , 2020 03:18 <p> One Family hosts Memorial Day Ceremony for victims of Terror <p> ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> Advertisement <p> As coronavirus drives everyone indoors for Remembrance Day , the OneFamily Fund , which works with more than 3,000 families of victims of terrorism , held a memorial ceremony on Monday . <p> Most years , One Family 's moving memorial ceremony , held in the courtyard of its central Jerusalem headquarters , is overflowing with hundreds of participants . This year , the program will be broadcast on Israel 's Channel 7 , the Hebrew Srugim news site , and the organization 's Facebook and Youtube pages . It will also appear Tuesday afternoon at 12 pm on Israel 's Channel 20 . The ceremony will take place in Hebrew and English and will be adapted for the hearing impaired . <p> Among the speakers who will tell their story : Rabbi Eitan Schnerb - the late Rina 's father , who was murdered in a terror attack near Dolev in August 2019 and last Wednesday celebrated the birth of their daughter with his wife Shira ; Nea Ansbacher , the late Ori 's mother , who was murdered in a terror attack Ein Yael in February 2019 ; Ariel Imas-Yurfan , the son of the late Talia and Yitzhak Imes , who were murdered together in August 2010 ; Orit Mark Ettinger , daughter of the late Rabbi Mickey Mark , who was murdered in July 2016 ; Ricky Marsheh , sister of the late Major Gad Marsheh , who was killed in December 2000 ; Linoy Basson , sister of Sergeant Gal Basson , who was killed in Operation Cliff Eitan , in July 2014 ; Zach Ajami , the son of the late Joseph ( Yossi ) Ajami , who was murdered in September 2002 and Omar Kit , father of Sgt. Ofir Kit , who fell beside a fisherman in the Gaza Strip in June 2001 . <p> " Family 's ca n't touch and cry on the piece of ground where their loved one lies still , " said the association 's CEO , Chantal Belzberg . " But maybe even more importantly , the one and a half million strangers , friends and relatives of the bereaved families who would otherwise come to the cemeteries and their homes to embrace them with love and compassion , will not be with them on this most difficult of days . Those warm hugs give them the strength to live on , one more year . That 's what the bereaved families need the most today . <p> " OneFamily wants to do everything we can to fill that need ; a virtual embrace , " she continued . " Every click , every view , of the OneFamily on-line ceremony tells each family of the soldiers and the victims of terror - We are there for you now ; just not in person . We care about you . We have not forgotten your loved ones . We have not forgotten you , nor the pain you carry inside you every day . This year , that 's how we can comfort the bereaved families . " <p> OneFamily is also asking that people register on its website to make a short phone call for the bereaved families , " helping us hug them from afar , " Belzberg said . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31809861 <h> ' Le Pen 's party a living expression of anti-Semitism ' <p> Paris , France - On July 16 and 17 , 1942 , French police rounded up 13,152 Jews - including 4,000 children - and held them at an indoor cycle-racing track not far from the Eiffel Tower . <p> Later , they were moved to an internment camp in Drancy , a northeastern suburb . From there , they were shipped in rail cattle cars to Auschwitz for their mass murder . <p> Deportations continued for two more years after the so-called " Vel ' d'Hiv roundup " , until the end of the German occupation . In total , at least 77,000 Jews living in France were swept to their deaths in concentration camps - most in Auschwitz , some on French soil . <p> It was not until 53 years later in 1995 that a French leader recognised France 's role in the massacre , which took place under the collaborationist Vichy regime - the common name of the official French state headed by Marshal Philippe Petain during World War II . <p> The monument for the commemoration of the Vel ' d'Hiv roundup Raymond Bobar/Al Jazeera <p> Then , President Jacques Chirac apologised on behalf of the French policemen and civil servants who served in the raid . <p> " Yes , the criminal folly of the occupiers was seconded by the French , by the French state , " he said . " France , on that day , committed an irreparable act . It failed to keep its word and delivered those under its protection to their executioners . " <p> Until that moment , the official line was that France or the French Republic bears no responsibility and all blame should be directed at Vichy - a stance considered to be anti-Semitic . <p> Now , as she bids for France 's top job , the far-right leader and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has recirculated this argument - a move that would not have been at all surprising had it been played by her more openly bigoted father and founder of the National Front party ( FN ) , Jean-Marie Le Pen , but which sent the media into minor shock coming from his daughter , who is attempting to detoxify the party 's fascist , racist and anti-Semitic image . <p> " France is not responsible for the Vel ' d'Hiv , " she told RTL radio last month . " Those responsible were those in power then . This is not France . " <h> ' FN a living expression of anti-Semitism ' <p> " Marine Le Pen has been working hard to give the impression that her party has changed , but it only fools the foolish . Her recent statement ... indicates very well the shallowness of the party 's metamorphosis , " Maxime Benatouil , co-chair of the French Jewish Union for Peace ( L'UJFP ) , told Al Jazeera . <p> On Wednesday , with four days to go until the second round , Le Pen 's centrist rival Emmanuel Macron challenged her interpretation of responsibility in a televised debate . <p> " The fact that Vichy is France is so obvious it does n't need to be discussed , " Laurent Levy , an author and activist , told Al Jazeera . " Le Pen 's party was founded by collaborationists ... it had a bad smell when she said that . " <p> Le Pen was also possibly trying to appease the traditional anti-Semites that raised her within the FN , from which she has temporarily stood down ahead of Sunday 's decisive vote , Levy said . <p> ' The fight against anti-Semitism has been mostly used as a weapon of Islamophobia , ' Levy said Raymond Bobar/Al Jazeera <p> " She has to reassure part of her party , those who do n't recognise the party she has developed , those who say she 's now inside the system instead of against it , " he said . " Maybe she just thought she was being patriotic by saying France has a clean record and is perfect . " <p> Macron , on the other hand , has acknowledged the stained pages of French history . He has visited sites related to the history of collaboration , and while in Algeria in February condemned France 's colonial past as " a crime against humanity " . <p> " He does not want to be held responsible for not preventing what happened in the past to happen in the near future , " Nacira Guenif , a sociologist and professor at the University of Paris 8 , told Al Jazeera . " The FN is a living expression of anti-Semitism in France . The reasons why it has not disappeared have to do with the fact the French are still very keen on remaining white . It 's a matter of Frenchness seen as whiteness . <p> " Although it is widely considered that Jews have become ' white ' , for those who consider that Jews can not be white , for them anti-Semitism still makes sense . It 's an identitarian resource that they exploit very strongly . " <h> The rise of anti-Semitic attacks <p> There are between 500,000 and 600,000 Jews living in France . <p> CRIF , or the Representative Council of Jewish Institutions in France , says that anti-Semitism has increased since 2002 . <p> Among the gravest examples are the 2006 murder of 23-year-old Ilan Halimi ; the 2012 shooting at a Jewish school in Toulouse that left three children and a teacher dead ; and the killing of four Jews in 2015 at a kosher supermarket in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo attack . <p> According to CRIF and reports in some Israeli media , a feeling of insecurity has led to an increase in the number of Jews settling in Israel . <p> However , some argue that the issue has become politicised . <p> CRIF says in 2013 , 3,500 left for Israel , up from an average of between 1,000 and 1,800 per year . In 2014 , that number rose to 7,000 and then 8,000 in 2015 . <p> " There is a climate of fear among Jewish religious and secular communities , no doubt about that , " said Benatouil , of L'UJFP . " However , it is very hard to say whether France-based Zionist figures are n't simply adding fuel on fire by making it bigger than it actually is . " <p> Last year , the number of those relocating to Israel dropped to 5,000 - a relative decrease . <p> " Aliyah Jews relocating to Israel has been promoted in France by the Israeli state for a long time , " said Guenif . " There is some sort of overstatement about moving to Israel since the attacks . " <p> ' The FN is a living expression of anti-Semitism in France ' Raymond Bobar/Al Jazeera <p> " During the 2000s , when there was this increase of anti-Semitic acts or statements against Jews , there was strong promotion of returning to Israel inside the Jewish community in France . There was a very strong policy of getting them to move to Israel ... Aliyah is not as strong as it seems , " she said , adding that many who leave - a majority of whom are of North African descent - soon return because of racism in Israel . <h> ' The divisive politics of white French supremacy ' <p> According to a 2014 study by Fondapol , a think-tank , three groups are responsible for rising hate crimes against Jews : the extreme right , the extreme left and Muslims . <p> " Anti-Semitic acts are often conducted by young Muslims , " Robert Ejnes , the head of CRIF , told Al Jazeera . " All terrorist attacks have been made in the name of Allah . We know this is a hijacking of Islam by these jihadists . " <p> However , many believe that while Muslims are at times responsible for anti-Semitism , Europe 's largest Muslim minority of five million is too often grouped together as one homogenous group , scapegoated , and demonised as the first anti-Semites of France . <p> " The fight against anti-Semitism has been mostly used as a weapon of Islamophobia , " said Laurent . " People say anti-Semitism is only something proper to the Muslim part of the population , but the evidence that that is not true has risen . " <p> The charge of anti-Semitism is often directed at those who question Israeli policy and argue against Zionism - including Muslim critics . <p> " Some Jews in France ... feel like they are themselves under attack when we denounce the crimes of Israel , " said Levy , adding that the already heated debate over the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in France intensified during the Israeli bombardment of Gaza in 2014 . <p> But reports of violence on the street between Jewish and Muslim communities are exaggerated , Levy said . <p> The Grand Synagogue of Paris Raymond Bobar/Al Jazeera <p> " There might be tiny problems here or there , but I would n't say that when a group of men wearing the kippah pass some men with beards , there is an electricity . I would also add that the image of a man with a beard is not the typical Muslim in France . " <p> " Anti-Semitic acts could be from all parts , but I 'm not sure Muslims are so keen on desecrating tombs in cemeteries , " said Guenif . " The divisive politics of white French supremacy are effective in dividing and pitting minorities , one against the other . " <p> Another concern is how France deals with its various minorities . <p> " The problem does not lie with Judaism and Islam , or between Muslims and Jews . The problem is political , " said Benatouil . " When you have a state which would defend Israel no matter what , do everything it can to preserve the memory of the Jewish sufferings while doing too little or nothing with the memory of other communities , what do you think happens ? " <p> He added that Muslims , often targeted as Islam is conflated with " terrorism " , tend to suffer more in today 's charged atmosphere . <p> " What happens is exactly what we live now in France : a hate , which sometimes takes on the clothes of anti-Semitism and which is based on a legitimate feeling of double standard , pops up . I believe that the responsibility of the French state is tremendous . " 
