@@31761643 <h> IDF fires at Palestinians approaching Gaza border fence - report <p> IDF soldiers fired and launched tear gas at Palestinians who approached the border fence east of Khan Younis in southern Gaza on Monday , according to Palestinian reports . <p> No injuries have been reported . <p> Monday marks the 44th anniversary of Land Day . Palestinians in both the West Bank and Gaza planned to mark the day this year by raising Palestinian flags at their homes and burning Israeli flags , instead of with the usual marches and rallies , due to the coronavirus outbreak . <p> On March 30 , 1976 , the Israeli government announced that it would seize 21,000 dunams of Arab land in the upper Galilee in the north of the country to build Jewish settlements , according to the Palestinian WAFA news agency . Six Palestinians were killed during protests against the announcement . <p> In a press release , Hamas stressed that there is no way to " free the land except the path of resistance . " The terrorist group renewed its rejection of the " Deal of the Century " Middle East peace plan . <p> A rocket was fired from the Gaza Strip towards Israel on Friday . The IDF struck targets belonging to Hamas in response . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31764255 <h> The Jewish paradox of the coronavirus <h> Everything we do in our national and religious identity is about gathering . Jews , and especially Israelis , do everything in groups . <p> Worshipers at the Western Wall adhere to Health Ministry regulations by maintaining social distance . <p> ( photo credit : THE WESTERN WALL HERITAGE FOUNDATION ) <p> Israel 's war against the coronavirus went up a notch this week with the launching of a blitz . No , not a blitz of disease tests -- those are still difficult to come by -- nor a blitz of mask distribution to the public . Those will still cost you a small fortune at local pharmacies , which unfortunately are taking advantage of a public in need . I 'm referring to the PR blitz being launched by the Mossad and the IDF . <p> It reminded me -- as someone who has covered more than one war over the last couple of decades -- of something that always seems to happen in the IDF . During the Second Lebanon War in 2006 for example , commanders announced successful operations that later became botched ( Bint Jbeil is one well-known example ) . In Cast Lead in 2009 , the IDF took pride in sending tanks to divide the Gaza Strip in a matter of hours , but then got bogged down fighting back Hamas . <p> In both cases and more , the declarations of so-called victories were premature . They were also irresponsible . Conflicts escalated , lives were lost , and the battles continued not just for days but for weeks , leaving people wondering what went wrong . What happened to the declarations of success just a few weeks before ? <p> Take the head of the Mossad as an example . Yossi Cohen is an impressive figure within Israel 's defense establishment . He has forged strong ties with other spymasters around the world , and has led his men and women on jaw-dropping missions -- like the stealing of Iran 's nuclear archive -- that have succeeded in undermining our enemies ' capabilities . <p> Why , then , is he interviewing with TV stations like he has saved Israel from disaster ? On Tuesday night he appeared on one channel whose reporter " happened " to stumble across him at the Sheba Medical Center . He is scheduled to appear on another channel on Friday night after another reporter -- based on the video that has already come out -- also just happened to meet him getting out of his car . <p> Yes , the Mossad is working on bringing essential medical equipment to Israel , and has already succeeded in bringing in millions of masks and more , but this mission is far from over . So why the congratulatory press tour ? <p> The same can be said of the IDF 's 8200 intelligence unit , which came out of the shadows this week to brag about what it is doing to help the Health Ministry . We at The Jerusalem Post participated in the media festival with our own exclusive story published on Wednesday 's frontpage on how the famed commando unit Sayeret Matkal -- known for amazing operations behind enemy lines -- is now going into hospitals and warehouses searching for respirators and helping with testing . <p> In this battle against COVID-19 , cooperation is the key . All hands are needed on deck to help fight this pandemic and there is nothing like making Israelis feel safe then pulling out the defense icons -- the Mossad , Sayeret Matkal and 8200 . When it comes to equipment , respirators are what every country is trying to get its hands on . Cohen 's Mossad is an essential part of that effort alongside the Defense Ministry , which announced this week that it is retrofitting a weapons assembly line to produce the life-saving machines . <p> Do n't misunderstand . All of this is important , and the IDF and the Mossad have capabilities that far surpass anything that the Health Ministry can do in terms of logistics , airlifts and large-scale testing and procurement . Nevertheless , this is a time for humility , not PR campaigns . Israel is still in the thick of this crisis , and the worse might still be on the horizon . <p> Everything has its time and place , and now is the time to work to save lives , not to think about publicity and the PR campaign . There will be plenty of time later to distribute the credit . <p> * * * <p> ONE OF THE more interesting statistics that have appeared on the spread of COVID-19 in Israel was that until last week , a quarter of those infected had contracted the disease in a synagogue . Festive meals held by families over the two days of Purim are also known to have infected large numbers . <p> I 've been wondering if this is something unique about Israel and its people . Everything we do in our national and religious identity is about gathering . Jews , and especially Israelis , do everything in groups . <p> A quorum for a prayer service is 10 ; a Brit needs a minyan so the blessings can be said ; a wedding usually needs a minimum number of people as well for the Chuppah . What 's a Shabbat or holiday meal without guests surrounding your table ? Everything is in the numbers , the size and the groups . Individual prayer and study are of course valuable and cherished , but in Judaism we put an emphasis on gathering and the collective . <p> Micha Goodman , acclaimed author of several bestselling books on canonical Jewish texts , explained to me that this is an idea that moves like a thread throughout Jewish history . In the Torah , for example , religion is not an individual institution . <p> " God did n't give the Torah to each person but it was given to Am Yisrael , which is one organism , " he said . <p> The same , he went on , applies to the liturgy we say in our prayers . " Everything is in plural . You do n't say ' Forgive Me ' in prayer , but ' Forgive Us ' . When you approach God , you think of yourself as a group bigger than just yourself . " <p> This runs counter to Western culture and practice , which is all about the individual . In the contemporary West , Goodman said , people are " hyper individualists , " and when someone thinks about staying healthy , they usually think about keeping themselves healthy , not anyone else . <p> " The whole point now , " he continued , " is that a pandemic challenges your individualistic instincts since to stay healthy I need to keep you healthy . If you are not healthy , I am not healthy . This is a rewiring of the way we think about health -- we are forced to think about the other . And how do we do that ? The answer is by staying away from people . " <p> In essence , what Goodman explained is the paradox that the coronavirus has brought into our lives . One of the ways for a nation to defeat this virus and to be able to one day emerge from isolation is to work as a collective to stay away from one another . " We collectively need to isolate , " is how Goodman put it . <p> In Israel , the rapid pace of infections -- in synagogues , at Purim meals , and in yeshivas in Bnai Brak -- stemmed from our collective spirit . That is what made us fragile and exposed to this deadly virus . But it is those same values we will need to draw on to be able to win . <p> On Wednesday night , when we gather to tell the story of the Jewish peoples ' liberation from slavery , we will do so from the confines of our homes and within the boundaries of our immediate nuclear family . We wo n't have the usual coterie of guests -- not grandparents , not siblings , nor cousins sitting alongside us . <p> It is true that this goes against our nature . One of the nights with the most traffic in the country is the night of the Passover Seder . Everyone is going somewhere to be with someone to share the joy of the holiday and the story of our collective past . <p> Not this year . <p> This year we will collectively be at home alone , but at the same time working united -- as a collective -- to defeat the coronavirus . Because even in individual lockdown , we are together . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31777452 <h> UN envoys : ' Guns of war ' must be silenced so world can combat COVID-19 <h> " At a time like this , partisanship and narrow interests must yield to the greater cause and the good of the people , " the envoys said in a statement . <p> Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas addresses the 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly at U.N . headquarters in New York City , New York , U.S. <p> ( photo credit : REUTERS/LUCAS JACKSON ) <p> UN envoys in the Middle East called Saturday for a global cease-fire to allow for united action to combat the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> " None of these efforts will succeed if the guns of war and conflict are not silenced . At a time like this , partisanship and narrow interests must yield to the greater cause and the good of the people , " the envoys said in a statement . <p> They spoke out two days after UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres briefed the UN Security Council on the need for a global cease-fire . He urged an end to hostilities since the start of the pandemic . <p> On Saturday the envoys said " we echo the Secretary-General in calling on all parties in the Middle East to work with the UN so we can " focus on the true fight of our lives . " <p> They spoke out as a two-week cease-fire in Yemen appeared to go into effect . There are also reports of advancement on a possible prisoner exchange between Hamas and Israel that would lead to the return of the bodies of two Israeli soldiers Oren Shaul and Hadar Goldin and the release of two civilians Avera Mengistu and Hisham al-Sayed from captivity in Gaza . <p> The statement was signed by UN Special Coordinator to the Middle East Peace Process Nickolay Mladenov , as well as by UN envoys to Syria , Lebanon , Iraq and Yemen . <p> On Thursday Guterres outlined for the UNSC the eight associated global risks of the COVID-19 pandemic , including economic instability , mistrust in public institutions , the postponement of elections and a delay in conflict resolution efforts . <p> In some conflict zones the pandemic could create incentives to escalate violence , " which could further entrench ongoing wars and complicate efforts to fight the pandemic , " Guterres said . <p> There is a threat of increased terrorism , particularly bio-terrorism , he said . <p> " The weaknesses and lack of preparedness exposed by this pandemic provide a window onto how a bio-terrorist attack might unfold -- and may increase its risks . Non-state groups could gain access to virulent strains that could pose similar devastation to societies around the globe , " Guterres said . <p> Lastly , Guterres said , there are human rights issues , including actions by " white supremacists and other extremists seeking to exploit the situation . " There are also issues with stigma and hate speech , he added . <p> Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia also warned of an increased terror threat given that COVID-19 hampers the ability of the states to combat international terrorism . <p> Thursday 's meeting of the 15-member UNSC marked the first such gathering on COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic . The meeting , like all UNSC debates during COVID-19 , occurred over a video conference . It did not lead to any action . <p> On Saturday Germany 's Foreign Minister Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called on the UNSC to pass a resolution that would formally endorse Guterres ' cease-fire call . <p> As is clear from Syria and Libya " Covid-19 exacerbates existing conflicts and has the potential to further destabilize already fragile states and regions , " said Mass whose country is a non-permanent member of the council . <p> " The Security Council must also fulfill its responsibility in addressing the pandemic and its impacts on the existing crises and conflicts around the world , " he said . <p> " The major powers in the Security Council must also put aside the differences that have so far prevented the adoption of a resolution , " he added . <p> China , whose country held the rotating UNSC presidency last month , is among those UNSC member states who has been reluctant for the council to get involved , arguing it was not within its mandate . Washington has insisted that any council action refer to the origins of the virus , much to the annoyance of China . The new coronavirus , which causes the respiratory illness COVID-19 , first emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year . <p> " That is the wrong discussion to have right now about naming the virus . It 's COVID-19 ... and it 's a threat to international peace and security and the Security Council should have expressed itself on it earlier , " said a senior European diplomat , speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity . <p> China 's UN Ambassador Zhang Jun told the Security Council on Thursday that it should reject any acts of stigmatization and politicization . US President Donald Trump , who labelled the coronavirus the " Chinese virus , " last month said Beijing should have acted faster to warn the world . <p> " To overcome this global challenge , solidarity , cooperation , mutual support and assistance is what we need , while beggar-thy-neighbor or scapegoating will lead us nowhere , " Zhang said . <p> In recent weeks , council members have been negotiating two draft resolutions . The five veto-wielding powers -- the United States , China , France , Russia and Britain -- have been discussing a French text . The remaining 10 members -- elected for two-year terms -- have been discussing a Tunisian draft . <p> " The eyes of the world are on each of us that are on this Council , and we must act to save lives , " US Ambassador to the United Nations , Kelly Craft , told the council on Thursday . <p> " The most effective way to contain this pandemic is through accurate , science-based data collection and analysis of the origins , characteristics , and spread of the virus , " she said . <p> The council met on Thursday at the request of nine of the elected members . After the meeting the council issued a short statement , agreed by consensus , which expressed support for Guterres ' efforts concerning " the potential impact of COVID-19 pandemic to conflict-affected countries . " <p> A resolution by the council could back Guterres ' call for a ceasefire in conflicts around the world , push for access to humanitarian aid to fight the coronavirus and urge a coordinated global approach to confronting the outbreak . <p> A resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes to be adopted . The council has addressed global public health issues in the past , adopting resolutions in 2000 and 2011 on HIV/AIDS and on the Ebola crisis in West Africa in 2014 , when it declared the outbreak a threat to international peace and security.Reuters contributed to this report . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31778242 <h> Differing approaches <p> Volunteers spraying disinfectant in the streets of Tehran on April 3 . Photo : VIA REUTERS <p> COVID-19 is stretching health care systems across the world , but the international community has not been able to get its act together so far to come up with an effective global response to the health crisis or its economic fallout . <p> IN an appeal to theinternational community in the third week of March , United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres requested an " immediate global ceasefire " and the waiving of sanctions that " undermine the capacity " of nations to focus on the fight against the coronavirus pandemic . He emphasised that unlike any other global health crisis this particular pandemic had severely impacted the global economy and upended the lives of people . " Our human family is stressed and the global family is being torn , " Guterres said . " We are in an unprecedented situation and normal rules do not apply . " The Secretary-General called on world leaders to join hands and come forward with a united response in the battle against COVID-19 . He has said that this is the worst crisis humanity has faced since the end of the Second World War . <p> The U.N . chief referred to an International Labour Organisation ( ILO ) report which concluded that workers would lose around $3.4 trillion in income by the end of the year . Low-paid workers and women in particular will be among the main sufferers as the pandemic plays out , Guterres warned . He said that " the recovery should not come on the backs of the poorest -- and we can not create a legion of new poor " and requested that a $2 billion emergency fund be set up to help war-torn countries such as Yemen and Afghanistan cope with the pandemic . He wants trillions of dollars more to be used as a financial stimulus to stave off a gargantuan catastrophe that has the potential to claim millions of lives . <h> Bland pledges <p> The international community has not been able to get its act together so far . The G7 and G20 groups of nations have held meetings during which statements expressing solidarity and bland pledges to aid the fight against the disease were made . But the fact that the G7 could not even agree to a joint statement after the meeting is illustrative of the lack of cohesion among Western powers . There were no fresh proposals on how to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic . United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo seems keener on exploiting the pandemic for strategic and military ends than on combatting it . The other G7 Foreign Ministers refused to agree to the term " Wuhan virus " in the joint statement as the U.S. demanded . The insistence of the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump on describing the pandemic as either the " Chinese virus " or the " Wuhan virus " goes against the guidelines of the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) , which stipulate that viruses can not be named after cities or countries . <p> In a statement that Yves Le Drian , French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs , issued after the G7 Foreign Ministers ' meeting , he " underscored the need to combat any attempt to exploit the crisis for political purposes and expressed the view that the unity of all in order to effectively combat the pandemic must now take precedence over any other considerations " . Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif sarcastically tweeted that Pompeo should henceforth be called the " Secretary of Hate " . <p> The G20 tele-summit concluded with the statement that member countries remained strongly committed " to do whatever it takes to overcome the pandemic " in cooperation with organisations such as the WHO , the World Bank and the ILO . " We commit to take all necessary health measures and seek to ensure adequate financing to contain the pandemic and protect people , especially the most vulnerable , " the statement said . The group pledged to inject over $5 trillion into the global economy to offset the negative impact of COVID-19 . Prime Minister Narendra Modi , however , was critical of the role played by the WHO as the crisis was unfolding . He told his G20 colleagues that the organisation responsible for global health and well-being lacked the mandate to deal with crises of the magnitude of the coronavirus pandemic and said that there was a need to strengthen and reform the WHO . <h> Draconian U.S. sanctions <p> The Trump administration has chosen to further tighten sanctions on Iran , one of the countries worst hit by the virus . Venezuela , too , has been hit by additional sanctions at a time when it is battling the pandemic with the limited resources at its disposal . Draconian U.S. sanctions have devastated the economies of the two countries . Washington has vetoed their request for an emergency aid package from the World Bank to fight the coronavirus . Pompeo instead blamed the Iranian President for " mishandling " the coronavirus crisis and " inventing " reasons to blame the U.S. Reports in the American media suggest that the hawks in the Trump administration are itching for a military confrontation with Iran even as the coronavirus is raging , mistakenly thinking that the epic scale of the epidemic has weakened the morale of the Iranian leadership and people . <p> In late March , the U.S. Justice Department announced that it was charging Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro with indulging in " narco-terrorism " and other assorted crimes . The laughable charges were made to bolster Trump 's chances of winning the State of Florida , which has a large right-wing Venezuelan and Cuban emigre population , in the forthcoming presidential elections and precipitating regime change in Venezuela . Winning Florida is crucial for Trump . The U.S. has now said that it will lift sanctions if the government of Venezuela agrees to set up an interim government that would share power with the right-wing opposition . <p> As the U.S. was busy warmongering in the midst of the pandemic , the governments of Russia , China , Iran , Venezuela , Nicaragua and Syria said in a joint letter that the sanctions the U.S. had imposed on them were " illegal and blatantly violate international law and the charter of the United Nations " . The letter went on to emphasise that the sanctions were seriously hampering their efforts to fight the pandemic . The " destructive impact " of these measures , the letter said , hindered the ability of the governments under sanctions to procure even basic medical necessities and supplies . <p> U.N . High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet appealed for the immediate easing of the sanctions . " It is vital to avoid the collapse of any country 's vital medical system -- given the explosive impact that will have on death , suffering and wider contagion , " she said in a statement . " Obstacles to the import of vital medical supplies , including over-compliance with sanctions by banks , will create long lasting harm to vulnerable communities . " Britain , France and Germany , signatories to the Iran nuclear deal , have defied the U.S. and dispatched hospital equipment and medicine to Iran following the outbreak of the pandemic . <p> Meanwhile , Saudi Arabia , the current chairman of the G20 , continues with the brutal war it has imposed on Yemen , the poorest country in the region . More than 100,000 Yemenis have perished in the war , which started four years ago . Yemen 's hospitals and health infrastructure are almost completely destroyed . A cholera epidemic killed thousands after the Saudi-led military coalition began its assault on the country . The U.S. State Department has cut its contribution to health care in Yemen at a time when the country needs it the most . <p> As the coronavirus rages , Israeli jets and artillery continue to target the densely packed and blockaded Gaza Strip . Coronavirus cases have been reported in Gaza and the occupied West Bank . Israel has almost completely destroyed the health infrastructure of the Gaza Strip . There are only 56 ventilators and 40 intensive care beds available for a population of around two million people who live in Gaza , packed like sardines . <h> Under-reporting in Egypt <p> Egypt is not helping the embattled Gazans either . For that matter , the authoritarian military government seems to be under-reporting the spread of the virus in the most populated Arab country . A foreign correspondent was expelled for filing a story saying that the cases of coronavirus were much higher than what the government was admitting . A research paper in the medical journal Lancet suggested that in Egypt in early March there were between 6,000 and 19,300 cases of COVID-19 , whereas the government 's official tally at the time was only three . By the end of March , more than 40 people were officially confirmed dead from the virus , including two senior military officers . <p> Modi chaired a teleconference of member countries of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation ( SAARC ) on March 15 to chart out a common strategy to confront the pandemic . The SAARC grouping , which was consigned to irrelevance after Modi came to power , is yet to come out with a united response on how to tackle it . The Indian government offered $10 million to start an emergency fund to fight the virus in the region . Most of the other countries have pledged contributions , but the amounts promised are even more miserly than that pledged by India . <p> Most of the governments in the world were slow to heed the serious warnings from organisations such as the WHO about the danger the coronavirus posed to humankind and are now paying the price . Japan had no other option but to finally agree to postponing the Tokyo Olympic Games by a year . The Japanese government had hoped that the Games , which were to be held in the middle of the year , would give the economy a much-needed boost . Japanese officials admit that the government is facing " severe circumstances " because of the pandemic . Japan has the third largest economy after the U.S. and China . <p> Like most countries affected by the pandemic , Japan has passed an economic stimulus package . Worth $530 billion , it is the biggest in its history so far . Critics accuse the government of not having taken the virus threat seriously and allowing business activities and work to go on as usual . Now with the virus spreading through clusters , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is getting ready to declare " a national emergency " . Many Japanese are wary about giving the government untrammelled powers because of the country 's history . South Korea and Singapore have been praised for being able to curtail infections . But they could only do so by resorting to invasive surveillance and authoritarian measures . And the virus has made a comeback , with new cases being reported in both countries . <h> Pretext to grab more power <p> Many other rulers around the world have been using the crisis triggered by the pandemic as a pretext to arbitrarily grab more power . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has shut down courts and ordered intrusive surveillance into the activities of citizens . By tracing call records , the government can identify those who defy quarantine orders and send them to jail for a period of six months . Because courts have been ordered to close , Netanyahu has managed to avoid trial on corruption charges . Prosecutors had filed a foolproof case against him . Now instead of spending time in jail , he continues as Prime Minister . <p> Hungary 's Prime Minister , Viktor Orban , can now rule by decree after the parliament conferred on him the requisite power to do so indefinitely . President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines has been given emergency powers by the legislature dominated by his supporters . He has announced a ceasefire with the communists to concentrate on fighting the virus but has also promulgated shoot at sight orders on those breaking the quarantine curfew . <p> In Chile , the government has sent the army to patrol the streets . Anti-government protesters who were on the streets for months on end are no longer allowed to congregate in public squares . The military-backed government in Bolivia , which had illegally seized power , has used the pandemic as a pretext to postpone elections . The governments in France and the United Kingdom now have the right to detain people and close borders . <p> The West was critical of China when it locked down the city of Wuhan to control the virus . Now they are taking a leaf out of China 's book . The U.S. Justice Department asked Congress to give it the authority to detain people without trial and eliminate legal protection for asylum seekers . Congress refused the request . <p> Italy declared a national emergency on January 31 immediately after it confirmed its first two cases , but this did not stop the spread of the virus in the province of Lombardy , the most prosperous region in the country . The death toll in Italy has exceeded that of China . The U.S. and the U.K. were even more lax in their reactions . After initially downplaying the gravity of the situation and prioritising the safeguarding of the economy , Trump now says that human lives are more important . The U.K. government was initially willing to sacrifice significant numbers of people in exchange for long-term " herd immunity " against the virus . With the Prime Minister himself along with his Health Secretary and the Prince of Wales catching the virus , better sense has finally prevailed . And for the first time since the Second World War , the iconic Wimbledon tournament , which was due to be held in June , has been cancelled , and the popular football league season has been postponed indefinitely . <p> The U.S. President recently admitted that around 200,000 Americans could perish before the pandemic ebbs and only self-isolation and social distancing would prevent the numbers from going up even further . He said that it would be " a good job " if the casualty figures remained below that figure . By April 1 , the U.S. casualty figures had already surpassed China 's . If the apocalyptic forecasts become a reality , the U.S. will lose more lives than were lost in all the wars the country has fought over the last 70 years . <p> By the first week of April , three out of four Americans were effectively forced to stay indoors . Unemployment levels in the U.S. are now at a record high . The U.S. government will be implementing a $2 trillion bailout package to address the effects of the pandemic on the its economy . Unemployment benefits will be given to all workers claiming them for 13 weeks . The military industrial sector will also be a major beneficiary of the bailout . In most parts of the world , the working class has been given a raw deal as governments spend most of their resources on bailing out failing conglomerates . <p> Trump may have changed his mind about the virus , but his ideological soulmate , President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil , is still insisting that business should go on as usual in his country and that the coronavirus is nothing but a " measly cold " . Fortunately , the Brazilian public and many people in his own ruling coalition do not agree with his suicidal take on the pandemic . Bolsonaro criticised the local governments of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro for introducing quarantine measures , saying that they should be held responsible for the economic slowdown that has already hit Brazil . The country has the highest number of reported cases of the virus and casualties in Latin America . People in Sao Paulo and other cities have been staging " pot banging " protests at night calling for the resignation of their President . <p> The steep fall in oil prices improves India 's manoeuvrability to address an economic recession . However , the government 's decision to increase the excise duty on fuel betrays an attempt to appropriate for itself the benefits that may have otherwise accrued to the citizens . 
@@84588654 <h> Egypt opens Gaza border for returnees stranded by outbreak <p> GAZA CITY , Gaza Strip -- Egypt reopened its border crossing on Monday with the Gaza Strip after nearly three weeks , allowing hundreds of Palestinians stranded by the coronavirus pandemic to return home . <p> Hamas , the militant group ruling Gaza , has coordinated the timing of Rafah crossing 's one-way reopening with Egypt to coincide with the completion of 1,000 rooms to place the returnees into mandatory quarantine . <p> The arrivals were taken into buses , without their luggage , under police escort into the quarantine centers . Sick returnees would be placed in hospitals and the old at hotels . Security forces and medics waited for the arrival in full protection clothes . <p> Hamas and its governmental bodies are struggling to keep the COVID-19 threat at bay after its spread in neighboring Israel and Egypt . Only 13 cases have been diagnosed in the Palestinian enclave that the two countries blockaded following Hamas ' violent 2007 takeover . Nine have recovered . The cases were discovered among travelers who returned from abroad via Israel and Egypt in March . <p> But experts say the numbers could be low owing to the limited testing capacity . <p> Gaza 's health system is gutted due to the blockade , Palestinian political divisions and conflicts with Israel . International organizations warn that an outbreak would be catastrophic among the 2 million people packed in the narrow enclave , where poverty and unemployment levels have jumped over 50% . <p> The Rafah crossing will remain open for four days to allow for the return of some 2,000 Palestinians from Egypt . <p> In the West Bank , there are 260 infections and two deaths , while in neighboring Israel the injuries have exceeded 11,000 and 115 deaths . 
@@31781241 <h> On the brink of change : The risks of being a Gazan peace activist <h> Meet Israelis and Gazans who , seeking coexistence , refuse to lose hope or remain silent but listen to the other voice . <p> By TAMARA BARAAZ <p> AUGUST 2 , 2015 05:55 <p> Rami Aman is a Gazan journalist and political activist . ( Below ) Speaking at a peace conference in Tel Aviv . <p> ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> A sing-along for Palestinians and settlers , a coexistence trek , an Israeli-Palestinian team in Antarctica , a binational theater , a yoga workshop , an ashram , a couscous night , a women 's circle , a summer camp . These and many other coexistence initiatives were published in the media time and again over the last 30 years , if not more , each one more original than the last . People hoped that the first binational team or workshop would pave the way for many others , and eventually to peace . People read about it on websites and in feature articles with a coffee mug in hand , called it a " heartwarming story " -- and then , with the wars that came , forgot all about it . <p> They say that revolutions start from the bottom . But what can you do when civil peace initiatives and wars come one after the other , and reality stays the same ? Do you give up ? Do you keep trying ? Can civil coexistence initiatives indicate a change in the atmosphere ? Are we on the brink of something new ? Or is it another wave that will die out ? <p> I was told to do an article about coexistence initiatives between Israelis and Palestinians in Gaza . To find the people who are trying , against all odds , to live with their enemies . I set out to the challenge with a baggage of Israeli cynicism , but also with curiosity . Maybe I 'll find something new ? Maybe there 's hope ? <p> Gaza 's movement restrictions <p> Most coexistence initiatives take place in the West Bank or with Palestinians who live there . Gaza is a different case . Legal and security restrictions make it almost impossible for Israelis and Gazans to meet . <p> During the ' 80s , Israelis used to shop in Gaza , and Gazans used to work in Israel . Movement restrictions started in the beginning of the ' 90s , but despite that , more than half a million entrances were registered at the Gaza borders in 2000 . <p> In 2007 , the border crossings were sealed , and nowadays exits reach only 3 percent of past levels . <p> Only persons who fit the following categories can enter Israel : patients receiving medical care in Israeli hospitals , merchants , national sports teams , students who study abroad , and " exceptional humanitarian cases . " This means that families who are divided between the West Bank and Gaza can meet only at exceptional events such as weddings , funerals or dying relatives . <p> Even for persons matching these categories , getting a permit is not an easy procedure . <p> " We get calls from people who handed in all the necessary papers months ago , and are still waiting for a permit , " says Shai Grunberg , spokeswoman of Gisha , an Israeli NGO that aids Gazans with their freedom of movement . <p> " A citizen of Gaza needs to wait three to four weeks for a permit from the moment he hands in his papers to the authorities . The permits require some proof , even in the case of a dying relative . Many people do n't get their permits on time and end up missing the funeral or the wedding they wished to attend . " <p> " When it comes to students , since 2000 they have not been allowed to attend universities in the West Bank . In order to study abroad , they need to exit through the border checkpoint of Erez , travel to the Allenby checkpoint of Jordan , and then fly from Jordan . This procedure was hard enough before Operation Protective Edge , because even after they received the permits , the army often required a consular escort . The consulates do not tend to cooperate in this case . After the war , the Rafah border crossing with Egypt , the main exit for students , was almost completely shut down . Israel declared that it will allow 30 students to exit Gaza every week , but so far , since December only 145 students made it out , far fewer than the great demand . " How do Israelis and Gazans meet ? <p> Since peace activism is not included in the categories , requesting a permit for coexistence meetings is out of the question . <p> " If our Gazan activists request a permit in order to participate in coexistence meetings , there is no chance they 'll get it , " says Roni Keidar , head of the Kol Aher organization . <p> Kol Aher ( Other Voice ) was established by residents of the Gaza periphery ( the region of Israel surrounding the Gaza Strip ) , who 've so far been the main target of missiles from Gaza . The NGO 's aim is to create coexistence between Gazans and Israelis , and meetings are held between the two in Keidar 's house . <p> " Our Gazan activists usually request permits for visiting a sick relative , or receiving medical care , " says Keidar , " and during their visits they participate in our meetings . " <p> Due to the restrictions , face-to-face meetings do not occur very often . <p> The program started with two bloggers , one from the Gaza Strip and one from Sderot , Keidar explains . " One called himself ' Peace man , ' and the other was ' Help man . ' Eventually people gathered around them and created connections from both sides of the border . The Gazan blogger helped us reach out to residents of Gaza through the Internet and cellphones . " <p> Sara , who requested a pseudonym because she 's not authorized to speak on behalf of her NGO , meets Palestinians from Gaza at the Erez border checkpoint . <p> " My first encounter with people from Gaza was at the hospital , " she says . " I used to volunteer with children who have cancer . Some of them turned out to be Gazan . Their mothers used to speak to me about their hardships and their lives in Gaza . They used to ask me for a ride from the border to the hospital . This is how I started my volunteering activities with Palestinians from Gaza . " <p> Nowadays , Sara drives patients from the checkpoint to the hospital , and leads a team of volunteers who do the same . <p> " Sometimes a volunteer becomes extremely attached to a patient and becomes his permanent driver , " says Sara . <p> " We had a volunteer who waited four hours at the checkpoint while the missiles were firing , so the border officials told him to clear out and find a shelter . He insisted on waiting there , because the baby he waited for needed these treatments to stay alive . Eventually he managed to take the baby to the hospital . " <p> Last summer 's war created some other challenging situations for the volunteers . <p> " We had a girl who lived in Gaza and received medical treatment in Israel during the war , " says Sara . " Her father had a hard time convincing her to get out of the house and go to the hospital . He told me that during the day she was afraid of the bombardments from Israel , and by nightfall , when she was on the Israeli side , she was afraid of the missiles coming from Gaza . Another volunteer was on the road with his patients during a missile shooting . All passengers got out and hid behind the car . The missiles do n't distinguish between nations . " <p> The risks of being a Gazan peace activist <p> Aside from the hardships of exiting Gaza , the Gazan peace activists are facing a great personal risk . <p> " Spreading propaganda for peace and talking about peace in the local media can put me and my family at risk . Right now the borders are closed , there is no way to get out , and we are all subject to the Hamas regime , which limits our freedom of speech . The formal standpoint is to see Israel as an enemy , and coexistence activities are not an option . <p> " A big part of my activity is giving interviews to the foreign press . I used to give interviews with fake names only . Later I decided to use my real name , because I did n't do anything wrong . Why should I hide ? " But Mehana still prefers to take some precautions . <p> " I do n't give interviews to the local press , so the public is mostly unaware of my activities . Most of the people in Gaza are not regularly exposed to the foreign press . Most of my activities here are on the Internet and I do n't even meet other Gazan activists face-to-face . I can not trust anybody . I 'm afraid I will encounter a spy or something like that . We have coexistence Facebook groups , and the Palestinians usually participate with fake IDs . I usually participate in Kol Aher meeting by Skype . " <p> " Three years ago I arranged a conference in Sapir a small community in southern Israel , " says Keidar . " Thirteen Palestinians from Gaza participated in the conference . Nobody agreed to identify himself or pose for the camera , except for two people . One of them gave an interview on two media channels . When they returned to Gaza , they were arrested by Hamas . One of them was released after two hours , the other was tortured . He managed to escape through the tunnels to Egypt , and today he lives in exile . " <p> " In Gaza you do n't act openly , because this can land you in jail , " says John Elias Debis , a Palestinian journalist and activist living in the West Bank . " The new law is Gazan residents are forbidden to cooperate with the Palestinian Authority . It 's far worse if you cooperate with Israelis . The peace activists I 'm familiar with in Gaza are doing everything under the table . I had a colleague who was arrested for three months because he coordinated with the Israelis in a campaign for cleaning the beaches . He arranged the cleaning on the Gazan side . That 's why most of the coexistence activities happen online . People participate in meetings and conferences by Skype . " <p> A Skype conference is not a simple matter either . On good days , the electricity in Gaza works for eight hours a day , but this is not guaranteed , and people can be left for days without electricity . <p> " The Hamas and their associates are only 10% of the Gazans , and the Gazans are their hostages , " says Debis , " I think this can be changed , but you need something like the Arab Spring to change it . I myself received threats from the BDS for some Facebook activity . They told me , ' If you do n't stop , you know what will happen . ' " Rami Aman is a Gazan journalist , a political activist and a member of the Central Committee of Consortium of Independent Palestinians , an opposition party in Gaza . <p> " I try to broaden the categories of people who are eligible for exit permits to include peace activists , " says Aman . " People know that I 'm active in peace and coexistence ; I even took part in the April 29 movement that demonstrated in Gaza , calling for change . " <p> On April 29 , around 400 Gazans protested in the destroyed neighborhood of Shejaia , in Gaza City , calling for reconstruction and the end to intra- Palestinian conflict . Hamas police responded violently to the demonstrators and broke up the protest . <p> " I do n't openly speak about peace , " Aman continues . " I speak about ending the occupation , making some change . If I talk publicly about peace , most of the public will agree with me , but the leaders and the press will focus on me and slander me . Our crowd is not ready for that yet . Right now I 'm looking for a partner for negotiation , and I meet with different elements in the Palestinian government for this purpose . " <p> Coming out of Gaza <p> In Gaza , young people who were born in the ' 80s and thereafter have most likely not seen Israeli civilians their entire lives . Such is Ismail 's story . <p> When Ismail , who also requested his real name not be used , was 15 years old , he had no clue about the Palestinian-Israeli conflict . He was living with his family in Saudi Arabia , until one day his father decided to return to Gaza to live with his family . <p> Overnight he found himself in a war-torn prison . <p> " It was a big shock for me to come here , " says Ismail , " I was never in a conflict zone before . I suddenly had movement restrictions . We used to go out to the desert on family vacations , but suddenly it was not possible anymore ; the door shut down on us . <p> " It takes 1.5 hours to cross Gaza from north to south . The space is extremely limited . I could n't get electricity whenever I wanted . Even refueling the car was a problem . You want to go out , do something , but you ca n't . It was so frustrating . " I used to fight with my parents as a teenager . I used to tell them : ' We had a good life back home ! Why did you bring us here ? ! ' But eventually I came to terms with reality . Later on , during my work at an NGO , I had the chance to enter Israel . I met my relatives for the first time , and I also met Israelis for the first time . Up until then I had no idea how they think , what is going on in their minds . When I met them , I realized there are people on the other side who think like me and would like to see a change . " <p> Are we on the brink of change ? <p> " Since the last war , I see more people calling for a political solution , " says Keidar . " People feel that so far , our actions have not yielded results and we need to try something else . New coexistence NGO 's were established here in the Gaza periphery , and we are trying to work together . <p> " I have no doubt that everybody wants peace . The difference is in the way we expect to achieve peace , and what we are willing to give for it . I am not naive . I 'm aware that opening the siege is risky . But I am already living in danger . I do n't know when the next missile will come . " <p> " Hamas wants peace now , " says Aman . " They changed since 2007 .... Hamas does not like to admit publicly the need to negotiate with Israel , but they are actually interested in a peaceful life and a good economy . They are even talking about five- , 10-year truces , which is already a big change . <p> " I see the change even on the Facebook level . In 2011 , I was constantly trying to add Israelis as Facebook friends . Not even one person approved my requests . Then in 2014 , I entered Israel for the first time in 10 years . I got a permit for one day , in which I met an Israeli activist . I told her I wished to meet Israelis and engage in activities to end the conflict . She helped , and since then , many Israelis are adding me on Facebook . " <p> " Before I started volunteering , I did not know people from Gaza , " says Sara . " For me , Gaza was a big black hole full of terrorists and bad people . Nowadays , after meeting so many people and children from Gaza , I see them as human beings who want to live decently , like me and you . " <p> The last war with Gaza ended only a year ago . This was not the first war , and there is still talk about the next one . Up until this day the press is full of stories coming out of Operation Protective Edge -- articles about wounded soldiers , bereaved parents , investigation committees , and new weapons being purchased . It seems that our minds are still deep in war . <p> And yet , other voices from both sides can be heard . <p> Not all interviewees were included in this article , because not all of them seemed to fit . Some of them were merely repeating slogans they thought the audience would like to hear . Others seemed more authentic and worth quoting . <p> Sentences such as : " We are trying , we want to , we ca n't , " repeated themselves throughout some of the interviews . Sometimes it seemed that not enough is being done , that the few voices being heard are not widespread enough and not loud enough . <p> But on the other hand , who am I to judge ? Would I do more if I were them ? Probably not . And who knows , maybe that 's how good things start -- very slowly . <p> There is a fear that the cynical reader will say , " Another group of bleeding hearts trying to clear their conscience with useless peace activities " ; that the person reading this paper with his coffee mug , the one who says " What a heartwarming story ! " will become a cynic after the next violent incident . <p> And sometimes there 's hope that maybe we are on the brink of something new . After all , a big part of the coexistence initiatives were not there 10 years ago . A coexistence NGO from the Gaza periphery , a well-publicized binational peace concert and a memorial ceremony for Israelis and Palestinians seem like a fresh change . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84614047 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <h> Some stimulus checks are being sent to wrong accounts : ' The bank account number is not even close ' <p> Americans are confused about what happened to the stimulus check deposits that were supposed to show up in their bank accounts on Wednesday . <p> The Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service launched the " Get My Payment " web application allowing people to track their payout , which was hit with early glitches at the time of launch . <p> About 80 million people were to receive the deposit this week , the Treasury Department said on Monday . But Wednesday , many people expressed concern when the government website said the cash , up to $1,200 a person , was sent to a bank account that did n't seem to belong to them . <p> The events unfolded in a similar manner for several of the people who reached out to the IRS via Twitter . They would submit their contact information into the government 's payout tracking portal , and the results would show that the money was scheduled to be deposited April 15 . <p> But the digits did n't match a bank account people were familiar with . <p> " I was so confused , " said Aimme Saldana , 23 . " I do n't know where they got that number from . " The warehouse worker in Ontario , California , planned to use the check to cover bills . " I lost two weeks of pay because I was sick . I was depending on that for my car payment . " <p> The IRS portal said that if you do n't see the payment credited to your account , check with your bank to verify it was received . It also gave the last four digits of the bank account number associated with the deposit . <p> About 80 million people were to receive direct deposits of coronavirus relief money this week . ( Photo : Jeff Fusco , Getty Images ) <p> It 's unclear how many people this happened to , though many reached out to the IRS on Twitter to get answers . <p> IRS spokeswoman Jodie Reynolds told USA TODAY she had n't heard anything about stimulus checks being deposited into the wrong bank accounts and would look into the matter . <p> Thomas Krapin , 25 , of New York City planned on using some of the money to cover rent . As soon as the deposit information popped up on the website , he " freaked out . " <p> " Once I pressed submit , the account number that they listed did n't match any of mine . I called my bank and there was nothing they could do . There was no connection to my account , " Krapin said . <p> CLOSE <p> Families across the U.S. will get a portion of money from the federal government 's sweeping $2 trillion stimulus package . But how much ? USA TODAY <p> Chris Rodriguez , a contractor in Lansing , Michigan , has used the same bank account for almost a decade , so he knew straight away that the numbers did n't add up . <p> " You 're jubilant because you 've been waiting to get that money . And you look down and the bank account number is not even close , " Rodriguez said . " Because the IRS is n't taking calls , I 'm more or less dead in the water . " <p> Reynolds said people should contact their bank if they think the checks were deposited into the wrong bank account . She said people can also check the status of their stimulus checks at https : **34;138;TOOLONG -- the " Get My Payment " portal part of the IRS website . <p> If checks are sent to bank accounts that do n't match the name of the person who is supposed to receive the money , the check should be rejected by the bank and returned to the IRS , according to Reynolds . <p> " The payment is n't going to bounce back and just sit here , ' ' Reynolds said . " We will turn around and cut them a paper check and make sure they get their money . ' ' <p> Reynolds said people can update their bank account with the IRS online before checks are scheduled to be sent , and the IRS will be sending out notices " telling folks the status of their payment . ' ' <h> Contact the IRS , report the problem <p> Douglas Johnson Jr. , a finance and banking consultant based in Santa Monica , California , said taxpayers who think their checks were sent to the wrong bank account should contact the IRS through the agency 's website and report the problem . <p> " It 's going to be up to ( the IRS ) to track down whether it went to the wrong account or not , " Johnson said . " But the obligation to the taxpayer is not to find out what wrong recipient it went to . <p> " You simply would go the IRS and say : ' Hey , I did n't get my money . You guys made a mistake , here 's the correct information , please send me the right money . ' That would be the logical way to solve it . ' " <p> Anat Admati , a professor of finance and economics at the Stanford Graduate School of Business , said the matter will come down to government accountability . <p> " It 's a massive operation , and let 's hope they know what they 're doing since people need that money , " Admati said . <p> Bangladesh 's security personnel attend to a Rohingya refugee following their arrival by a boat in Teknaf on April 16 , 2020 . Thirty-two Rohingya died on an overcrowded fishing trawler stranded in the Bay of Bengal for nearly two months , officials said April 16 after hundreds of " starving " people were rescued from the vessel . SUZAUDDIN RUBEL , AFP via Getty Images <p> Palestinian children pose with makeshifts masks made of cabbage while cooking at home with their family in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip on April 16 , 2020 amid the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic . MOHAMMED ABED , AFP via Getty Images <p> A laborer sorts raw mangoes at the Gaddiannaram fruit market during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , on the outskirts of Hyderabad on April 16 , 2020 . NOAH SEELAM , AFP via Getty Images <p> A municipal corporate worker walks past graffiti drawn at a traffic junction urging people to stay at home during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Secunderabad , the twin city of Hyderabad on April 16 , 2020 . NOAH SEELAM , AFP via Getty Images <p> The sun begins to rise through trees as Bluebells , also known as wild Hyacinth , bloom in the Hallerbos forest in Halle , Belgium , on April 16 , 2020 . Bluebells are particularly associated with ancient woodland where it can dominate the forest floor to produce carpets of violet ? blue flowers . Virginia Mayo , AP 
@@84620157 <p> New York City Fire Department and Emergency Medical Technicians lift a man after moving him from a nursing home into an ambulance during an ongoing outbreak of the coronavirus disease in Brooklyn , N.Y. , on April 16 , 2020 . Lucas Jackson / Reuters <h> Breaking News Emails <p> Get breaking news alerts and special reports . The news and stories that matter , delivered weekday mornings . <p> President Donald Trump unveiled a three-phased plan for reopening the U.S. that puts the onus on state governors for implementing the guidelines , despite earlier assertions that he had " total authority " to direct governors how and when to reopen . <h> Live Blog <p> Brandy Zadrozny and Ben Collins <p> 17h ago / 1:26 PM UTC <h> Facebook will start steering users who interact with coronavirus misinformation to WHO <p> Facebook will begin to alert users after they 've been exposed to misinformation about the coronavirus , the company announced Thursday , the latest in a series of actions meant to curtail the spread of wrong or misleading claims related to the pandemic . <p> Users who have liked , commented on or reacted to coronavirus misinformation that has been flagged as " harmful " by Facebook and removed will now be directed to a website debunking coronavirus myths from the World Health Organization . <p> The Amazon logo at the company logistics center in Lauwin-Planque , northern France.Pascal Rossignol / Reuters file <p> Amazon closed six of its warehouses in France on Thursday in one of the biggest fallouts yet from a growing stand-off with its workers over safety measures during the coronavirus pandemic . <p> This comes as a French court ruled Tuesday that Amazon had to carry out a more thorough assessment of the risk of coronavirus contagion at its warehouses and should restrict its deliveries in the meantime , or face a fine . It ordered the company to limit deliveries to essential goods , such as food and medical supplies . <p> The director-general of Amazon France , Frederic Duval , rejected the court 's order on Thursday , saying the company had spent " colossal investments " to ensure the safety of their employees in warehouses . The firm will appeal the decision , he said in a radio interview . <p> In a statement on Thursday , the union said it would continue to work for the recognition of the health and security of workers facing COVID-19 . <p> Share this - <p> Reuters <p> 17h ago / 1:05 PM UTC <h> Dutch new unemployment claims soar 42 percent amid pandemic <p> The number of people filing for unemployment benefits in the Netherlands soared 42 percent in March as many businesses were shut down in an attempt to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the country . <p> The Dutch federal employment agency on Thursday said it had paid benefits to 37,800 new unemployed in March , an increase of 11,200 from the month before . <p> The strongest increases were among people who used to work in restaurants and bars and among people under 25 years of age , the agency said . <p> The Dutch government on March 15 ordered all restaurants , bars , museums , sport facilities and other public places in the Netherlands to shut down in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic . <p> Share this - <p> Arata Yamamoto and Adela Suliman <p> 17h ago / 1:02 PM UTC <h> Japan extends state of emergency to whole country <p> Japan will extend its current coronavirus state of emergency , in place in seven regions including Tokyo and Osaka , to cover the rest of the country , Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Thursday . <p> " We will expand the state of emergency issued on April 7th from the current 7 prefectures to all prefectures . This will be in effect until May 6th , as we have previously announced , " Abe said during an address . <p> Unlike other countries , the state of emergency in Japan remains non-compulsory and is a strong request from the government for people to stay at home in a bid to limit the spread of the virus -- especially as the country prepares for its national golden week holiday beginning at the end of this month . <p> Share this - <p> Isobel van Hagen <p> 17h ago / 12:59 PM UTC <h> E.U. Commission president offers an apology to Italy <p> The president of the European Commission -- the executive branch of the European Union -- offered an apology to Italy on Thursday , saying the country did not receive adequate help at the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic . <p> " Yes it is true that no one was really ready for this , " Ursula von der Leyen said in an address to the European Parliament . " It is also true that too many were not there on time when Italy needed a helping hand at the very beginning . And yes for that , it is right that Europe as a whole offers a heartfelt apology . " <p> Saying that while " there are no words that can do justice to Europe 's pain , " von der Leyen also looked ahead in her address . She discussed ways the E.U. planned to support and reshape industries , and invest in digital technologies , infrastructure and the European Green Deal . <h> Trump questions accuracy of China 's coronavirus death toll <p> President Donald Trump has heaped further criticism on China over its handling of the coronavirus outbreak , questioning the accuracy of its official death toll and saying he was looking into an unverified theory that the infection originated in a Chinese laboratory . <p> " Do you really believe those numbers in this vast country called China . ... Does anybody really believe that ? " Trump said when asked at the White House daily news briefing Wednesday why the U.S. has the highest numbers of official coronavirus deaths and cases in the world . <p> " Some countries are in big , big trouble and they 're not reporting the facts -- and that 's up to them , " he said . <h> 74 million people in Middle East lack sink , soap or basic water facilities , U.N . says <p> While hand-washing with soap and water has been advocated worldwide to keep the coronavirus at bay , some 74 million people in the Middle East lack access to a sink , soap or basic water facilities at home , a United Nations report published Thursday found . <p> Refugees and those in conflict areas were especially at risk , the report said , living with inadequate water , sanitation and hygiene services . <p> In the Gaza Strip , one of the most densely populated areas in the world , only one in 10 households has access to clean water , the U.N . said . Women and girls in rural areas and informal settlements , who usually undertake the water collection task , were being put at greater risk . <p> Share this - <p> Peter Jeary <p> 17h ago / 12:42 PM UTC <h> Gold stores in Bangkok 's Chinatown see brisk trade because of COVID-19 <h> 99-year-old vet raises $16M to help U.K. health service fight virus <p> A 99-year-old war veteran has raised more than 13 million British pounds ( about $16 million ) for the National Health Service by walking laps around his garden . <p> Tom Moore , a former captain who turns 100 at the end of the month , has long surpassed his original target to raise 1,000 pounds by walking the length of his garden in Bedfordshire , England , a hundred times before his 100th birthday . <p> Health care workers across the U.K. have raised concerns about the lack of safety equipment to protect them from getting infected while helping coronavirus patients . <p> So far , nearly 13,000 people have died of COVID-19 , the disease the virus cases , in the U.K. , with the nationwide tally of confirmed cases now standing at 98,476 . <p> Share this - <p> Lucy Bayly <p> 18h ago / 12:33 PM UTC <h> Another 5 million people filed jobless claims last week , bringing total to almost 22 million in a month <p> Around 5 million more people filed for first-time unemployment claims last week , as the job market in every sector of the economy continues to be devastated by the coronavirus pandemic. 
@@84620258 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <p> She has a recurring role on " Better Things " as talent manager Tressa and on " Coop and Cami " plays Jenna Wrather , the kids ' widowed mom . <p> If her current crop of projects seems a bit diverse , well it is . <p> " I love having that variety , if only because it assuages my own anxiety that I will forget how to do the other thing if I spend too much time doing one thing , " she said . <p> " It 's nice to know that I have a show where I go work with kids and do goofy things and then I have kind of the grown-up show where we go and deal with a wider emotional range and a wider range of subjects and language and material . " <p> " I definitely enjoy it and it takes a little getting used to , " she said . " When I went back to ' Better Things ' after our initial hiatus from ' Coop and Cami ' this year , I was doing a couple of things that ( director , writer , star ) Pamela Adlon was like , ' What are you doing ? ' I was like , ' Oh God , I 'm doing multi-camera acting . I 'm so sorry . ' There are some adjustments , some technical adjustments and creative adjustments you have to make to go back and forth . But it 's fun and exciting to go back and forth like that and to get to work on such different projects at the same time . " <p> Metz says both shows afford her the chance to work in ways that are unique in the world of television . <p> " Coop and Cami " is " all proscenium . It 's the most like theater you can get working in television . And the rhythms are very traditional comedy , traditional sitcom ... It 's nice to rehearse things , which you never get to do in television and to have material that is for the most part , light and funny . " <p> Looking for the trusted place to find the best home service providers ? Find local pros . <p> It 's also given her a fresh appreciation for children 's programming . <p> " I think people -- and I was guilty of this -- have sort of a condescending view of what it means to act on a kids show , and that it 's just incredibly broad and ridiculous and lacks any substance , " she said . <p> She points out that kids are a savvy audience who wo n't laugh or applaud if you do n't earn it . <p> " You have to understand them and respect them and understand what they like , what they think is funny , what they think is engaging . And you have to deliver it to them sincerely . And that tone can be hard to get right a lot of the time . And I think that takes actors by surprise sometimes . So it 's been it 's been fun to to learn that and to learn how to do it in a way that is n't cheesy and just overly broad but is grounded . " <p> The fourth season of " Better Things , " co-created by and starring Pamela Adlon , is slated for a March 5 premiere . Adlon also serves as executive producer , writer and director for the FX show . ( Photo : Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP ) <p> " It is a dream job for me , " she said . " As soon as I read the material when I was auditioning , it just felt special . It felt like this is a show about women I actually know in a way that I have n't seen before . Relationships , the way those relationships actually feel . " <p> Like " Coop and Cami , " she says it differs from a traditional studio show . <p> " There is n't a row of network executives discussing every decision . Pam is the boss . She 's pretty much hand-picked everybody on that set . Everything that happens is because it 's her vision . And she 'll be the first to say it 's a huge collaboration . She obviously does n't do it herself , but it 's all guided by her vision and her aesthetic . " <p> Because of Adlon 's many hats , the cast is afforded the chance to stop and fix things that are not working , or to suggest alternate dialogue or actions . <p> " We can work on it like actors , " Metz said , " which rarely happens because so often the work of making television is more of a technical exercise than anything and you 're always up against time and money . And the creative part of it happens because you 've hired good creative people , but it 's not the focus . And on that show , it really we get to make it the focus , which is a really rare situation . " <h> Posted ! <p> A link has been posted to your Facebook feed . <p> Each year since 1949 , the Emmy Awards have honored the best in primetime television . This year will be no different with the 71st Primetime Emmy Awards on Sept. 22 . New shows including Amazon comedy " Fleabag " and Netflix series " Russian Doll " will compete against previous winner " Veep , " with Julia Louis-Dreyfus ( pictured ) and " Game of Thrones , " both repeat winners that were ineligible in 2018. 24/7 Tempo has identified the 35 shows that are the all-time Emmy achievers based on data from the Television Academy . Alberto E. Rodriguez / Getty Images <p> 35 . The Practice * All-time Emmys : 15 * Nominations : 41 * Years : 1997-2004 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series ( 6 ) All of the Emmy awards " The Practice " won were for exceptional acting , aside from the award for Outstanding Drama Series , which it won in both 1998 and 1999 . Actor James Spader won an award for his work in the lead role of Alan Shore , while actors such as Sharon Stone , William Shatner , and Alfre Woodard picked up awards for their guest appearances . Courtesy of CBS <p> 33 . Downton Abbey * All-time Emmys : 15 * Nominations : 69 * Years : 2010-2015 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Hairstyling for a Single Camera Series ( 4 ) The British series about the lives of the aristocratic Crawley family and their servants was a hit on both sides of the pond . As a well-crafted period piece set in the early 20th century , the show also won acclaim for many aspects of its production design . Courtesy of PBS <p> 31 . The Amazing Race * All-time Emmys : 15 * Nominations : 81 * Years : 2001-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Reality Competition Program ( 10 ) The reality show " The Amazing Race " has run for a notable 31 seasons , with a 32nd on the way . The series has n't won an Emmy in the past five years . Its most recent win was for Outstanding Reality Competition Program in 2014 . Courtesy of CBS Television Distribution <p> 29 . Deadliest Catch * All-time Emmys : 16 * Nominations : 51 * Years : 2005-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Cinematography For Reality Programming ( 5 ) " Deadliest Catch " has won five Emmys for its cinematography over its 15-season run . The reality show , which follows fishermen working in the Bering Sea , is undoubtedly a challenge to film due to severe weather , wet conditions , and the nature of working on a moving ship . In an interview with IndieWire , Executive Producer Arom Starr-Paul described the show 's camera operators as " basically professional athletes . " Courtesy of Discovery <p> 27 . So You Think You Can Dance * All-time Emmys : 16 * Nominations : 68 * Years : 2005-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Choreography ( 11 ) " So You Think You Can Dance " has received multiple Emmy nominations and won at least one award during all but two of the years it has been nominated . Unsurprisingly , its most common award has been for Outstanding Choreography . Courtesy of FOX <p> 26. 30 Rock * All-time Emmys : 16 * Nominations : 103 * Years : 2006-2013 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Comedy Series ( 3 ) , Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series ( 3 ) and Outstanding Casting for a Comedy Series ( 3 ) The series was co-created by Tina Fey following her stint as head writer at ' Saturday Night Live , ' and starred Fey and Alec Baldwin . The comedy won 103 Emmy nominations over just seven seasons , and 23 in 2009 alone -- the most of any comedy series in a single awards year . Courtesy of NBC <p> 25 . Mad Men * All-time Emmys : 16 * Nominations : 116 * Years : 2007-2015 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Drama Series ( 4 ) and Outstanding Hairstyling for a Single Camera Series ( 4 ) AMC 's " Mad Men , " a drama about a New York City ad agency during the 1960s and the people who worked there , averaged more than 14 Emmy nominations each year it was nominated . Among honors were four Best Drama Series awards , from 2008-11 , and a Best Lead Actor Emmy for Jon Hamm in 2015 , its final season . Courtesy of Midget Entertainment <p> 23 . Veep * All-time Emmys : 17 * Nominations : 68 * Years : 2012-2019 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series ( 6 ) Julia Louis-Dreyfus struck gold with HBO 's comedy . which ran for seven seasons and ended its run in May 2019 . Louis-Dreyfus already set the record for most Emmys won by a performer playing the same role in a single series ( 6 ) , and could win her seventh on Sunday . Courtesy of HBO <p> 22 . Dancing With the Stars * All-time Emmys : 17 * Nominations : 105 * Years : 2005-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Technical Direction Camerawork Video Control for a Series ( 5 ) " Dancing With the Stars , " in which celebrities team up with professional dancers to compete against one another , has been nominated for multiple Emmy awards every year that it 's been eligible . Last year marked the first since 2007 without a win , though it will have four chances to win this year . Courtesy of American Broadcasting Company <p> 21 . Taxi * All-time Emmys : 18 * Nominations : 34 * Years : 1978-1983 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Comedy Series ( 3 ) and Supporting Actor Comedy Series ( 3 ) " Taxi , " set in a New York City taxicab garage , ran for five seasons . The show took home the award for Best Comedy Series in 1979 , 1980 and 1981 . It also won three supporting actor Emmys for Christopher Lloyd in 1982 and 1983 and one for Danny DeVito in 1981 . Courtesy of CBS Television Distribution <p> 19 . Will &amp; Grace * All-time Emmys : 18 * Nominations : 91 * Years : 1998-2006 , 2017-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Cinematography for a Multi Camera Series ( 5 ) The NBC comedy was revived in 2017 , but has n't won any Emmys since , and will end its run again in 2020 . It was up for three technical awards this year . Courtesy of NBCUniversal Television Distribution <p> 18 . American Masters * All-time Emmys : 20 * Nominations : 56 * Years : 1986-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Documentary or Nonfiction Series ( 9 ) The PBS documentary series has been on air since 1986 and has won 20 Emmy awards , nearly half of which were for Outstanding Documentary or Nonfiction Series , an award the show was nominated for once again this year . Courtesy of PBS <p> 14 . The Sopranos * All-time Emmys : 21 * Nominations : 112 * Years : 1999-2007 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series ( 6 ) " The Sopranos " is often considered one of the greatest TV series . The story of New Jersey-based mafioso Tony Soprano entertained audiences for six seasons . Among its 21 wins , the show won Best Drama Series in 2004 and 2007 . Courtesy of HBO <p> 13 . All In the Family * All-time Emmys : 22 * Nominations : 55 * Years : 1971-1979 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Comedy ( 4 ) and Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series ( 4 ) Norman Lear 's influential sitcom featuring Archie Bunker and family ran for nine seasons . In its first , 1971 , it won Emmys for Best New Series ( the category no longer exists ) and Best Comedy Series . Carroll O'Connor also won four Emmys for his role as Archie Bunker . Courtesy of Columbia Pictures Television <p> 12 . Modern Family * All-time Emmys : 22 * Nominations : 82 * Years : 2009-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Comedy Series ( 5 ) " Modern Family " has been on the air for 10 seasons , with its 11th and final season premiering Sept. 25 . The show has been nominated for at least one Emmy each year it 's been eligible , though it has n't won an award since 2015 . It was nominated for a single award this year , sound mixing . Courtesy of Walt Disney Television <p> 11 . The Daily Show With Jon Stewart * All-time Emmys : 23 * Nominations : 60 * Years : 1999-2015 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Variety , Music or Comedy Series ( 10 ) After Craig Kilborn kicked off the show , Jon Stewart hosted " The Daily Show " from 1999-2015 , and was replaced by Trevor Noah . In the Stewart era , the show won Outstanding Variety , Music or Comedy Series an impressive 10 times , as well as Outstanding Variety Talk Series in 2015 . It also won several awards for writing . Courtesy of Comedy Central <p> 8 . The West Wing * All-time Emmys : 26 * Nominations : 95 * Years : 1999-2006 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Drama Series ( 4 ) Aaron Sorkin 's drama about the inner workings of the White House was an Emmys smash right out of the gate , winning nine awards its first season , more than any other freshman series in Emmy history . The show is also tied with three others for most Best Drama Series wins with four . Courtesy of Warner Bros . Television Distribution <p> 7 . Hill Street Blues * All-time Emmys : 26 * Nominations : 98 * Years : 1981-1987 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Drama Series ( 4 ) The police drama , which ran for seven seasons , won the award for Outstanding Drama Series for its first four seasons , and was nominated the next two years . It was the first series to win the award four times . Courtesy of NBC <p> 6 . Cheers * All-time Emmys : 28 * Nominations : 117 * Years : 1982-1993 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series ( 6 ) The show about a Boston bar where everybody knows your name was popular at the Emmys throughout its 11-season run , collecting the fourth most nominations of any program and the sixth most wins . Rhea Perlman and Bebe Neuwith both won awards for their performances as supporting actresses . Courtesy of CBS Television Distribution <p> 5 . The Mary Tyler Moore Show * All-time Emmys : 29 * Nominations : 67 * Years : 1970-1977 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series ( 5 ) This comedy classic won many awards over its seven-season run . In addition to outstanding writing , the series was also recognized as the Best Comedy Series three consecutive years , starting in 1975 . Courtesy of CBS <p> 4 . The Simpsons * All-time Emmys : 34 * Nominations : 92 * Years : 1989-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Voice-Over Performance ( 14 ) After it was first introduced in short cartoon form on " The Tracey Ullman Show , " the primetime cartoon made its series debut in 1989 and is the longest-running animated series of all time . As recently as 2018 , an award for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Animation was presented to " Simpsons " artist Caroline Cruikshank for her work . The show was nominated for two awards this year . Courtesy of FOX <p> 3 . Frasier * All-time Emmys : 37 * Nominations : 107 * Years : 1993-2004 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Multi-Camera Picture Editing for a Series ( 7 ) The sitcom about the life of radio psychologist Dr. Frasier Crane , played by Kelsey Grammer , won the Emmy for Best Comedy Series five times , a feat matched only by " Modern Family . " " Frasier " also took home an exceptional six Emmy awards in 2004 , its final season . Courtesy of CBS Television Distribution <p> 2 . Game of Thrones * All-time Emmys : 57 * Nominations : 160 * Years : 2011-2019 * Most frequent award : Outstanding Special Visual Effects ( 5 ) This fantasy drama was a massive hit for HBO , and May 's season finale smashed the network 's all-time viewership record . The series has been an Emmy darling , too , garnering the second-most nominations and wins in Emmy history . Just this year , the show broke another record with 32 nominations , the most for a drama series in one year . Courtesy of HBO <p> 1 . Saturday Night Live * All-time Emmys : 65 * Nominations : 260 * Years : 1975-present * Most frequent award : Outstanding Technical Direction Camerawork Video Control for a Series ( 13 ) The long-running comedy sketch show has won the most Emmys of any program . It has also earned the most nominations , by a significant margin . Since premiering in 1975 , SNL has been nominated for at least one Emmy in all but three years : 1981 , 1982 , and 1988 . The last two years marked the show 's best for wins , with a combined total of 16 . Courtesy of NBC <h> Shore roots <p> It was growing up at the Shore that shaped Metz 's love of performance . <p> Both her parents are singers , and the family has been involved with Monmouth Civic Chorus for many years , she said . Her first theater experience , in fact , was an MCC production of " Carousel " as a child . <p> She also took piano lessons locally at a young age ( " someone smartly told my dad that for kids , the best singing lessons are piano lessons " ) , went to arts camps and was selected for the New Jersey Governor 's School of the Arts . <p> And , most key , she says was attending the Freehold Regional High School District Fine &amp; Performing Arts Magnet Program . <p> " I would love to give them a shout out because I knew that I wanted to do this for a living , " she said . " And I think without that program , it would have been hard to make the leap from a general high school education to conservatory . I went to camps , but being able to focus like that I think gave me the confidence to say , ' Yeah , I really want to pursue this professionally . I think I could do this . I think I love it enough . ' So that program was a big deal for me . " <p> After graduating from Freehold in 1992 , she attended Carnegie Mellon School of Drama . <p> After graduation , she says she knew that she did n't want to move to New York , and a showcase in Los Angeles prompted her to move out there . <h> Posted ! <p> A link has been posted to your Facebook feed . <p> A woman shoots a picture of a mural depicting a medical worker with a mask covering her mouth and nose , wearing boxing gloves and angel-like wings on her back is seen on April 14 , 2020 in downtown Denver . Rick T. Wilking , Getty Images <p> A man looks at graffiti depicting bunting in the shape of people with the words " we 're all in this together " written above on a wall in Pontefract , England on April 14 , 2020 , as life in Britain continues during the nationwide lockdown to combat the novel coronavirus pandemic . OLI SCARFF , AFP via Getty Images <p> This picture taken on April 9 , 2020 shows mural artist Liong Fadilah posing with his artwork as local artists join the campaign in the fight against the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak in Depok , West Java . ADEK BERRY , AFP via Getty Images <p> Artist Mauricio Ramirez stands in front of his new mural on April 10 , 2020 at the intersection of 6th and Lincoln on the south side of Milwaukee . The new mural is dedicated to medical workers on the front lines during the Coronavirus pandemic . Zhihan Huang , Milwaukee Journal Sentinel via USA TODAY NETWORK <p> Graffiti by street artist ' Uzey ' depicts the coronavirus and the great toilet roll grab with a lettering reading " spread love , not panic " on a wall in Hamm , Germany , on Easter Monday , April 13 , 2020 . Martin Meissner , AP <p> A man wearing a face mask walks in front of a mural at the Leishenshan Hospital that had offered beds for coronavirus patients in Wuhan , in China 's central Hubei province on April 11 , 2020 . NOEL CELIS , AFP via Getty Images <p> The artists " SULE " and " ZitrOne " spray a graffiti with a coronavirus theme on a wall in Hamm , Germany , on April 8 , 2020 amid the spread of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 . INA FASSBENDER , AFP via Getty Images <p> A cyclist drives past a graffiti painted by artist Kai ' Uzey ' Wohlgemuth featuring a nurse as Superwoman on a wall in Hamm , Germany , on April 8 , 2020 refering to the spread of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 . INA FASSBENDER , AFP via Getty Images <p> A couple stand in front of the " Lennon Wall " with a face mask attached to the image of John Lennon on April 6 , 2020 in Prague where most activities slowed down or came to a halt due to the spread of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 . MICHAL CIZEK , AFP via Getty Images <p> A man walks past a Coronavirus-inspired piece of graffiti in Glasgow on April 4 , 2020 , as life in Britain continues during the nationwide lockdown to combat the novel coronavirus pandemic . ANDY BUCHANAN , AFP via Getty Images <p> A man walks by a mural by Hijackhart , where soldiers wearing face masks fight COVID-19 with disinfectant and hand sanitizers during the coronavirus pandemic on April 4 , 2020 in Los Angeles . APU GOMES , AFP via Getty Images <p> A woman runs past graffiti in the empty streets of Manchester on April 4 , 2020 , as life in Britain continues during the nationwide lockdown to combat the novel coronavirus pandemic . OLI SCARFF , AFP via Getty Images <p> A man photographs a mural of Cardi B that was updated by the artist Colton Valentine to include a face mask to reflect the coronavirus pandemic , in San Antonio , Monday , March 30 , 2020 . Due to the COVID-19 outbreak , San Antonio an many other Texas cities are under stay-at-home orders . Eric Gay , AP <p> A youth wearing a face mask walk past a mural depicting people wearing face masks during the first day of a 21-day government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Mumbai on March 25 , 2020 . India 's billion-plus population went into a three-week lockdown on March 25 , with a third of the world now under orders to stay indoors , as the coronavirus pandemic forced Japan to postpone the Olympics until next year . INDRANIL MUKHERJEE , AFP via Getty Images <p> A Palestinian artist paints a mural reading " By fighting the epidemic , we protect the human being and preserve the earth " as a youth watches him in Rafah in the southern Gaza Strip , on March 29 , 2020 . MOHAMMED ABED , AFP via Getty Images <p> In this file photo taken on March 23 , 2020 , a pregnant woman wearing a face mask as a precautionary measure walks past a street mural in Hong Kong , on March 23 , 2020 . Chinese scientists reported on March 26 , 2020 , it is possible , although rare , for pregnant mothers with the COVID-19 illness to pass the infection down to their babies . The team followed 33 pregnant women from Wuhan , the city where the disease behind a deadly pandemic was first identified -- and found that three babies were infected with the new coronavirus at birth ( a rate of nine percent , albeit in a very small sample ) . ANTHONY WALLACE , AFP via Getty Images <p> A jogger passes by a mural with a message reading " Achoo Covid-10 " in the street on April 1 , 2020 , in Paris , on the sixteenth day of a lockdown in France aimed at curbing the spread of the COVID-19 . FRANCK FIFE , AFP via Getty Images <p> Motorists drive past a large graffiti drawn at a traffic junction urging people to cooperate with the a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the COVID-19 coronavirus , in Bangalore , India on April 1 , 2020 . MANJUNATH KIRAN , AFP via Getty Images <p> A man bikes by a street art mural , depicting a healthcare worker in a face mask by Belgian street artist CAZ , with a hashtag in Dutch that reads ' thank you ' , during a partial lockdown against the spread of COVID-19 in Wetteren , Belgium , Tuesday , March 31 , 2020 . The new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people , but for some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems , it can cause more severe illness or death . Virginia Mayo , AP <p> Graffiti artist Bram De Ceurt works on a street graffiti piece of a nurse with a mouth mask to protect against coronavirus in Antwerp , Belgium , Thursday , March 26 , 2020 . The new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people , but for some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems , it can cause more severe illness or death . Virginia Mayo , AP <p> Members of the Senegalese graffiti collective " RBS CREW " paint informational murals advising how to stop the spread of the new coronavirus , on the wall of a high school in the Parcelles Assainies neighborhood of the capital Dakar , Senegal Wednesday , March 25 , 2020 . The new coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms for most people , but for some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems , it can cause more severe illness or death . Sylvain Cherkaoui , AP <p> A member of the Senegalese graffiti collective " RBS CREW " paints informational murals advising how to stop the spread of the new coronavirus , on the wall of a high school in the Parcelles Assainies neighborhood of the capital Dakar , Senegal Wednesday , March 25 , 2020 . Sylvain Cherkaoui , AP <p> A member of the Senegalese graffiti collective " RBS CREW " paints informational murals advising how to stop the spread of the new coronavirus , on the wall of a high school in the Parcelles Assainies neighborhood of the capital Dakar , Senegal Wednesday , March 25 , 2020 . Sylvain Cherkaoui , AP <p> Graffiti art adorns the bar Pour Choices on East 6th Street on Tuesday March 24 , 2020 in Austin , Texas . Bar owners on the street commissioned graffiti artists from the HOPE Outdoor Gallery to use the boarded up business as a canvas for art with an uplifting message amid the coronavirus pandemic . Jay Janner , Austin American-Statesman/ USA TODAY Network <p> Graffiti art adorns the bar Toulouse on East 6th Street on Tuesday March 24 , 2020 in Austin . Bar owners on the street commissioned graffiti artists from the HOPE Outdoor Gallery to use the boarded up business as a canvas for art with an uplifting message amid the coronavirus pandemic . Jay Janner , Austin American-Statesman/ USA TODAY Network <p> A pedestrian covering her face amidst fears over the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus walks past a wall graffiti creating awareness about the pandemic , in Mumbai on March 23 , 2020 . INDRANIL MUKHERJEE , AFP via Getty Images <p> A graffiti of Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro wearing a face mask is seen on a wall while a delivery man rides a bike in downtown Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , on March 24 , 2020 during the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic . The Rio de Janeiro state government is requesting people not to go to the beach or any other public areas as a measure to contain the coronavirus pandemic . MAURO PIMENTEL , AFP via Getty Images <p> Graffiti showing Gollum from " Lord of the Rings , " holding a roll of toilet paper with note " My precious , " on March 23 , 2020 in Berlin , Germany . The coronavirus and the disease it causes , COVID-19 , are having a fundamental impact on society , government and the economy in Germany . Public life has been restricted to the essentials in an effort by authorities to slow the spread of infections . Hospitals are scrambling to increase their testing and care capacity . An economic recession seems likely as economic activity is slowed and many businesses are temporarily closed . Schools , daycare centers and universities remain shuttered . And government , both federal and state , seek to mobilize resources and find adequate policies to confront the virus and mitigate its impact . Maja Hitij , Getty Images <p> S.F. , a 16-year-old Greek graffiti artist , spray-paints a design , a woman wearing a face mask referring to protection against coronavirus , on the roof of his apartment block in Athens , Tuesday , March 17 , 2020 . Greece has imposed a wide range of public safety measures to try and contain the coronavirus outbreak , including school and store closures . The vast majority of people recover from the new coronavirus . According to the World Health Organization , most people recover in about two to six weeks , depending on the severity of the illness . Thanassis Stavrakis , AP <p> A graffiti on the square in front of the cathedral reads " to the devil with corona " in Cologne , Germany , Tuesday , March 17 , 2020 . The city closed all bars and restaurants due to the coronavirus outbreak . All public and private events are banned . For most people , the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms , such as fever and cough . For some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems , it can cause more severe illness , including pneumonia . Martin Meissner , AP <p> A giant graffiti depicting medical staff holding a figure shaped as a boot representing Italy and reading " To you all ... Thanks " , is painted on a side of the Brescia hospital , Italy , Monday , March 16 , 2020 . For most people , the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms . For some , it can cause more severe illness , especially in older adults and people with existing health problems . Luca Bruno , AP <p> A graffiti consisting of the text " Stay Home " and a symbolic novel coronavirus has been sprayed on the ground in Munich , Germany , Monday March , 16 , 2020 . Berlin has closed all Bars and pubs because of the corona virus outbreak in Germany . For some , especially older adults and people with existing health problems , it can cause more severe illness , including pneumonia . Sven Hoppe , dpa via AP <p> Art student Gregory Borlein prepares his graffito with the inscription " The Corona Virus is a Wake up Call an our Chance to built a new and loving Society " on a wall in the slaughterhouse district in Munich , Germany , Saturday , March 14 , 2020 . Only for most people , the new coronavirus causes only mild or moderate symptoms , such as fever and cough . Peter Kneffel , dpa via AP <p> " I was n't excited by what was happening in theater at the time , " she said . " It was a lot of revival musicals , and I 'm a character actor and I could kind of see where I could hope to end up and it 's not really what I wanted to do . And television was just starting to become what it has become . I figured I could always move back , I could always come home and try things out in the city . But I thought graduation was the one time that I could really throw caution to the wind and do something crazy and move across the country . " <p> She spent time in LA growing her community of friends and creatives , working day jobs and performing with small theater companies . <p> " I think for a certain kind of character actor , you 're just kind of waiting until you get old enough to look like you have kids or could have a job or to grow into your personality , which was definitely the case for me , " she said . " Once I started working professionally , I already had a stable life here . I 've seen a lot of people make it big very quickly and the problems that can introduce . I feel very fortunate that I had kind of a gradual , gradual introduction to being a working actor . " <p> While she loves television , Metz also says she would welcome a return to theater in the future . <p> " In theater , there 's the discipline of being able to tell the same story day after day after day in a fresh way . And then television , it 's the discipline of it changing all the time and that you only have a short time with each scene or with each story . So you ca n't rehearse it to death . You ca n't dig every nuance out of it . You have to do the best with the time that you have and that you 're always gon na be learning something else about your character that you did n't know before . It might contradict a choice that you made last season , and you just have to kind of roll with it . It 's just a different muscle . " <p> As for the current world standstill due to coronavirus , Metz keeps a positive outlook as those in the performing arts continue to make new art in new ways . <p> " Creative people are going to find ways to be creative no matter what obstacles you put in front of us , which is super inspiring , " she said . <p> Ilana Keller is an award-winning journalist and lifelong New Jersey resident who loves Broadway and really bad puns . She highlights arts advocacy and education , theater fundraisers and more through her column , " Sightlines . " Reach out on Twitter : @ilanakeller or email ikeller@gannettnj.com. 
@@84629349 <p> Boxes of personal protection equipment ( PPE ) and medical supplies are shown in an Oklahoma City warehouse where the state has amassed a stockpile for its COVID-19 response . CHRIS LANDSBERGER/The Oklahoman <h> Oklahoma still waiting on shipments of personal protective equipment <p> Boxes of personal protection equipment ( PPE ) and medical supplies are shown in an Oklahoma City warehouse where the state has amassed a stockpile for its COVID-19 response . CHRIS LANDSBERGER/The Oklahoman <p> " We 've had big shipments on some things like gloves . We picked up 3.8 million gloves the other day , another 2 million gloves today , " he said Wednesday . " But what we have n't seen are the big shipments of the N95 masks , which are certainly one of the things that we 're focused on . <p> " I would say I would be comfortable if I had a million N95 masks in the warehouse . Right now , I 'm hovering at about 10% of that , so I 'd like to have a whole lot more . " <h> United States : 672,303 cases , 34,180 deaths <p> President Trump speaks April 14 . He has ordered U.S. funding to the World Health Organization to stop , indicating the desire for an investigation into the mishandled pandemic . <p> Trump on April 16 announced new guidelines for states to restore normal activity , easing restrictions in areas with low transmission of the coronavirus while holding the line in harder-hit locations . Certain criteria must be met , including a downward trajectory of documented COVID-19 cases within a 14-day period and a robust testing program in place for at-risk health care workers . <p> For states and regions that satisfy the criteria for a " phase one " opening , the guidelines recommend that vulnerable individuals should continue to shelter in place . Others who go out should avoid socializing in groups of more than 10 people in places that do n't provide appropriate physical distancing . It 's recommended that bars remain closed , but theaters , sporting venues and churches can open " under strict physical distancing protocols . " <p> Alex Brandon/Associated Press <h> Italy - 172,434 cases , 22,745 deaths <p> A worker sanitizes streets near San Marco , in Venice on April 6 . <p> A scandal over coronavirus infections and deaths in Italy 's nursing homes took on broader dimensions , with the National Institutes of Health conservatively estimating on April 17 that at least 6,773 residents had died since Feb. 1 , 40% of them either infected with the virus or with COVID-19 symptoms . <p> Criminal investigations of nursing home deaths and infections are underway as prosecutors got involved after staff reported managers preventing them from wearing protective equipment and masks for fear of scaring the residents . <p> Andrew Medichini/Associated Press <h> Spain - 188,068 cases , 19,478 deaths <p> Health workers cry during a memorial for their COVID-19 infected co-worker , a nurse at the Severo Ochoa Hospital in Leganes , Spain , on April 10 , 2020 . <p> Spain 's government is allowing workers to return to some factory and construction jobs . The country on April 13 reported its lowest daily growth in infections in three weeks . Retail stores and services remain closed , and office workers are strongly encouraged to keep working from home . A prohibition on people leaving home for anything other than groceries and medicine will remain for at least two weeks under the state of emergency . <p> On April 17 Spanish leaders ordered the country 's 17 autonomous regions to unify the criteria on counting the dead , who previously were not tested for COVID-19 . <p> Manu Fernandez/Associated Press <h> France - 147,101 cases , 17,941 deaths <p> A child walks on the deserted Republique square on April 1 during a nationwide confinement . <p> President Emmanuel Macron urged employees to keep working in supermarkets , production sites and other businesses that need to keep running amid stringent restrictions of movement . <p> Travel between EU and non-EU counties has been shut down . People in Paris are required to carry a special document if they leave their homes explaining why . <p> Thibault Camus/Associated Press <h> United Kingdom - 107,769 cases , 14,607 deaths <p> A deserted Regent Street on April 14 shows lockdown life in London . <p> British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was the first major world leader to test positive for the virus and left the hospital April 12 . Prince Charles also tested positive for COVID-19 on March 25 . <p> A lockdown was imposed March 23 and on April 16 was extended for at least three more weeks . <p> Britain 's official death toll has come under increasing scrutiny because it does not include any deaths at home or in nursing homes . <p> Alberto Pezzali/Associated Press <h> Iran - 79,494 cases , 4,958 deaths <p> Iran 's military completed work March 26 on a 2,000-bed field hospital in an exhibition center in the capital . <p> The death toll in Iran is likely nearly double the officially reported figures , due to undercounting and because not everyone with breathing problems has been tested for the virus , a parliament report said . The report 's worst-case figures would put Iran 's death toll potential as high over 8,500 , with some 760,000 total cases . That would catapult Iran to the country with the highest number of infections in the world . <p> The April 14 report came as Iranian President Hassan Rouhani continued to push for a slow reopening of the country 's economy . <p> Ebrahim Noroozi/Associated Press <h> China - 83,760 cases , 4,632 deaths <p> A farewell ceremony is held April 15 for the last group of medical workers who came from outside Wuhan to help the city during the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan . <p> China acknowledged April 17 that the coronavirus death toll for Wuhan was 50% higher than previously reported . The reasons listed : deaths of people at home , mistaken reporting by medical staff and fatal cases at a few medical institutions that were n't linked to the epidemic information network . <p> World Health Organization has supported the reopening of markets where live animals are butchered in Wuhan , though the move has drawn much criticism . <p> Schools are still closed , temperatures are checked when people enter buildings and masks are strongly encouraged . <p> Ng Han Guan/Associated Press <h> Germany - 138,456 cases , 4,193 deaths <p> The Pariser Platz square in front of the German landmark Brandenburg Gate is deserted in Berlin . <p> German authorities have issued a ban on more than two people meeting outside of their homes , which they believe will be easier to follow than locking people in their homes . <p> Bavarian Gov . Markus Soeder also said the state is implementing strict restrictions on visits to hospitals , retirement homes and other facilities where people may be particularly vulnerable . <p> Germany has seen far fewer deaths than other European countries with a similar number of reported infections . Experts said that rapid testing as the outbreak unfolded meant Germany has probably diagnosed a much larger proportion of those who have been infected , including younger patients who are less likely to develop serious complications . <p> Germany has partially closed its borders with five neighbor . <p> Markus Schreiber/Associated Press <h> Central and South America - 4,000+ deaths <p> A mural in Bogota , Colombia , is pictured April 13 during a government-ordered lockdown . <p> Brazil 's governors are defying President Jair Bolsonaro , who contends lockdowns will deeply wound the already beleaguered economy and spark social unrest . On March 24 he urged governors to limit isolation only to high-risk people and lift strict measures they have imposed . The country 's governors said they would continue with their strict measures . On April 16 , Bolsonaro fired his health minister . <p> The governor of a state in central Mexico is arguing that the poor are " immune " to COVID-19 . Mexico 's government this week broadened its shutdown of non-essential activities to the private sector and prohibits gatherings of more than 50 people . <p> Fernando Vergara/Associated Press <h> Netherlands - 29,383 cases , 3,327 deaths <p> A sign asks visitors to observe social distancing in a field of tulips in Lisse , Netherlands , on March 26 . The Dutch government extended its ban on gatherings to June 1 . <h> Middle East ( outside Iran ) - 2,144 deaths <p> A worker disinfects chairs outside the the historical Sultan Ahmed Mosque in Istanbul on March 21 . <p> Turkey on April 12 introduced a new lockdown that took many by surprise and led to Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu offering his resignation . The 48-hour curfew across 31 cities marked a major development in Turkey , which has seen more than 1,700 deaths , second in the region only to Iran . <p> Afghanistan imposed a lockdown on its western Herat province , which borders Iran . Saudi Arabia expanded its curfew hours in the cities of Mecca , Medina and Riyadh . <p> The holy city of Mecca , which able-bodied Muslims are called to visit at least once in their lives , and the Prophet Muhammad 's mosque in Medina were cut off to potentially millions of pilgrims , with Saudi Arabia making the extraordinary decision to stop the spread of the virus . <p> Emrah Gurel/Associated Press <h> Africa - 18,792 cases , 967 deaths <p> Residents desperate for a planned distribution of food for those suffering under Kenya 's coronavirus-related movement restrictions push through a gate and create a stampede April 10 , causing police to fire tear gas and leaving several injured . <p> Close to 20 African countries have closed their borders , and several are now under lockdown . In Egypt , a nationwide curfew from 7 p.m. until 6 a.m. started March 25 . <p> An unprecedented lockdown in South Africa started March 27 for 57 million people . Two people with COVID-19 were charged with attempted murder because they did n't obey orders to isolate themselves . Dozens have been arrested for violations . Dog-walking is barred in South Africa , along with running , alcohol sales and cigarette sales . Borders are closed to human traffic . <p> Khalil Senosi/Associated Press <h> India - 13,495 cases , 448 deaths <p> An Indian traffic policeman works road art created to raise awareness about coronavirus in Gauhati , India , on April 15 . <p> On March 24 , Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a three-week countrywide lockdown covering nearly one-fifth of the world 's population . It was later extended to May 3 . Modi said restrictions may be eased after one week to help daily wage earners and those working in agriculture . <p> India has implemented a 19th-century epidemic law that empowers public officials to enforce more rigorous containment measures and impose penalties and punishments for escapes . <p> India 's tourist ministry shut down the Taj Mahal , its iconic " monument of love , " to visitors . <p> Anupam Nath/Associated Press <h> South Korea - 10,635 cases , 230 deaths <p> A Buddhist monk trying to donate blood is checked March 24 for his temperature by a Korea Red Cross official . <p> Health authorities in South Korea have been actively using personal information -- including immigration , public transportation , credit card and smartphone GPS data -- to track patients and their contacts . Details about the places that patients visited before testing positive are posted online and shared through smartphone alerts to others . <p> Markets were shuttered while South Korea 's military sent hundreds of its doctors and soldiers to aid in treatment and quarantines . Bishops in South Korea shuttered churches for what they said was the first time in the Catholic Church 's 236-year history there . <p> The National Assembly passed a law strengthening the punishment for those violating self-isolation , more than tripling the fine and adding the possibility of a year in prison . <p> Ahn Young-joon/Associated Press <h> Russia - 32,008 cases , 273 deaths <p> A Russian traffic police officer checks documents of a driver to ensure a self-isolation regime in Moscow on April 13 . <p> On March 31 , the Russian capital woke up to a lockdown obliging most people in the city of 13 million to stay home . The government ordered other regions of the vast country to quickly prepare for the same . <p> Russia has closed hotels to visitors and is requiring travelers to have a pass showing they are not carrying the virus . Russia closed its land border to travelers from China in January . <p> Russia 's parliament approved harsher punishments for violating quarantine regulations and spreading " fake news . " Evading quarantine will be punishable by heavy fines , and if it leads to two or more people dying , by up to seven years in prison . Heavy fines are outlined for those who spread misinformation about the outbreak . If it results in a death , then the perpetrator faces up to five years in prison . <p> Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced a state of emergency until May 6 <p> Japanese companies have been slow to switch to working remotely , and many people are still commuting , even after a state of emergency was declared for seven prefectures , including Tokyo . <p> Jae C. Hong/Associated Press <h> Israel - 12,855 cases , 148 deaths ( West Bank/Gaza : 2 deaths ) <p> A woman walks her dog March 23 at a closed food market in Tel Aviv . <p> Israeli Jews are being forced to scale back or cancel beloved traditions and rituals marking Passover , the holiday celebrating Israelites ' freedom from Egyptian bondage and referencing biblical plagues . Communal preparations have been canceled . Police are enforcing stay-at-home orders and a general lockdown through April 10 . <p> Authorities have closed all malls , restaurants , cinemas , gyms and day care centers , and have urged anyone who can work from home to do so . <p> The head of Israel 's shadowy Shin Bet internal security service said March 17 that his agency received Cabinet approval to start deploying its counter-terrorism tech measures to help curb the spread of coronavirus . <p> The new plan would use mobile-phone tracking technology and a review of credit card data to give a far more precise history of an infected person 's movements before they were diagnosed and identify people who might have been exposed . Those in jeopardy would then be notified by text message to self-quarantine . <p> Oded Balilty/Associated Press <h> Complete coverage of COVID-19 <p> The Tulsa World has taken down the paywall down on all content about coronavirus. 
@@84632159 <p> Allison Deger talks with Safwan Fayyad , a 30-year-old senior resident and internist at the Ramallah Medical Complex , about being on the front lines against the coronavirus in the West Bank . " Until now we are keeping pace with the patient load , " Fayyad says , " but if we face a serious outbreak where a majority of people would get sick that would be a disaster here . " <p> A primer from an acclaimed Israeli historian , a beautiful novel that takes place during the 1967 war , and first-hand accounts of Israeli society and the devastation it has wrought in Palestine . Here are 10 more books on Palestine/Israel to read while you 're staying in . <p> Dr Reem Khamis-Dakwar reflects as a Palestinian from Israel currently living in the United States , that it is startling to realize the many commonalities between our two systems of oppression : limited access to health care for marginalized communities , the stereotyping of people of color as disease-spreaders , and the increased impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on these populations . <p> Haidar Eid writes , " In Gaza , staying at home leads to some existential questions and deep soul searching . With time to reflect , I am tempted to cross that invisible thin line separating fiction from reality . The real world of occupation , blockade , apartheid , settler-colonialism , and coronavirus on the one hand , and on the other , the imaginary world of my favorite authors . " <p> Israeli leaders may seize the coronavirus moment to create further ' facts on the ground ' in Palestine through annexation and expansion , as envisioned through the joint US-Israeli ' peace plan , ' Yaser Alashqar writes . They imagine they can defeat the Palestinians , but a campaign for equal rights can not be defeated . <p> Israeli media reported on Monday that Netanyahu and Gantz agreed on a plan to begin formally annexing parts of the West Bank , as early as this summer . " The coronavirus pandemic has been the biggest gift to Netanyahu , " Palestinian political analyst Dianna Buttu told Mondoweiss . " If there 's any time to go forward with annexation , it 's now , when everyone is focused on something else . " <p> Palestinians have entered the third week of lockdown across the West Bank and Gaza as measures to slow the transmission of the coronavirus continue . With schools and businesses closed across the region , many families are choosing to self-isolate at home . 
@@84640248 <p> We continue our conversation with world-renowned political dissident , linguist and author Noam Chomsky . He responds to President Trump 's cuts to U.S. support for the World Health Organization and the surge in deaths in the United States to another record high , and discusses conditions in Gaza , the rise of authoritarianism around the world , and the progressive response . " This is typical behavior of autocrats and dictators . When you make colossal errors which are killing thousands of people , find somebody else to blame , " say Chomsky . " In the United States , it 's unfortunately the case , for well over a century , century and a half , that it 's always easy to blame the ' yellow peril . ' " <p> Amy Goodman is the host of " Democracy Now ! , " a daily international TV/radio news hour airing on more than 900 stations in North America . She is the author of " Breaking the Sound Barrier , " recently released in paperback and now a New York Times best-seller . <h> COMMENTS <h> POPULAR <p> While the current coronavirus outbreak is no doubt zoonotic -- originating from animals -- , scientists said , ministers and senior government officials claim that the pandemic could have accidentally leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology . <h> RECOMMENDED SITES <p> At NationofChange , our mission is to help people create a more compassionate , responsible , and value-driven world , powered by communities that focus on positive solutions to social and economic problems . 
@@84647847 <h> Insist on social distancing from hatred <p> A bakery worker wears a face mask at the bakery to help prevent the spread of the new coronavirus , in Gaza City on March 10 , 2020 . Amid fears of the spread of the novel coronavirus . Photo by Ashraf Amra <p> The last blog post I published was sent from a world which no longer exists . It was written in a pre-COVID , pre-lock-down ' United Kingdom , composed in a place we now call ' normal times ' . It was a review of a theatre play in London 's West End , which itself feels wildly bizarre . There I was sitting inches away from strangers for two hours . Such crazy times , in those far off days . <p> I 've found it hard to write about COVID-19 for this blog . It 's an immense event that touches everything and everyone . It 's hard to get your head around it . It can generate a mental paralysis . Even the language that 's entered our everyday vocabulary already operates at the extremities of expression . " Unprecedented " , " exceptional " , " unimaginable " . But where do you go when our language has already run out of track ? The human mind is forced to hunker down until the virus passes over us , or through us , or does us in . <p> Our political leaders are keen for us not to let our thoughts become too distracted . Keep it simple and we can get through this . It 's a sensible communications plan . So the team that last year gave us ' Get Brexit done ' now want us to #StayHome . <p> And the multi-dimensional way in which COVID-19 operates only tightens the mental lock-down . Personal life is interrupted . Work life changes ( or stops ) . Community life is simultaneously diminished and enhanced . The national conversation is transformed to a single theme . In the UK , we 've finally stopped talking about Brexit and no longer define ourselves in realtion to it . The economic consequences of that decision now look miniscule compared to the potential fallout of the government 's financial rescue programme . Nobody wants to start thinking about the consequences of another generation of austerity when our social infrastructure still has n't recovered from the last great recession a decade ago . But that debate ca n't be postponed for long . <p> Right now , most of us , are understandably focused on those nearest to us . Our children , our parents , our friends and neighbours . Are they okay ? Can I help them ? Or , if our own health is fragile , we 're rightly concerned about protecting our own wellbeing . <h> All in this together ? <p> " We 're all in this together " has become the great mantra of national solidarity . It 's both true and false . The biology of the virus could be said to be ' egalitarian ' in its behaviour . But the communities it passes through are certainly not . COVID-19 did not emerge from some pristine laboratory ( unless you believe the conspiracy theorists ) and neither is it travelling through the world vacuum packed . Everything about COVID-19 has context . <p> The virus moved from animals to humans in a context . That context is highly likely to have some strong climate change related origins along with long standing trends in global food production . Once human to human transmission began it moved swiftly because of international air travel and the route it took reflects our global supply chains and trading relationships . There 's nothing random or metaphysical about how any of this has happened . <p> And when it reaches where you live , there is context too . Authoritarian government , democratic government , political ideologies , strong health systems , weak health systems , religion and culture all play a huge part in what happens next . And even within a single society COVID 's impact can be vastly different . Invariably though , the weakest , most vulnerable , least financially secure end up suffering the most . It turns out that in practice COVID-19 does not treat all its hosts in the same way . <p> The micro-beast <p> In trying to get a mental grip on this **27;440;TOOLONG and its power to infect every cell of society , I wrote a list of what COVID-19 is capable of doing ( in no particular order or ranking of significance ) : <p> COVID-19 is a multiplier of kindness <p> COVID-19 is a generator of anxiety <p> COVID-19 is an accelerator of change <p> COVID-19 is a challenge to accepted wisdom <p> COVID-19 is a cover for political power grabs <p> COVID-19 is an exposer of inequality <p> COVID-19 is an exploiter of vulnerability <p> COVID-19 is a perpetuator of lies <p> COVID-19 is a truth teller <p> I 'm sure you could add to this list . <p> All I 'm observing here is that our world , and in particular humanity , is one mass of tangled interconnections . And COVID-19 is nudging , pulling , stretching , and ripping its way through that mass with endless consequences . <h> Passover truths <p> Earlier this month we held a Zoom Seder night to connect with our older children for Passover from their lock-down in Leeds . The Exodus story we recount each year is a multi-layered religious myth . That means that although the events we remember may never have happened , they are still packed with truth . <p> The truths Passover can reveal change over time , depending on how our current circumstances influence our reading of the text . So this year , when we retold the story of the ten plagues and their role in the liberation of the Hebrew slaves from Egypt , one truth stood out . Plagues can trigger dramatic and transformative change with social , political and ethical consequences . Hang on to that thought , as I 'll come back to it . <h> Israel/Palestine <p> My normal ' beat ' in for this blog is Israel/Palestine and how it plays into the 21st century Jewish condition . Over the last decade of writing , I 've tried to challenge what have become accepted wisdoms about the meaning and interpretation of Jewish history . I 've questioned our Jewish understanding of safety and security . I 've charted how the relationship between Israel and the Palestinian people has distorted our Jewish identity and undermined long standing traditions and values . But is there a COVID-19 ' angle ' to my on-going critique of Jewish communal politics ? How is Palestinian freedom and Jewish wellbeing infected by coronavirus ? <p> Like everywhere else , COVID-19 arrived in Israel/Palestine within an existing context . The context is the same power imbalance , the same human rights abuses , the same occupation and blockade that existed in pre-COVID ' normal times ' . COVID-19 plays out unfairly just as everything else does in that part of the world . The pre-existing dynamics make some minor adaptations and then , by and large , it 's business as usual . That 's certainly the picture witnessed by Mondoweiss ' Palestine reporter Yumna Patel , based in the West Bank : <p> " Despite widespread shutdowns , curfews , and quarantines , Israel has continued to raid Palestinian cities and towns , arrest and imprison Palestinians , demolish homes and tear down structures , and facilitate attacks carried out by settlers . " <h> Gaza <p> The Gaza context for COVID-19 is one of the most frightening on the planet . It 's already been globally isolated for the last 13 years thanks to Israel 's stance and the co-operation of its western allies . Gaza 's economy and health system were shattered long ago . The tiny strip 's population of 2 million are the ultimate example of COVID vulnerability . As Jonathan Cooke wrote recently in The National : " Unless Gaza enjoys a miraculous escape , an epidemic is only a matter of time . The consequences hardly bear contemplating . " <p> If that happens Israel will undoubtedly put the blame squarely on Hamas . That 's despite still being effectively responsible for the territory under international law . Global public opinion may be less willing to see it Israel 's way . But that 's assuming people have the emotional bandwidth to absorb the news of COVID tragedies beyond their own national borders . <p> A COVID-19 catastrophe in Gaza will be the next test of Jewish communal leadership around the world . It would be better not to behave as Israel 's local public relations officer . But old habits die hard , even when they do more harm than good . Some social distancing from the government in Jerusalem would be a healthier response from the Board of Deputies , and others , this time around . But I 'm not optimistic . COVID compassion is likely to run short of supply when it comes to Palestinians . <h> Exit strategies <p> For the richer Western countries that have experienced the pandemic first , the talk is all of exit strategies . How to end the social distancing , re-boot economies , and return to normal . But ' normal ' was not so great for most people . many of us would like to take the opportunity to be more ambitious . Or is that just too na ? ve ? <p> In business and in politics , leaders like to say that you should never let a good crisis go to waste . What they mean is that an emergency always creates an opportunity to implement change which would be more difficult in normal times . This is true and we should n't shy away from adopting this approach to our COVID-19 exit strategies . <p> The role of disease in shaping humanity 's outlook has always been underestimated . As we 're learning today , epidemics and pandemics can be historical ' players ' just as much as kings and queens , emperors and tyrants . The question is , are we free to decide what those consequences should be ? <p> COVID-19 is without doubt an accelerator of change and we may see that taking place in everything from the geo-political rivalry between America , Russia and China to how often we need to travel to the office . But can we hope to plan for any of this in a constructive way ? <p> The combination of climate change and globalisation may mean that pandemics , like extreme weather , are no longer freak events that visit us only once or twice a century . Preparing for this and adjusting in ways which avoid economic shocks that hit the most vulnerable ought to be the new priority . There are good signs that this may be possible . <p> Listening to the science has become the new orthodoxy for our political elites . When we exit this crisis we should n't leave that behaviour behind , we should take it with us . It 's been the demand of Climate campaigners for years and the current crisis has forced politicians to become accustomed to letting medical and environmental facts dictate social and economic policy . That has to continue but in more managed , sophisticated way that creates just transitions rather than destroying livelihoods overnight . <p> Some ways of thinking , some political ideologies , some religious attitudes will not serve us well in the years ahead . When it comes to my blogging ' beat ' , I 've said before that Climate change makes Zionism obsolete as a strategy for Jewish security . Pandemics make it redundant too . Fortress states based on ethnic privileges are no longer practical responses to the greatest challenges we face . <p> As with the biblical epic of liberation we tell to ourselves each Passover , let 's make this plague one that changes the course of our history too . In 2020 , a nationalist ideology dependent for its continuance on the on-going subjugation of a neighbouring people is not only immoral but unsustainable in every respect . And it 's infected every aspect of modern Jewish experience . It 's time to let it pass over . <h> COVID-19 as creative metaphor <p> I began this blog by describing the mind numbing effects of COVID-19 and how the new vocabulary it 's generated had paralysed my thinking . <p> I 've found a way through the writer 's block though . I want to turn the language of pandemics into creative metaphors . Let the new words and phrases we 've become accustomed to shape our exit from this time of contagion . If you think it sounds na ? ve , you 're right . But if you have a better set of priorities then let me know . <p> So here 's my edgy Jewish exit strategy . <p> Source PPE against hypocrisy <p> Make ' key workers ' heroes all year round <p> Introduce universal testing for kindness <p> Insist on social distancing from hatred <p> Build up our resilience against fear <p> Develop herd immunity against cynicism <p> Unmute our voices of compassion <p> Scale up the mass production of solidarity <p> Most of us will get through this . Sadly , some will not . But in the meantime we need to take good care of ourselves and those around us . <p> I see we 're still talking about race . PBS just ran a series titled " The Gene : An Intimate History " ( https : **32;469;TOOLONG ) -- at one point several geneticists stare solemnly into the camera and announce that race theory is ... bunk . There are no such things as " races " , not in any meaningful way .... Read more ? <p> You Must Be Logged In To Vote00You Must Be Logged In To Vote <p> 7 hours ago <p> Misterioso <p> https : **39;503;TOOLONG ... " Netanyahu 's son says he ' hopes ' leftists will die of coronavirus following protest " " Yair Netanyahu 's tweet was reply to photo posted by chairman of the left-wing party Meretz at a Tel Aviv protest against corruption Haaretz Apr. 17 , 2020 " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's son , Yair Netanyahu , wrote on Twitter ... Read more ? <p> You Must Be Logged In To Vote00You Must Be Logged In To Vote <p> 5 hours ago <h> Robert Cohen <p> Cohen is a British writer . He blogs at Micah 's Paradigm Shift . http : **37;544;TOOLONG 
@@84672142 <h> Muslims try to keep Ramadan spirit amid virus restrictions <p> BAHTIM , Egypt ( AP ) -- Every year during Ramadan , the Light of Muhammad Mosque sets up long tables on the street and dishes up free meals at sunset for the poor to break their daily fast . It 's a charity that many rely on in this impoverished district on the edge of the Egyptian capital . <p> But it 's too dangerous in this era of the coronavirus -- in Egypt and in many Muslim countries , such " Tables of the Compassionate " have been barred . <p> So the mosque , which like others in Egypt had to shut its doors as a precaution against the virus , will use the funds that would have gone into the free communal tables to distribute packed meals and cash to those in need . <p> " We hope this could ease their suffering , " said Sheikh Abdel-Rahman , the muezzin of the mosque in the district of Bahtim . <p> As Ramadan begins with the new moon later this week , Muslims around the world are trying to maintain the cherished rituals of Islam 's holiest month without further spreading the outbreak . <p> At the heart of Ramadan is the sunrise-to-sunset fast , meant to instill contemplation of God . But alongside the hardship of abstaining from food and drink for hours every day , the month sweeps everyone up into a communal spirit . Families and friends gather for large meals at sunset , known as iftars . In some countries , cafes and cultural events are packed late into the night . Worshippers go to mosques for hours of evening prayers , or " taraweeh . " Many devote themselves to charity . <p> Muslims now find themselves cut off from much of what makes the month special as authorities fight the pandemic . Many countries have closed mosques and banned taraweeh to prevent crowds . Prominent clerics , including in Saudi Arabia , have urged people to pray at home . <p> Governments are trying to balance restrictions with traditions . <p> Lebanon , Iraq , Syria and Egypt loosened their curfews , moving them back to start anywhere from a half hour to 90 minutes after sunset . That gives time to get to Iftar , but not much : people ca n't go too far to visit others for the meal unless they 're prepared to stay the night . <p> Other countries have banned long internal travel . Syria gave people a window of two days this week to move between provinces , then restored its ban . <p> In Malaysia , Mohamad Fadhil said he was resigned to missing out on the surge in business at the Ramadan bazaar , where he and other sellers hawk food and drinks in crowded open-air markets . The bazaars have been shut down . <p> But he hoped the country 's lockdown will be eased so he can bring his 7-year-old daughter home . She was at his parents about an hour away when the lockdown began six weeks ago , trapping her there . <p> " I hope we can be together as a family during Ramadan , " he said . <p> In Indonesia , the world 's most populous Muslim nation , the government has banned millions of government employees , soldiers and police from travelling home during the Eid al-Fitr , the holiday marking the end of Ramadan . <p> " Fear of coronavirus has blocked us from celebrating Eid with my parents , " said Rachmad Mardiansyah , a civil servant in Jakarta . <p> The loss of communal charity meals will particularly hurt as people lose jobs under coronavirus restrictions . Some are rushing to fill the void . <p> In Kashmir , the Muslim-majority territory contested by India and Pakistan , volunteers wearing masks and gloves drop off sacks of rice , flour , lentils and other staples for Ramadan at the doorsteps of those in need in the city of Srinagar . <p> They try to do it quietly , so not even the neighbors know they are receiving help . <p> " We have to take care of these people 's self-respect , " said one volunteer , Sajjad Ahmed . <p> Ta ? b Soc ? , a famous Muslim preacher on Rfm , a private radio station in the Senegalese capital , Dakar , said that while the government is taking action , " the rich must also help the poor . " <p> " Solidarity must be in order . This is what the Prophet Muhammad did during times of war . COVID-19 is like a war , " he said . <p> Donors ca n't help everywhere when need surges so quickly . <p> In the Gaza Strip , the group Salam Charitable usually receives donations from Turkey , Malaysia , Jordan and elsewhere for its Ramadan relief projects . Last year , it was able to distribute 11,000 food parcels and clothes for children . Charities are vital in Gaza , which has been under an Israeli-Egyptian blockade for 13 years , leaving more than half the population of 2 million under the poverty line . <p> This year , giving has dried up . <p> " This time last year , we had already three contracts to give food parcels to the poor . This year we do n't have any , " said Omar Saad , spokesman for the charity . " I think we missed the opportunity because Ramadan is starting soon . " <p> In Pakistan , powerful Muslim clerics forced the government to leave mosques open throughout Ramadan . Mullah Abdul Aziz of the Red Mosque in the capital , Islamabad , ordered adherents to pack communal prayers . Last Friday , worshippers were shoulder-to-shoulder . <p> Still , calls by influential Saudi clerics to stay home also have an effect . <p> " We hear on TV what the big imams say , " said Zaheer Abbas , an Islamabad resident who has been praying at home . <p> " Praying is praying . God is n't only in the mosque . " <p> In Somalia , while people lament the loss of community , Mogadishu resident Osman Yusuf tried to find optimism . The new restrictions " keep you closer to your loved ones for comfort , " he said . <p> Not all Ramadan traditions are rooted in religion . Egypt is known for the TV comedies and drama series it churns out for the month , which are broadcast between the iftar and the pre-sunrise meal . A new batch is being produced for this year , despite coronavirus restrictions . <p> Iraqis have to give up a unique Ramadan tradition : tournaments of a game called " Mheibes . " In the game , teams of up to several dozen people each line up and one member hides a ring in his hand . A member of the other team must guess who has the ring , usually by going up and down the line , trying to read facial tics or other " tells . " The long tournaments are accompanied by sweets and tea and singing . <p> Health authorities pleaded with Jassim al-Aswad , the longtime Mheibes champion and tournament organizer , to call it off for the sake of public safety -- while praising his " preternatural abilities and unrivaled powers of discernment . " <p> The 65-year-old al-Aswad relented . <p> " I feel very sad , " he said . " Ramadan will be devoid of these popular rituals this year ... God wreak vengeance on corona , which deprived us of our most beautiful hobby . " <p> Left : A general view shows the closed El Sayeda Zainab Mosque , as muslims did not attend Friday prayers due to the spread of coronavirus disease ( COVID-19 ) , in old Islamic Cairo , Egypt , April 17 , 2020 . REUTERS/Mohamed Abd El Ghany 
@@84677057 <h> Pompeo says annexation of West Bank is Israeli decision to make <h> Pompeo says annexation of West Bank is Israeli decision to make <p> U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks at a press briefing at the State Department in Washington <p> By Humeyra Pamuk and Arshad Mohammed <p> WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) - U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday it was up to Israel whether to annex parts of the West Bank and said that Washington would offer its views privately to Israel 's new government , drawing a warning from Palestinians who vowed not to " stand handcuffed " if Israel formally took their land . <p> " As for the annexation of the West Bank , the Israelis will ultimately make those decisions , " Pompeo told reporters . " That 's an Israeli decision . And we will work closely with them to share with them our views of this in ( a ) private setting . " <p> Pompeo also said he was " happy " Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and centrist rival Benny Gantz signed a deal on Monday to form a national emergency government , saying he did not think a fourth Israeli election was in Israel 's interest . <p> The coalition agreement says that while the new government will strive for peace and regional stability , plans to extend Israeli sovereignty to Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank - land the Palestinians seek for a state - could advance . <p> The move would mean a de-facto annexation of territory that Israel seized in a 1967 war and that is presently under Israeli military control . It would have to be greenlighted by the United States , after which Netanyahu would be permitted to advance the plans from July 1 , the agreement says . <p> Pompeo 's comment drew condemnation from Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , who said his administration would view agreements with Israel and the United States as " completely canceled " if Israel annexes land in the West Bank . <p> " We have informed the relevant international parties , including the American and the Israeli governments , that we will not stand hand-cuffed if Israel announces the annexation of any part of our land , " Abbas said on Palestine TV . <p> According to Abbas ' office , the televised remarks were recorded shortly before Pompeo made his statement . However , in the wake of that statement , Abbas reviewed his own recorded remarks and approved them for broadcast , Abbas ' office said . <p> The Palestinians and many countries regard settlements as illegal under the Geneva Conventions that bar settling on land captured in war . Israel disputes this , citing security needs and biblical , historical and political connections to the land . <p> A U.S. President Donald Trump 's peace proposal unveiled in January was embraced by Israel and rejected by the Palestinians , partly because it awards Israel most of what it has sought during decades of conflict , including nearly all the occupied land on which it has built settlements . <p> ( Reporting By Humeyra Pamuk , David Brunnstrom and Arshad Mohammed ; Additional reporting by Ali Sawafta in Ramallah and by Nidal al-Mughrabi in Gaza ; Writing by Arshad Mohammed ; Editing by Chris Reese and Alistair Bell ) 
@@84683543 <h> West Bank terror ramming and stabbing attack - watch dramatic video <h> The Palestinian had a pipe bomb that he had intended to use . <p> Video of a Palestinian ramming and stabbing a Border Police officer near Ma'ale Admumim <p> A Border Police officer was moderately injured in a vehicular and stabbing attack on Wednesday morning by the Kiosk Checkpoint in the West Bank town of Abu Dis . <p> The attack , which was captured by a security camera , saw a Palestinian terrorist ram his van into a Border Police officer who had been standing on a raised sidewalk by the checkpoint , which is located near the entry way to the Ma'aleh Adumim settlement . <p> In the security camera footage , a white van can be seen approaching the check point and veering onto the sidewalk and hitting the officer , who got up onto the hood of the van and then fell briefly to the ground . Then , the Palestinian driver then got out of the van and attempted to stab him with a pair of scissors . <p> The two men struggled , with the Palestinian attempting to stab the officer , who repeatedly thwarted him . The officer can then be seen running away from the checkpoint as the Palestinian chased after him and jumped on him from behind . <p> Other officers at the scene raced after them and shot the terrorist , killing him . He was identified as 25-year-old Mohammed Halsa from the village of a-Sawahra . <p> " The terrorist got out of the car and attacked the officer , who was lightly to moderately injured , " the Border Police said . <p> Police said that the Palestinian had a pipe bomb had been found at the scene was neutralized by police sappers . <p> Magen David Adom reported that it had treated and transported to Sha'are Tzedek Hospital in Jerusalem a 20-year old with stabbing wounds that was in moderate condition . <p> The attack comes amid a drop in attacks against Israeli security personnel in the West Bank and Gaza Strip during the deadly coronavirus pandemic . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84697550 <h> Posted ! <h> Join the Conversation <h> Comments <p> Welcome to our new and improved comments , which are for subscribers only . This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you . You do not need a Facebook profile to participate . <p> You will need to register before adding a comment . Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in . <p> Please be polite . It 's OK to disagree with someone 's ideas , but personal attacks , insults , threats , hate speech , advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban . If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines , please report them . <p> BRICK - A Lakewood man was arrested on a charge of resisting arrest after he was caught by police for attempting to use bolt cutters to cut copper out of air conditioning units at a local restaurant , Sgt. James Kelly said in a news release . <p> Kraig Sorensen , 46 , was arrested Wednesday night near the Riverwalk Plaza on Hooper Avenue after he was caught by police attempting to rob the Flaming Grill Buffet , according to Kelly . <p> At approximately 10 p.m. , police attempted to confront Sorensen on the attempted theft , but were ultimately led on a foot chase after he refused to listen to the officers ' orders to stop running . <p> Shortly after an officer chased Sorensen around the plaza , additional officers responded to the scene to help establish a perimeter where Sorensen was then captured while in possession of bolt cutters , Kelly said . A search of Sorensen revealed he was also in possession of a " quantity of marijuana . " <p> Upon further investigation , police found several pieces of cut copper pipe at the restaurant , as well as damage to the air conditioner units and the roof . Kelly said the damage to the business is estimated around $40,000 . <p> Sorensen is charged with theft , possession of burglar tools , obstructing the administration of law , possession of marijuana , criminal mischief , possession of drug paraphernalia and resisting arrest . <h> Posted ! <p> A link has been posted to your Facebook feed . <p> Medical staffers of a Lebanese government hospital dance to music played by a band thanking them for their efforts to support patients during the coronavirus pandemic , in the northern coastal city of Tripoli on April 23 , 2020 . Patrick Baz , AFP via Getty Images <p> Clowns , wearing surgical masks due to the coronavirus pandemic , walk with balloons in al-Nusairat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip as they celebrate with children the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan on April 23 , 2020 . Mohammed Abed , AFP via Getty Images <p> Residents look on as soldiers patrol on the streets of Soweto , South Africa , Thursday , April 23 , 2020 , as the country remains in lockdown for a fourth week in a bid to combat the spread of the coronavirus . Themba Hadebe , AP <p> New York resident Stefanie Ruiz Diaz adjusts the face shield on her nephew Matias Morel as they arrive to Silvio Pettirossi Airport for a flight to Miami , Florida , in Asuncion , Paraguay . Paraguay 's government has organized with several other nations to fly their nationals home , amid a lack of flights due to the global lockdown to contain the spread of the new coronavirus . Jorge Saenz , AP <p> House Speaker Nancy Pelosi walks out of the chamber of the House of Representatives after the debate on the additional $484 billion dollar relief package amid the coronavirus pandemic . Nicholas Kamm , AFP via Getty Images <p> David Maynard sifts through the rubble searching for his wallet , Thursday , April 23 , 2020 , in Onalaska , Texas , after a tornado destroyed his home the night before . Brett Coomer , Houston Chronicle via AP <p> A small group of Muslim clerics pray before looking for the crescent moon which will signal the start of the month of Ramadan in Seapoint on April 23 , 2020 , in Cape Town . Rodger Bosch , AFP via Getty Images <h> Interested in this topic ? You may also want to view these photo galleries : <p> Joshua Chung is the 9-5 breaking news and weather reporter . A lifelong Jersey Shore resident , he is a recent graduate of Michigan State University . Contact him at jchung@gannettnj.com , 732-557-5748 or on Twitter @Joshchunggg 
@@31798442 <h> The virtual events are only expected to last one hour , and are part of the FIDF 's digital alternatives to community events and galas across diaspora communities . <p> By JERUSALEM POST STAFF <p> APRIL 23 , 2020 09:46 <p> US and Israeli soldiers together onstage at the 2019 FIDF National Gala in NY <p> ( photo credit : SHACHAR AZRAN ) <p> Friends of the Israel Defense Forces ( FIDF ) , an organization dedicated to helping men and women in the IDF , has announced Wednesday that they will be arranging virtual events for both Remembrance Day and Independence Day in Israel , according to a press release from the organization . <p> On April 28 , at 2:00 p.m . Eastern , FIDF will commemorate Yom HaZikaron , Israel 's Remembrance Day for fallen soldiers and civilian victims of terrorism , and on April 29 , at 12:00 p.m . Eastern , there will be a virtual celebration of Independence Day . <p> The virtual events are only expected to last one hour , and are part of the FIDF 's digital alternatives to community events and galas across diaspora communities that have been cancelled in light of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic . In recent weeks , FIDF also postponed planned events , including its annual mission to Poland and Israel . <p> Dr. Shmuel Katz , FIDF National Board Member of Miami , FIDF National Director and CEO Maj. Gen. ( Res . ) Meir Klifi-Amir , and Lt. Col. Shai Abramson , the IDF 's Chief Cantor , are all expected to participate in the virtual Remembrance Day ceremony . Reciting Kaddish for the event , a Jewish prayer of mourning , will be Alon Carmeli , father of fallen American-Israeli IDF Lone Soldier Sean Carmeli , who was killed in 2014 during Operation Protective Edge in Gaza . <p> Following Remembrance Day , Brig . Gen. Rotem Yaniv , FIDF National Director and CEO Maj. Gen. ( Res . ) Meir Klifi-Amir , and Cpl . Michael , a Lone Soldier from the Boston area , are expected to reign in Israeli Independence Day , which will be commemorated by the IDF 's Musical Ensemble , together with Eden Alena , a former soldier who will represent Israel in the next Eurovision Song Contest . Comedian and former Lone Soldier Joel Chasnoff will host the event . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@31800958 <h> ' Painful ' : Al-Aqsa closed for Ramadan over coronavirus <p> Jerusalem Islamic Waqf makes ' painful ' decision to close sacred site to worshippers during holy month . <p> 16 Apr 2020 19:51 GMT <p> The decision extends a March 23 ban on Muslim prayer at the Al-Aqsa complex File : Showkat Shafi/Al Jazeera <p> Jerusalem 's Al-Aqsa mosque compound will be closed to Muslim worshippers throughout the holy fasting month of Ramadan due to the coronavirus pandemic , Muslim clerics at Islam 's third-holiest site have announced . <p> Jerusalem Islamic Waqf , the Jordan-appointed council that oversees Islamic sites on the sacred compound , called the decision " painful " . <p> It typically draws tens of thousands of Muslims daily to the mosque and the adjoining Dome of the Rock for evening prayers known as Taraweeh . <p> Muslims believe the site to be where the Prophet Mohammad ascended to heaven . <h> Coronavirus precautions <p> Jerusalem has sites sacred to Judaism , Christianity and Islam , and all three religions have taken coronavirus precautions . <p> Last week , Jews marking Passover in Jerusalem and across Israel were required to stay at home and celebrate only with immediate family . <p> Typically large Passover prayers at Jerusalem 's Western Wall , the holiest place Jews are allowed to pray in the city , were attended by only a handful of worshippers . <p> At the Church of the Holy Sepulcher , what are usually festive , pilgrim-filled Easter ceremonies at the shrine revered as the site of Jesus 's crucifixion and burial have been marked by small groups of clergy , often wearing face masks . <p> Israel has reported at least 140 deaths and nearly 12,600 cases of coronavirus . The Palestinian Authority has recorded two deaths and nearly 400 cases in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip . <p> All mosques in Gaza have been closed since March 25 , and in the West Bank since March 14. 
@@31804045 <h> Attacking BDS From The Left <p> Hannah Dreyfus is a staff writer at the New York Jewish Week . She covers abuses of power in non-profit and religious settings . She heads up the Investigative Journalism Fund , an initiative to fill a gap in investigative and enterprise reporting . Reach her at hannah@jewishweek.org <p> As the BDS movement continues to roil college campuses around the country , the focus of attention in the Jewish community has largely been on students . High-profile and big-money efforts -- $50 million from Las Vegas billionaire and Republican mega-giver Sheldon Adelson , $100 million from the Jewish National Fund -- are underway to help arm Jewish students in fighting the campus wars aimed at delegitimizing Israel . <p> Missing in the loud and troubling debate in any significant way has been the voice of Jewish faculty . <p> That seems poised to change as fast-moving events on the college green are pulling Jewish faculty members off the sidelines of the BDS controversy and into the fray . <p> " Until this academic year , most of my concerned colleagues felt that not responding to every provocation was the best strategy , " said Sylvain Cappell , a math professor at New York University and a longtime critic of academic boycotts . " We were not interested in giving the cause free publicity or stoking the already confrontational atmosphere . " <p> But growing efforts to link Israel with a host of other hot-button issues on campus , including racial injustice and sexual assault , caused Cappell to re-evaluate . He referred to the current campus climate as a " turning point . " <p> " Promoters of BDS have been working overtime to embed themselves in the matrix of progressive concerns and student movements on campus , " said Cappell , who has argued against academic boycotts of Israel on CNN and public radio in the past . " We are at a point where we can no longer ignore the issue . " ( See Opinion piece on page 41 ) . <p> That strategy on the part of BDS supporters -- " intersectionality , " it 's been called -- is fueling a new counterpunch , as some well-known academics , many of them Jewish , are joining forces to press the case against boycotts . <p> The just-launched initiative , the Academic Engagement Network ( AEN ) , aims to unite academics around the country to facilitate constructive dialogue about Israel . Led by Mark Yudof , president emeritus of the University of California system , and Kenneth Waltzer , former director of Jewish studies at Michigan State University , the AEN hopes to combat " Orwellian efforts to link Israel with a multitude of issues , from the shootings in Ferguson to high levels of student tuition , " according to a statement announcing the network released at the end of last month . So far , a " couple hundred " people have signed on , Waltzen said . <p> Unlike previous right-wing groups that have organized efforts to combat BDS on campus , AEN stands on the left side of the spectrum -- " center , liberal and progressive , " Waltzer told The Jewish Week Monday . <p> " I would n't blanche at being called ' pro-Israel , ' but we 're not just cheerleaders -- we 're academics , we 're people who have critical perspectives . What we want is robust conversation , " he said . That conversation does not shy away from criticism of Israel , he said . <p> " We think , quite frankly , that if we 're going to make any headway on campus , we have to use a language that appeals to academics . We 're not interested in ' safe spaces ' ; we 're interested in universities as free and open spaces for intellectual engagement . " <p> Though the majority of AEN members are Jewish , Waltzer said the network aims to engage faculty members from different traditions . Current board members who are not Jewish represent the " multicultural front " the network hopes to present . <p> Waltzer also stressed that the network is not just planning on becoming a " faculty listserv . " <p> " We 're interested in drilling down to foster active membership on campuses . " Those who sign on are expected to write , speak and intervene in administrative decisions of concern , he said . <p> " In the face of activities aimed at vilifying Israel , AEN members will facilitate robust and civilized discussions relating to Israel on campuses , promote academic freedom and freedom of expression , stand for human rights for Arabs and Jews , and engage colleagues and students to better understand these complex issues , " Yudof , the network 's chair , said in the statement . AEN is currently finishing up a manual entitled " Academic Freedom and BDS : A Guide for University Presidents and Administrators , " which they expect to disseminate soon . <p> Though some well-known academic organizations began embracing academic boycotts of Israel in recent years -- notably the Association for Asian American Studies in April 2013 and the American Studies Association in December 2013 -- last weekend the American Historical Association firmly rejected a resolution targeting Israel . The measure , defeated by a 111-50 vote , accused Israel of restricting Palestinian academic activities in Gaza and the West Bank . Jewish institutions lauded the defeat as a step forward . <p> Justin Cammy , associate professor of Jewish studies and comparative literature at Smith College , a private liberal arts institution for women in Northampton , Mass. , joined the AEN because he believes boycotts run counter to the core academic principle of engagement . Though he considers himself on the political left , he finds the BDS movement 's resolution to boycott Israeli " institutions but not individuals " spurious and hypocritical . <p> " Every scholar is embedded in an institution , " Cammy told The Jewish Week . " Once you say you 're going to boycott an entire country worth of people , that goes beyond political decision making . That borders on bigotry . " <p> At Smith , like at several other liberal arts institutions , a " fair share " of professors signed on to an academic and cultural boycott of Israel , Cammy said . <p> " There are colleagues of mine who simply do n't understand that there is no place for illiberal strategies in liberal American education . Once you go to boycotting scholars or institutions of higher learning , you have transgressed the fundamental idea of what education is all about . " <p> Miriam F. Elman , associate professor of political science at Syracuse University and member of AEN , stressed the importance of an organization geared towards faculty , rather than students . <p> " Students are transient -- faculty and administration are here for the long-term . We 're the ones setting the tone and ultimately driving student activism , " she said . <p> At Syracuse , which has the sixth largest population of Jewish students at a private university , according to HIllel International , the problem is largely faculty " steering students in an anti-Israel direction " and an administration that has " refused to intervene , " said Elman . Prior to the launch of the AEN , she and five other tenured professors -- her untenured colleagues are " absolutely not willing " to take a pro-Israel stance for fear of retribution , said Elman -- formed an ad-hoc committee to deal with individual events they found disturbing . <p> In one such incident , Josh Ruebner , a vehement critic of Israel who has been flagged by the Anti-Defamation League for his rhetoric , was invited to speak at the university on Holocaust Remembrance Day . Though Elman tried to organize a protest , the speech went on as planned . In another incident , Steven Salaita , an American scholar whose allegedly anti-Semitic tweets during the 2014 Israel-Gaza conflict caused the University of Illinois to withdraw its offer of employment , was invited to speak on campus . The speech was sponsored by nine academic departments . According to Elman , she spent over 100 hours organizing a response ; on the day of the speech , a few students manned a protest outside the packed auditorium . Norman Finkelstein , the virulent critic of Israel who was banned from entering the country in 2008 was invited to speak on Israel Independence Day . <p> " I feel overwhelmed by what I 'm required to do to keep up a healthy discourse about Israel on this campus , " Elman said , describing the throng of Jewish students who file into her office every semester seeking counsel on how to deal with professors who assign what they think are offensive readings or " shut them down " for voicing differing perspectives . Most students end up dropping the courses , she said . <p> " Professors need support just as much as students , if not more , " she said , a note of weariness in her voice . " We 're in the trenches here . " <p> Correction : A prior version of this story said that the speech by American scholar Steven Salaita was cancelled due to a resolution drafted by pro-Israel faculty members . The speech was not cancelled . A group of pro-Israel faculty members were able to withdraw a resolution put forward in favor of Salita by the University Senate . We regret the error . <p> By signing up , you agree to our terms You hereby accept the Jewish Week Terms of Use and Privacy Policy , and you agree to receive the latest news &amp; offers from the Jewish Week and its partners or ad sponsors . 
@@31809556 <p> Abbas , who was speaking during a meeting of the PA leadership in Ramallah , said that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was assisting the delivery of the funds to Hamas also to prevent reconciliation between the Gaza-based movement and his Fatah faction . <p> " Netanyahu personally takes the money and gives it to Hamas , " Abbas said , referring to the Qatari cash grants that were delivered to the Gaza Strip in the past few weeks . " Netanyahu is doing this personally . What does this mean ? Then he sends to the West Bank weapons , equipment and money . We have laid our hands on 90% of what was sent to us by Hamas . The remaining 10% went to the last terrorist attacks which took place here . Hamas has admitted that it was behind these attacks , and Israel has admitted that Hamas was behind them . " <p> The PA knows that Hamas was behind these attacks , Abbas added . " They Israel give Hamas the money , and we pay the price , " he said . <p> Abbas said that Israel was in a state of " confusion " and suffering from isolation because of its measures against the Palestinians . <p> He also reiterated the Palestinians ' refusal to conduct any negotiations with the US administration and rejection of US President Donald Trump 's yet-to-be-announced plan for peace in the Middle East , dubbing it the " slap of the century . " The US administration , he said , is not an honest broker . <p> Abbas said that all attempts to " tamper " with the security of the Palestinians wo n't stop them from thwarting Trump 's purported peace plan . <p> The Jerusalem Post Customer Service Center can be contacted with any questions or requests : Telephone : *2421 * Extension 4 Jerusalem Post or 03-7619056 Fax : 03-5613699E-mail : subs@jpost.com The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 07:00 and 14:00 and Fridays only handles distribution requests between 7:00 and 13:00 For international customers : The center is staffed and provides answers on Sundays through Thursdays between 7AM and 6PM Toll Free number in Israel only 1-800-574-574 Telephone +972-3-761-9056 Fax : 972-3-561-3699 E-mail : subs@jpost.com 
@@84764542 <h> Arab League deems Israeli West Bank annexation a ' new war crime ' <p> Arab League Chief Ahmed Abul Gheit chaired an urgent virtual meeting Thursday from the Egyptian capital Cairo to discuss how to galvanise opposition to Israeli plans to annex parts of the occupied West Bank ( AFP Photo/- ) <p> Cairo ( AFP ) - The Arab League said Thursday Israel 's controversial proposal to annex much of the West Bank constituted a " new war crime " against the Palestinians , during a virtual conference chaired in Cairo . <p> " The implementation of plans to annex any part of the Palestinian territories occupied in 1967 , including the Jordan Valley ... and the lands on which Israeli settlements are standing represents a new war crime ... against the Palestinian people , " Arab foreign ministers said in a joint statement . <p> The Arab League also urged the United States to " withdraw its support in enabling the plans of the occupying Israeli government " . <p> US President Donald Trump in January unveiled a controversial peace plan to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Rejected by the Palestinians and condemned by much of the international community , the plan gives Israel the green light to annex Jewish settlements and other strategic territory in the occupied West Bank . <p> An Israeli coalition government agreement reached last week includes a framework for implementing the annexations outlined in the plan . <p> Such annexations would violate international law and likely inflame tensions in the volatile region . <p> The Palestinians would be granted a sovereign but demilitarised state in the remaining parts of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip , along with promises of major investment . <p> The Palestinian state 's capital would be on the outskirts of Jerusalem , the contested holy city , which would remain fully under Israeli sovereignty . <p> Palestinians fear the Al-Aqsa Mosque and surrounding compound -- Islam 's third holiest site -- would be effectively under Israeli control . <p> Palestinian foreign minister Riyad al-Malki cautioned against the annexation during the Arab League meeting , saying it would " end the two-state solution " . <p> He said the move would " turn the battle from a political one to an endless religious war ... that will never bring about stability , security or peace to our region " . <p> On Monday , the United States said it was ready to recognise Israel 's annexation of key parts of the West Bank , but also asked the new unity government to negotiate with the Palestinians . 
