@@71841176 <p> Did you know violins can shake the earth ? Such sweet vessels , tiny planetary throats . I was sent an orchestra . They made music , a sorrow , a soaring , that shivered the dirt . I followed the notes to a barbarism . The composer said he created the beautiful hour as a space to think about war , and I heard my mother 's name , a dark cascade of her , I saw again the clamour behind her manner , her harrowed glamour ; I am claiming all of it now not as a violence , but as an inevitability , always justifiable . I guess I do n't want to lose her , no matter the bruises . I have n't seen her in weeks , a memory of cherries , a perishable delight . I stay home , she stays home , and with this distance we become old battlefields , able to appreciate our damages without adding to them . How lucky we are to have homes . How likely it is we will lose them . Months ago we could n't breathe and smoky miracles pulverised the sky , our fussy lungs . Everything is a miracle when you are alive . I am learning that against my will . Today I was sent a pink dwarf kingfisher , a bird thought extinct for over a century , and still , it was someone 's job to look for her , someone waited , camera in hand , for a glimpse of a glorious beak . Outside , I hear the camaraderie of ordinary wings , the chatter of birds we call pests . They do n't seem to mind the lockdown . I dare say they are having fun , a lark . I call my landlord , ask for a reprieve , and hear only birdsong . He 's having fun . I walk out into the park , where , months ago , a man was stabbed near to death ; I sit on the bench close to the stain his blood left and receive a text reminding me to care about Kashmir , and Gaza , and our Uygur brothers and sisters , who I never stopped caring about , and for whom my care did nothing . Forgive me , I sometimes mistake grief for care . The orchestra follows me under the foliage , the violins unrelenting , the world shaken to their curvature , their high-strung demands , as I sift through the scattered lyric of my shattered life to find a way to love a woman , and the birds weave and whirl in the green , laughing at this non-essential work . <p> Omar Sakr is a poet and writer . He is the author of the collections These Wild Houses and The Lost Arabs , as well as the forthcoming novel White Flu . <p> Karen Middleton As Scott Morrison unveils the largest spending measures in the country 's history , officials inside Treasury are drafting plans for an entirely new economy.Alongside those rapidly devising solutions to the immediate threat , a group has begun working on a longer-term plan to make the island continent more self-reliant in times of crisis . <p> Mike Seccombe The federal government has left the enforcement of coronavirus laws to the states , creating great confusion and uncertainty . One federal MP is even advising constituents on how to get around them . <p> Dion Kagan In his debut novel , The Adversary , Ronnie Scott explores the intense friendships and social rituals of young gay men . Here , he talks about trying to read the unspoken intentions of others , and the unintended consequences of our everyday behaviour . " Of course , it makes sense that people would want to decode others , " Scott says . " Hitching your fate to another person or letting someone into a really private part of your life ... is an act of trust . " <p> Barry Jones The coronavirus pandemic has shown that profound social change is possible . It has caused a dramatic transformation in the way major problems are addressed , not only by government , but also in the ways we live , work , travel , purchase , entertain ourselves and interact with others . Long-ignored questions have become suddenly vital . <p> Paul Bongiorno The earth moved on Monday , when the coronavirus pandemic opened up a wide chasm between Australia 's governing Coalition and its political substructure . Do n't take my word for it , take the prime minister 's : ' We are living in unprecedented times with the twin battles that we face and that we fight against the virus and against the economic ruin that it can threaten . This calls for unprecedented action . ' In one fell swoop the commitment to small government and privatisation , to the eradication of debt and deficit as the measure of fiscal rectitude and efficiency , tumbled into the abyss . <p> Richard Ackland Where 's Siiiiimon Reynolds when you need him ? You 'll remember Siiiiimon as the adman who created the Grim Reaper advertisement in 1987 , during the AIDS epidemic . It was a controversial yet highly effective message that drove home HIV awareness . Today the message about coronavirus could be coming into people 's mobile phones , daily , three times a day , whatever it takes . <p> At this point , it is fair to say Australia 's public health response to coronavirus trailed the developed world 's and our police response exceeded it . In many instances this week , one has been mistaken for the other . The public health measures are not in question -- but little evidence has been given to show that special powers of enforcement are necessary . <p> Tony Magnusson The shutdowns in the wake of the escalating Covid-19 crisis have forced art establishments to move fast in creating new and innovative ways to keep galleries relevant when their doors are closed to the public . <p> Geordie Williamson With today 's sequels and spinoffs often eclipsing their source material , Westworld , now entering its third season , takes the trend to a whole new level -- presenting a futurist world of automatons with staggering richness and intricacy . <p> Karen Middleton As Scott Morrison unveils the largest spending measures in the country 's history , officials inside Treasury are drafting plans for an entirely new economy.Alongside those rapidly devising solutions to the immediate threat , a group has begun working on a longer-term plan to make the island continent more self-reliant in times of crisis . <p> Mike Seccombe The federal government has left the enforcement of coronavirus laws to the states , creating great confusion and uncertainty . One federal MP is even advising constituents on how to get around them . <p> Dion Kagan In his debut novel , The Adversary , Ronnie Scott explores the intense friendships and social rituals of young gay men . Here , he talks about trying to read the unspoken intentions of others , and the unintended consequences of our everyday behaviour . " Of course , it makes sense that people would want to decode others , " Scott says . " Hitching your fate to another person or letting someone into a really private part of your life ... is an act of trust . " <p> Barry Jones The coronavirus pandemic has shown that profound social change is possible . It has caused a dramatic transformation in the way major problems are addressed , not only by government , but also in the ways we live , work , travel , purchase , entertain ourselves and interact with others . Long-ignored questions have become suddenly vital . <p> Paul Bongiorno The earth moved on Monday , when the coronavirus pandemic opened up a wide chasm between Australia 's governing Coalition and its political substructure . Do n't take my word for it , take the prime minister 's : ' We are living in unprecedented times with the twin battles that we face and that we fight against the virus and against the economic ruin that it can threaten . This calls for unprecedented action . ' In one fell swoop the commitment to small government and privatisation , to the eradication of debt and deficit as the measure of fiscal rectitude and efficiency , tumbled into the abyss . <p> Richard Ackland Where 's Siiiiimon Reynolds when you need him ? You 'll remember Siiiiimon as the adman who created the Grim Reaper advertisement in 1987 , during the AIDS epidemic . It was a controversial yet highly effective message that drove home HIV awareness . Today the message about coronavirus could be coming into people 's mobile phones , daily , three times a day , whatever it takes . <p> At this point , it is fair to say Australia 's public health response to coronavirus trailed the developed world 's and our police response exceeded it . In many instances this week , one has been mistaken for the other . The public health measures are not in question -- but little evidence has been given to show that special powers of enforcement are necessary . <p> Tony Magnusson The shutdowns in the wake of the escalating Covid-19 crisis have forced art establishments to move fast in creating new and innovative ways to keep galleries relevant when their doors are closed to the public . <p> Geordie Williamson With today 's sequels and spinoffs often eclipsing their source material , Westworld , now entering its third season , takes the trend to a whole new level -- presenting a futurist world of automatons with staggering richness and intricacy . 
@@71850556 <p> Spain has recorded more than 10,000 deaths due to the coronavirus pandemic , Australia has confirmed three more deaths as it passes 5,000 confirmed cases , Prime Minister Scott Morrison has announced free child care for anyone who needs it , and the CSIRO has started trials for two potential vaccines . <p> Meanwhile , New York has gone from one case to more than 83,000 in a month , with the Governor saying the " top of the curve " is another month away and " nobody knows what 's going to happen " . <p> This story is no longer being updated . For the latest coronavirus news and updates , follow this story . <h> Record 6.6 million seek unemployment benefits in the US <p> More than 6.6 million Americans applied for unemployment benefits in the last week , doubling a record high set just one week earlier , as layoffs accelerate due to coronavirus . <p> The report from the US Labor Department showed job cuts are mounting -- the figure for last week is much higher than the previous record of 3.3 million reported last week . <p> The surging layoffs have led many economists to envision as many as 20 million American job losses by the end of April , while the unemployment rate could spike to as high as 15 per cent this month , above the previous record of 10.8 per cent set during a deep recession in 1982 . <h> Workers to have access to two weeks unpaid pandemic leave <p> Attorney-General Christian Porter has announced two weeks unpaid pandemic leave will be made available for employees across a majority of awards . <p> As well , workers covered by the 103 modern awards will be able to take double the duration of leave at half the pay . <p> Mr Porter said the changes will give employers flexibility that " could well make the difference between survival of the business and preservation of the jobs or the failure of the business and the loss of the jobs " . <h> Morrison tears up talking about getting through the crisis with his family <p> " To be honest , I am pleased that my family is with me . They have joined me in Canberra . That is a great comfort to me and I hope it is a comfort to them . But they sustain me and we are just like any other family , I suppose , in many other respects . <p> " You talk to your kids about what this means , and I suppose the really difficult issue for all of us is trying to imagine the world on the other side of this and to give your family some positive and encouraging news about how amazing Australia is and how we all come out of this . <p> " And I think back to my grandmother and how she lived through the Depression , and I remember as a kid being told stories by my grandmother about what they used to do as a family to get through . And we are doing the same thing in our house . We are keeping each other entertained , as I said the other day . Jigsaw sales are soaring , I understand . <p> " You have got to keep your family positive and keep connected and together . To us , our faith is very important to us . That helps us get through each day . But every family is different . Stay together , Australia . " <p> Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton has been in discussions with NSW Police about how to handle eight cruise ships off the coast of the state . <p> The vessels have been refused permission to dock by the Federal Government as it seeks to curb the spread of coronavirus . <p> In Western Australia , another cruise ship is refusing to leave local waters . <p> Mr Dutton told Sydney radio station 2GB he was concerned some cruise companies were not telling the truth about the health of passengers and crew and believed more health assessments were being carried out . <p> " I need to get an honest picture of what is happening . We are going to have a health company by the name of ASPEAN , but also NSW and WA Health and probably QLD Health , do a proper assessment of what is happening onboard , " he said . <p> Earlier , New South Wales Police Commissioner Mick Fuller said doctors would assess up to 9,000 people on board the ships . <p> " We expect in the next couple of days we will start . You can imagine dropping doctors , specialists across eight ships , 9,000 people , it 's a big task . But just from my perspective , if someone needs to come off because of urgent medical reasons , they are being extracted quickly , " he said . <p> " We believe that it is a measure of this global crisis that it is ultimately the right decision , " club chairman Ian Hewitt said . <p> Eight-time Wimbledon champion Roger Federer tweeted the word " devastated " , before retweeting a doctor who called the decision " the need of the hour " . <p> The French Open is currently postponed until late in the year , while the US Open is slated to go ahead at this stage -- despite part of its New York venue being turned into a 350-bed temporary hospital . <h> Half a million businesses have sought help paying wages <p> A total of 496,675 Australian businesses have asked the Federal Government to help cover the cost of wages . <p> Under the $130 billion JobKeeper scheme , announced earlier this week , some businesses will be given $1,500 a fortnight per worker to keep them employed during the coronavirus crisis . <p> The legislation is set to pass Parliament next week when some politicians return to Canberra on Wednesday . <p> Across the border in WA , there have already been 11 COVID-19 cases in the remote Kimberley region , which has prompted the WA Government to introduce even tougher travel restrictions than are in place across the rest of the state . <p> The new measures will restrict movement between the region 's four local government areas . <h> Australians stuck in Nepal arrive home today <p> Hundreds of Australian and New Zealand tourists who had been stranded by the coronavirus pandemic in Nepal have touched down in Brisbane . <p> A chartered flight left Kathmandu last night , carrying 222 Australians and 28 New Zealanders . They had been stranded in Nepal after it extended its coronavirus lockdown -- but the Nepalese Government has since allowed rescue flights to take tourists back to their home countries . <p> Australia 's embassy in Nepal told travellers the flight would cost just short of $3,000 for economy and nearly $4,000 for business class . <p> Evacuee Michael O'Donovan said his risk of infection in the country was low , but leaving was still the best option . <p> " I ca n't stay here indefinitely . At some point I have to go back home , " he said . <p> Passengers will be placed into mandatory quarantine for 14 days . <p> Meanwhile , about 130 Australians who have been on the Ocean Atlantic cruise ship are now on their way back to Sydney from Montevideo , Uruguay via a special charter flight . <h> Energy networks say they wo n't disconnect power for struggling customers <p> Some of Australia 's biggest energy networks have promised not to disconnect electricity and gas for customers in New South Wales , Victoria and South Australia who are suffering financial stress as a result of coronavirus pandemic . <p> Energy Networks Australia announced four measures : <p> Small business customers who " are mothballing over the period of 1 April to 30 June 2020 as a result of COVID-19 " could be eligible for full tariff relief <p> Small retailers who are residential customers and go into default as a result of the virus could be eligible to have their network charged rebated <p> Payment plan incentives -- including the deferral of network charges -- could be arranged for large retailers <p> Residential or small business customers who may be in financial stress will not have their services disconnected without their agreement before July 31 <p> A document issued by the law and human rights ministry stipulated that adult prisoners would be eligible for parole if they had served two-thirds of their sentences , while children would be eligible if they served half of their jail term . <p> Indonesian President Joko Widodo this week declared a national public health emergency in a bid to contain the coronavirus outbreak . <h> Israel links aid for Gaza to recovering soldiers <p> Israel has linked any assistance it might offer for the Gaza Strip 's efforts against coronavirus to progress in its attempt to recover two Israeli soldiers lost during the 2014 war in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Blockaded and impoverished , Islamist Hamas-ruled Gaza has reported 12 coronavirus cases and authorities worry that local health facilities -- with just 96 ventilators for a population of two million -- are insufficient to contain a contagion . <p> " The moment there is talk of the humanitarian world in Gaza -- Israel also has humanitarian needs , which are mainly the recovery of the fallen , " Defence Minister Naftali Bennett told reporters . <p> " And I think that we need to enter a broad dialogue about Gaza 's and our humanitarian needs . It would not be right to disconnect these things ... and certainly , our hearts would be open to many things . " <p> Hamas has never stated whether the two Israeli troopers are dead or alive , but neither has it provided a sign of life , something it did in a similar case . <h> The US accepts aid from Russia <p> Russia has sent the United States medical equipment to help fight the coronavirus pandemic following a phone call between the countries ' two presidents . <p> The Russian military transport plane carrying 54 tonnes of ventilators , masks , respirators and other items left an airfield outside Moscow and was expected to arrive in the United States on Wednesday night ( local time ) . <p> US President Donald Trump , who has been struggling to fill shortages of ventilators and personal protective equipment , accepted the offer from Russian President Vladimir Putin after they discussed the COVID-19 crisis in a phone call . 
@@71857357 <p> Olfat Mahmoud , left , and Helen McCue : " Helen and I always laugh together , even when the situation is miserable . " Credit:James Brickwood <p> OLFAT : I was in the Gaza Hospital , Beirut , in 1982 , treating a family who were injured by a cluster bomb , when someone said : " There 's a foreigner waiting for you outside . " She was wearing a light pink dress and said , " I am a nurse if you need a hand . " I said , " Today is not a good time . " After three hours she was still there , she was very determined . Even that first day , she told me : " It seems we will work together . We will get on well together . ' ' <p> I introduced her to friends and family in the nearby refugee camp where our family fled to from Palestine in 1948 . Helen became like a family member . When she stayed with us in the camp , my family looked after her . My father would get her the food she likes , especially eggplant stuffed with minced lamb . <p> She realised most of the nurses in the hospital were n't qualified and said , " I can train them . " I was impressed ; she 'd left her job as a consultant to come and do volunteer work . <p> Advertisement <p> When she left after six months , we kept in touch . She told me she was building an aid agency , Union Aid Abroad . I came to Australia in 1984 with three other Palestinian nurses . We went to community health centres to observe how they worked and to receive training . <p> I remember a time Helen and I drove down to Pambula on the NSW South Coast . I loved her parents ' house and was most impressed with the kitchen that looked over the bush at the back and the view of the beautiful river below . I cooked them mujudarah , a Palestinian lentil and rice dish that they all loved . We also went horse-riding on the beach and Helen began to teach me how to swim . <p> " My husband , Mahmoud , was screaming and laughing : ' Come and look at what she is doing . ' " <p> Olfat Mahmoud <p> During that time I learnt from Helen not just nursing skills , but also how to train nurses and talk to staff . I returned to Lebanon after six months and continued to work in the hospital . <p> I was married in 1986 , and Helen visited over the years with work . In 1990 , Helen was staying in the camp and washing her clothes . My husband , Mahmoud , was screaming and laughing : " Come and look at what she is doing . " Helen was hanging wet clothes on the electricity lines that were hanging low on the roof of the house . Thank god the power was off . <p> I have four children . In 1998 when my youngest boy , Hani , was born , I was very sick . Helen stayed with me for more than a month in the hospital . She got a cot beside me . She was supposed to be doing her PhD . <p> Loading <p> In 1992 , she brought Australia 's then foreign minister Gareth Evans to the camp to view one of our projects . He also visited my home . <p> Helen and I always laugh together , even when the situation is miserable . We tell jokes . I am a private person but Helen taught me how to speak publicly . She also encouraged me to write my memoir , Tears for Tarshiha . <p> Sometimes we disagree . I 'm against medication . If I 'm in pain and have a headache , I like to treat the cause . Helen says , " Take medication if you are in pain . " This is a cultural thing . <p> Helen 's very intelligent with a big heart . When we meet people in Lebanon , I introduce her as my Australian sister . <p> HELEN : I met Olfat in the emergency room of Gaza Hospital . I 'd resigned as a nursing consultant from the World Health Organisation after Lebanon 's Sabra-Shatila massacre . <p> We had mutual friends who 'd suggested I contact her when I arrived in Beirut . When we first met I found Olfat quiet , serious , beautiful and at 22 , very young to be in charge of the emergency department . In spite of the numbers , the needs and chaos , she remained calm and worked tirelessly.After work , we 'd go to her parents ' house in the Burj al-Barajneh refugee camp , in southern Beirut , where I 'd often sleep . There were only a few foreigners in the camp , which at the time held between 12,000 and 15,000 people in one square kilometre . <p> When I first met Olfat 's family , I remember the warmth and acceptance , especially from her mother . I felt very loved . Her mother , father and eight siblings had fled their home in Tarshiha , Palestine , in 1948 during the war . <p> At that time , Olfat and I never went to other parts of the city as it was very unsafe for Palestinians , especially after the massacre . It was only years later when the situation was better that we went with Olfat 's boys to the ice-cream shop and we 'd have cake and coffee . <p> I set up the aid agency because of my experience in that camp . I wanted to do something longer-lasting . In 1984 , Union Aid was funded to train a group in community nursing in Australia for six months , including Olfat . <p> Loading <p> We have collaborated on health-care training , particularly for women 's issues , and running childcare centres in the Burj camp . Between ' 85 and ' 92 , I visited once or twice a year . <p> Olfat inspires me . She 's a natural teacher . While I 'm determined , I get upset more easily . I 'd get very angry at the situation in the camps but she 's such a clear thinker . I learnt acceptance from her in a way I 'd not known before . I learnt patience . <p> In 1994 , I started my PhD . I wondered what made Palestinian women so strong , so independent . I did my PhD on gender and Islam because of our friendship . <p> We have a very deep connection . During Olfat 's fourth pregnancy , she got pre-eclampsia a potentially fatal medical condition . I flew in to nurse her and I thought she was going to die.We 've never had a fight . One thing that annoys me is she 's always connected to the news . Every few minutes , her phone beeps . I say , " Turn that bloody thing off . " She 's had a lot of trauma . When you watch news , you 're re-traumatising yourself . <p> Her bravery , courage and leadership are extraordinary , as is her determination to help people . She is one of the most important voices for Palestinian refugees . 
@@71864893 <p> As millions around the globe contemplated New Year resolutions on 31 December 2017 , Israel 's ruling Likud party came up with one of its own . Its Central Committee overwhelmingly endorsed a resolution seeking to extend Israel 's legal jurisdiction to its settlements in the West Bank , home to some 400,000 Israelis . <p> Noting the 50th anniversary of the ' liberation ' of the West Bank , the resolution called on Likud 's elected officials ' to allow free construction and to apply the laws of Israel and its sovereignty to all liberated areas of Jewish settlement in Judea and Samaria ' . <p> Like New Year resolutions elsewhere , Likud 's was non-binding . That , and its timing , possibly explains why it attracted little media attention . But it may prove an important marker in the burial of the two-state solution . Steven Cook , a senior fellow at the US Council on Foreign Relations , commented that the resolution had ' significant consequences ' as ' a prelude to annexation ' . <p> In the government halls that matter most in Israeli and Palestinian affairs -- Jerusalem and Washington -- the resolution captured the spirit of the time . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is at his most credible when he denies any possibility of a Palestinian state . His Education Minister Naftali Bennett , one of two Jewish Home party representatives in the current Knesset , lauded Donald Trump 's 2016 electoral victory as a tremendous opportunity for Israel , signalling ' the era of the Palestinian state is over ' . <p> The two-state solution , Bennett told a gathering of Jewish students in New York in March 2018 , was a terrible idea and ' we 're done with that ' . Citing the example of Israel 's annexation in 1981 of the Golan Heights , he spoke of the benefits of international amnesia . ' It 's never pleasant two weeks after , but after two months it fades away , and 20 years later and 40 years later it 's still ours . ' <p> Early in his presidency , President Trump gestured towards an open mind , commenting , ' I 'm looking at two-state and one-state and I like the one that both parties like . ' The idea that ' both ' parties could possibly agree on what they like was fanciful . In any event , Trump 's subsequent actions made clear that the US was n't interested in using its clout to help the parties find a way through the maze of claim , counterclaim and mutual acrimony . <p> Writing in The Atlantic in May 2018 , Israeli author Yossi Klein Halevi described Israelis and Palestinians as caught in a cycle of denial . ' The Palestinian national movement denies Israel 's legitimacy , and Israel in turn denies the Palestinians ' national sovereignty . ' The latter ' sovereignty ' is greatly weakened by the schism between the feeble Palestinian Authority ( PA ) in the West Bank and the Islamist Hamas in Gaza . <p> For Israel , it is the gift that keeps on giving . Of the parties most closely entwined in the conflict , the PA has the strongest interest in a two-state solution and the least capacity to do anything about it . It governs fully in less than a quarter of the West Bank , which , under the Oslo Agreements of the early 1990s , remains divided into Areas A , B and C. The PA has full control of Area A , about 18% of the whole territory . Israel has full control of Area C , about 60% . Area B , the remainder , is divided between Palestinian civil control and shared security control . <p> The terminal problem for two-staters is what to build the state with . Israeli settlement has so sliced and diced the West Bank that it 's hard to imagine how the geographic shards might meaningfully be gathered together . US Ambassador Friedman has argued that settlements occupy only 2% of the West Bank . If true , that would make settlements easier to remove . But it completely overlooks the settlements ' administrative reach . Israeli Human Rights Organisation B'Tselem calculated in late 2017 that the settlements and their governing ' regional councils ' directly controlled 63% of Area C and 40% of the West Bank overall . <p> Besides the West Bank 's geographic fragmentation , there 's the open sore of the Gaza Strip , ruled by Hamas . In its revised charter , Hamas hinted for the first time in 2017 that it might accept ' a fully sovereign and independent Palestinian state , with Jerusalem as its capital along the lines of the 4th of June 1967 ' . That amounts to a two-state solution , if not one that Israel would accept . <p> The charter also described armed resistance as the ' strategic choice for protecting the principles and the rights of the Palestinian people ' . This points backwards . Israel has long declared that it wo n't negotiate if under fire ; Palestinians retort that Israel wo n't negotiate unless it 's under fire . <p> A week after the Likud Central Committee 's New Year resolution , Daniel Kurtzer , former US ambassador to Israel and Egypt , now at Princeton University , wrote that Israelis and Palestinians were careening towards a one-state reality , which ' carries extremely dangerous risks ' . <p> These risks hark back to Israel 's decades-old ' trilemma ' of deciding what it wants to be : Jewish , an occupier or a democracy . It ca n't be all three . The two-state solution was premised on the idea of ending the occupation , thereby preserving both Israel 's Jewish identity and its democratic ways . <p> Former Prime Minister Ehud Barak warned in mid-2017 that if Israel kept control of the area from the Mediterranean to the river Jordan , ' it would become inevitably -- that 's the key word , inevitably -- either non-Jewish or non-democratic ' . If Palestinians in an annexed West Bank were given full rights , Israel would quickly become ' a binational state with an Arab majority and civil war ' . Israel 's current path he described as a ' slippery slope toward apartheid ' . <p> According to the CIA 's World Fact Book , in 2017 there were 8.3 million people in Israel , the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem , of which 74.7% were Jewish . The West Bank 's population was 2.75 million , which included 391,000 Israeli settlers . Gaza 's population was 1.8 million . Rounded , this produces a total Jewish population of 6.59 million and a non-Jewish , primarily Muslim Palestinian , population of 6.25 million , a 51:49 split . Take Gaza out and the split firms in Israel 's favour 60:40 . While Israel has always had a significant non-Jewish minority , the larger this minority , the weaker the country 's sense of identity and the more complicated its internal politics . <p> One ' solution ' to the demographic dilemma involves the claim that ' Jordan is Palestine ' , given its high proportion of citizens of Palestinian descent . ' Relocate ' Palestinians from the West Bank to Jordan , so the argument runs , and they 'll have their state and Israel will have demographic and identity comfort . <p> Israeli Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked , also from the Jewish Home party , last February outlined her plan for Israeli law to apply in Area C of the West Bank while Areas A and B would ' be part of a confederation , with Jordan and Gaza ' . She rightly acknowledged that this might seem ' a bizarre option to the international community , but ... in three years from now the international community will understand this is the right solution ' . <p> To many of us , the ' right ' solution has long been two states for two peoples , reached through their own negotiations , supported and encouraged by others . That has n't happened , and there 's no reason to believe it will . <p> Sputtering efforts at negotiations over the past 20 years or so kept the ' peace process ' on life support . They also made it increasingly clear that the two-state solution is dead , overwhelmed by the weight of the past , as well as by myopia , ignorance , inhumanity , indifference , deceit , fanaticism and miscalculation . <p> It 's a long charge sheet . The solution wo n't be rescued by a change of political leadership in Jerusalem or Washington , though we might see more subtle funeral directors . Despite the recent flare-ups on the Israeli -- Gaza border , a new Palestinian uprising does n't seem imminent . A new round of stalemate does . <p> This may well blur the issues that governments around the globe , including the 140 or so that officially recognise a non-existent ' State of Palestine ' , will eventually be forced to consider . Those issues comprise ( at least ) the prospect of Israeli annexations and forced relocations ; a Palestinian statelet in the West Bank ; and an Islamist de facto state in Gaza that offers its citizens little more than rhetoric . <p> That may sound not much different to present-day reality . But governments to date have been able to chant the two-state mantra to avoid having to think anew . To continue in that vein will peddle false hope at best and , at worst , amount to calculated deceit . <p> Author <p> Peter Rodgers is a former Australian ambassador to Israel . His book on the Israeli -- Palestinian conflict , Herzl 's nightmare -- one land , two peoples , was published in 2004 . Image courtesy Flickr user Boris Kasimov. 
@@71869890 <h> News Ltd issues apology to former Labor MP Melissa Parke <p> Following accusations of anti-Semitism , an apology has been published by the mainstream media to human rights advocate Melissa Parke , writes Peter Wicks . <p> ON 26 MARCH this year , something unusual happened . <p> News Ltd was forced to take a big bite of humble pie and print an apology to former Labor MP Melissa Parke in The Herald Sun . This apology came after articles were printed that could have given the impression that Ms Parke was an anti-Semite after she was critical of Israel 's human rights record . <p> To add icing to the cake , as well as the apology , they ran an editorial piece by Ms Parke titled ' Criticism not same as racism ' . <p> This simple fact may seem obvious to you and me , but to many readers of News Ltd , it is not so obvious . It also appears that it 's not that obvious to many members of the Coalition and some members of the Labor Party . <p> Then again , maybe those involved in this saga do n't really believe this matter is anything to do with bigotry . Maybe there is something far more sinister going on . <p> Melissa Parke served as the Labor Member for Fremantle from 2007 through to 2016 . In her nine-year parliamentary career , she achieved vastly more than some managed to achieve in over 20 years . Parke became the Parliamentary Secretary for Mental Health , Homelessness and Social Housing in 2013 . <p> She also sat on several of Parliament 's Joint Standing Committees , including the Joint Standing Committee for Foreign Affairs , Defence and Trade , Committee for Treaties and the Joint Statutory Committee : Australian Commission for Law Enforcement Integrity . She was also appointed Minister for International Development in 2016 . <p> Prior to entering Parliament , Parke worked with the United Nations as a lawyer from 1999 until her election . This saw her based in Kosovo during the peace-keeping efforts , in Gaza working with Palestinian refugees and later in Beirut and New York . <p> Melissa Parke certainly has the international , legal and political expertise to recognise apartheid when she sees it and has become well known and widely respected for calling out human rights abuses . <p> While most see that as a noble and just cause , for others it is viewed as threatening . <p> In 2019 , those threatened by her passion for human rights reared their ugly heads . <p> Having announced her retirement from politics in 2016 , Parke put her hand up to be the Labor candidate for Curtin in the 2019 Federal Election . <p> This was going to be a big call . Curtin was a safe Liberal seat being vacated by Julie Bishop , a high profile candidate would be just what Labor needed . She was quickly preselected and hit the ground sprinting . <p> However , with a candidate so committed to human rights , it did n't take long for those seeking to protect violators to start throwing their accusations and smears . <p> Being a dedicated defender of Palestinian rights , there were soon calls from within the Labor Party for Ms Parke to be stood down as a candidate and articles started appearing in the press smearing her . Some of these articles portrayed Ms Parke as an anti-Semite and pointed to a speech she made at a pro-Palestinian event where she spoke about a pregnant Palestinian woman who had been forced to drink bleach by an Israeli soldier at an Israeli checkpoint in Gaza . Despite efforts by many that this was a false claim , the incident was confirmed and an Israeli soldier was charged over the incident . <p> ' The incident at the checkpoint was not concocted ; it happened . There is no need to invent atrocities , they are occurring on an almost daily basis in the Occupied Palestinian territories . ' <p> Those critical of Parke 's speech did n't take issue with the act of forcing a pregnant woman to drink bleach , nor the mindset that would even contemplate such a heinous act . Their issue was that the matter was being brought up and may cast the Israeli military in a bad light . <p> Ms Parke has a not-so-hidden agenda of wanting to see pregnant women pass checkpoints without having to drink bleach , kids to have access to clean water , medical supplies and reliable power for those in Gaza and for Palestinian families to be allowed to live in their homes peacefully without having to worry about being forced out at gunpoint to make way for Israeli settlers . <p> According to some , this makes her an anti-Semite . If that is so , I wonder what it makes those who are supportive of these things . <p> Amidst the controversy , Melissa Parke put the Labor Party 's interests ahead of her own and stepped down as a candidate . <p> While Parke put the party 's interests first , whose interests were put first by those within the party attacking her as a Labor candidate ? <p> There is a lot of debate around foreign influence in Australia and , intriguingly , many of those leading the campaign against China are also known to be quick out of the blocks defending Israel . <p> The Australian Strategic Policy Institute ( ASPI ) released a report on the number of overseas trips and junkets taken by Australian members of parliament between 2010 and 2018 and funded by foreign entities and governments . This report clearly showed there were more declared trips to Israel than any other country . Almost twice as many trips as there were to China and more than double the trips to the U.S. <p> Federal parliamentarians received 102 sponsored trips to Israel , 63 to China and 49 to the US , a 2010-2018 analysis by Australian Strategic Policy Institute shows https : //t.co/4ZI5sA6GCo <p> ' The largest sponsor of all non-Australian government-funded trips for Federal Parliamentarians was AIJAC . ' <p> The Australia/Israel and Jewish Affairs Council ( AIJAC ) is the Israel lobby in Australia . It is also interesting to note AIJAC 's trips/junkets included flights and accommodation whereas many other sponsors covered accommodation only . <p> AIJAC also sponsor trips for State MPs in several states including NSW and Victoria . <p> Their crime was to speak at an official function in support of Palestine at the Labor Party 's National Conference in December 2018 . Their words were leaked to the media and misrepresented to pressure them into resigning before the election . Given this was an official Labor Party function with only members in attendance these leaks to the press and representative of a foreign government could have only come from Labor Party members . One wonders what the outcome of this would have been if it been about China rather than Israel . <p> In fact , after the last election , media focused on rumours of China lobby involvement in Gladys Liu 's campaign . They ignored the Israel lobby 's efforts to remove two sitting members and a candidate from the expected incoming Labor Government . <p> Melissa Parke 's legal action against those who participated in attempts to brand her an anti-Semite resulted in an apology from The West Australian earlier this year and now News Ltd . Both publications have also published a column by Ms Parke on why legitimate criticism of Israel 's policies is not anti-Semitism . <p> Anti-Semitism is a real thing , however , disagreeing with an Israeli government policy does not make you an anti-Semite . <p> The Israel lobby likes to point to Israel being the only democracy in the Middle East and it 's true , Israel is just as democratic as any other nation that does n't allow millions of its population to vote based on ethnicity and religion . However , there is something those pointing the finger may like to ponder . If being critical of Israeli policy makes someone anti-Semitic , then what does that make the opposition party in Israel ? <p> IA is dedicated to providing fearless , independent journalism , free for all , with no barriers . But we need your help . To keep us speaking truth to power , please consider donating to IA today - even a dollar will make a huge difference - or subscribe and receive all the benefits of membership . Keep ' em honest . Support IA. 
@@71886593 <h> Panel discussion : Atrocities as the new normal <p> Following a succession of severe conflicts that have caused massive loss of life , dislocation and grave human rights violations , the task of the human rights movement today is a daunting one . Has the international community become resigned to irresolvable conflicts and human rights atrocities ? The Lowy Institute hosted Philippe Bolopion , Human Rights Watch 's Deputy Director for Global Advocacy , together with ABC foreign correspondent Sophie McNeill and human rights expert and legal advocate Chris Sidoti for a discussion about the challenges of working against atrocities in countries such as Syria , Yemen , and Myanmar , and how United Nations advocacy can be effective . <p> The discussion was moderated by Lowy Institute Director of Research , Alex Oliver . <p> Philippe Bolopion is the Deputy Director for Global Advocacy at Human Rights Watch , where he contributes to HRW 's advocacy strategies and its advocacy response to crisis situations worldwide . Bolopion has been with HRW since 2010 , travelling extensively to conflict zones such as Burundi , South Sudan , and Mali . He has been UN correspondent with French daily Le Monde and a journalist for France 24 and Radio France International . He reported on the end of the Kosovo conflict in Pristina ( 1999 -- 2000 ) , and is the author of Guantanamo : Le bagne du bout du monde ( 2004 ) . <p> Sophie McNeill is a reporter with the ABC 's Four Corners program and former Middle East correspondent . She has worked across the region including in Afghanistan , Yemen , Israel , Iraq , Pakistan , Syria , Egypt , Turkey , and Gaza . She has received three Walkley awards : in 2016 both for her reporting on the war in Yemen and for her work on the starvation of Syrian children in towns under siege , and in 2010 for her investigation into the killing of five children in Afghanistan by Australian Special Forces soldiers . She has twice been awarded Australian Young TV Journalist of the Year . <p> Chris Sidoti is an expert on human rights law , a senior human rights advocate , and a member of the United Nations Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar since July 2017 . He has been Australian Human Rights Commissioner ( 1999 -- 2000 ) , a commissioner of the Australian Law Reform Commission ( 1992 -- 1995 ) , and has led human rights organisations in Australia and Geneva . He is presently an adjunct professor at the Australian Catholic University . 
@@71889052 <p> Part of the reason the photographs were so special , he said , was because they had not been taken by an official Australian or British war photographer . <p> " The photographer himself is looking at the Australians through a different lens -- almost as the soldier-as-a-tourist phenomenon . " <p> The photos of Australian troops were all taken between 1940 and 1942 in what was then called the British Mandate for Palestine , a region now encompassing Israel and the Palestinian territories . <p> The archive also includes a number of the photos dating from 1917 and 1918 when mounted Australian infantry battalions were on active duty in the region . <p> Peter Ewer is an Australian historian and the author of three books on WWII , including one about the Greek campaign in 1941 , which would have involved many of the soldiers featured in these photographs . <p> He , too , had never heard of this archive before . <p> " They 're something of a treasure trove that I certainly was n't aware of , " he said . " This is a terrific collection of early war photographs of Australians getting ready for action in the Middle East and to that extent , it 's a discovery of some importance . " <h> Fun in the surf <p> Exactly 80 years ago , the first contingent of Australian infantry troops arrived in the Middle East after a voyage that saw them zig-zag their way across the Indian Ocean to avoid the threat of prowling German U-boats . <p> After disembarking in Egypt , most of the troops were transported to camps in Palestine . There , they were trained for months to prepare them for combat . <p> Between 100,000 and 130,000 Australian troops eventually served in the Middle East between 1940-42 , according to historian Mark Johnston , writing in his book , Anzacs in the Middle East . <p> While the collection contains many images of soldiers on parade and in their quarters , a large number of the photos simply show the Aussies having some downtime : playing in the snow , watching camel races , sightseeing and going to the beach . <p> The striking images below were shot during surf carnivals held at beaches in Gaza and Tel Aviv over the years the WWII Australians were stationed in Palestine . <p> It was from these Middle East bases where the Australians were dispatched to fight battles against the Italians and Germans in North Africa , the Germans in Greece and Crete and the Vichy French in Syria and Lebanon . <p> Many never returned from those campaigns having either been killed or taken prisoner . <p> In 1942 , the troops were recalled home as the threat of invasion loomed following Japan 's declaration of war against the Allies and its advance through South-East Asia and the Pacific . <p> But in 1940 , the horrors of war were yet to manifest and the young volunteer soldiers took full advantage of their leave to visit some of the Holy Land 's most famous historical sites . <p> The Australian prime minister , Robert Menzies , paid a flying visit to Jerusalem in February , 1941 and appeared on the balcony of the Australian Soldiers ' Club with the commander of the Australian forces , General Thomas Blamey . <p> You can see them on the balcony above the Matson Photo Service store . Standing in the doorway of that shop is someone resembling Edith Matson . <h> Strike up the band <p> While there were plenty of diversions for the soldiers in between training and , later , campaigns , the America Colony photographers also documented several official military functions including Anzac Day ceremonies , parades and drills . <p> The picture , taken by Damien Parer who was one of a handful of official war photographers working for the Australian Government in the region at the time , shows three servicemen having a drink inside the store . <p> The influx of soldiers on leave in Jerusalem would have provided a big boost to local merchants at the time . <h> The Great War <p> The collection also includes photographs dating back to 1917 and 1918 when mounted troops , including those from Light Horse Brigades , helped to drive out the Ottoman Turks from Palestine at the end of the World War I. <p> However , the nutrients in the gelatine make it susceptible to mould and that appears to have damaged the glass negative , a flaw that has been transferred to the digital print . <p> The Australian content makes up a very minor part of the Matson collection . <p> The vast majority of the photos relate to life of the local Arabs , Jews and Christian colonists who lived together during the late 19th and early 20th century . <p> " With a continual presence in Jerusalem from the late 1800s , the American Colony photographers witnessed many important historical events and personages throughout the subsequent five decades , " writes Todd Bolen , professor of biblical studies , at The Master 's University in Santa Clara , California . <p> " Their work is a splendid visual record that today gives us insights that the contemporary eyewitnesses might never have thought to commit to writing . " <p> The photographic collection was donated to the library in 1978 . In 2003 , the rights were given to the American public . As of today , they remain free of any known copyright restrictions . During 2004 and 2005 , the negative collection was scanned. 
@@71896976 <p> Aussies are well known to fight hard for anything that has " beer " in its name , however , this particular battle was unique in its display of bravery by Anzac troops who risked all to oust the Turks for a valuable ally , Israel . <p> The Battle of Beersheba was fought on 31 October 1917 , when the British Empire 's Egyptian Expeditionary Force ( EEF ) attacked and captured the Yildirim Army Group garrison at Beersheba , beginning the Southern Palestine Offensive of the Sinai and Palestine campaign of World War I. **26;857;TOOLONG <p> There is , however , a rather large problem with this version of history . This legendary battle took place on 31 October 1917 , but Israel did not exist until 1948 . <p> The fact is Australian troops were in that part of the Middle East to take control of Jerusalem for the British Empire and drive out the Ottoman Empire Forces ( the Turks ) . Beersheba was a strategically vital part of the plan . This plan was the Southern Palestine Offensive . <p> Beersheba was vital as it was to be a source of water -- quite important in a desert . It was also a valuable supply depot with access to the railway line and the Hebron Road , which led to Jerusalem . If it could be seized from the Turks , troops could be rapidly deployed to the north and west , cutting off the Turkish lines to Gaza . <p> It was the site of one of Australia 's most celebrated military campaigns , the Charge Of The 4th Light Horse Brigade . Anzac troops advanced on the Turkish trenches at a casual trot and at about three kilometres out , they charged . With the Brigade 's bayonets drawn , their horses charged head-on into machine gun fire and vaulted the trenches , leaving the Turks trapped inside to be killed or captured . <p> During the battle , 32 Australians were killed and another 36 injured . <p> What is offensive about the Southern Palestine Offensive is how history is being rewritten and how our political leaders and even our military leaders are doing nothing at all about it . <p> There are many war memorial monuments scattered around Australia that pay homage to the Australian troops who fought in Palestine , mentioning Palestine by name . <p> A Victorian monument in honour of our Light horsemen in Palestine ( Image by Peter Wicks ) <p> In 2017 , a delegation of Australian politicians and assorted dignitaries headed to Beersheba to celebrate the 100th anniversary of this proud moment in both Australian and Palestinian history . However , the narrative from the host nation was distorted in order to turn the event into little more than a propaganda exercise for the current occupying Israeli Government . <p> The delegation was treated to a re-enactment of the charge of the light horse brigade . Temporary seating had been set up so that the invited guests had a birds-eye view of the great charge that was meant to be an accurate depiction of what had happened a century earlier . <p> Mounted troops charged towards the spectators with the thunderous sound of pounding hooves drowning out all other sounds . That is about where the realism ended and the propaganda began . <p> Many of the mounted troops did n't carry rifles or bayonets ; instead , they carried flags . Some carried the flag of Israel , a country that did n't even exist at the time of the battle and , as such , had nothing at all to do with the battle . Adding insult to injury is the fact that Palestine -- including Beersheba , who our troops fought for -- has been forcibly occupied by Israel since the Nakbah that came 21 years later . <p> The Nakbah , which means catastrophe , was the 1948 Israeli ethnic cleansing offensive that left 15,000 Palestinians dead and 800,000 stranded as refugees while the Israeli forces went on the land grab which sees them occupy so much Palestinian territory to this day . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had downgraded our diggers ' historic charge into some kind of nationalistic flag-waving ceremony . But alas , that was not even the worst of it . <p> " We saw here in Be'er Sheva the Israeli occupiers ' name for Beersheba 800 cavalry go against 4,000 embedded Turks with machine guns , with bunkers . The few won against the many . That 's the spirit of the army of Israel . It stands today . " <p> The Israeli army did not exist during the Battle of Beersheba to have any spirit , neither did Israel for that matter . I would also note that the reputation Israel 's army holds today is likely something many of our diggers would not want to be associated with . Particularly given many of the Palestinians our troops formed friendships with during the Southern Palestine Offensive were either massacred or driven off their land in the Nakbah 21 years later . <p> Netanyahu went on to talk up Israel 's foreign policy , stating : <p> " We set out a simple policy . We seek peace with all our neighbours but we will not tolerate any attacks on our sovereignty , on our people , on our land , whether from the air , from the sea , from the ground or below the ground . " <p> These words from Netanyahu were not just ironic but in the poorest of taste -- intentionally omitting the Nakbah and the very reasons Israel now occupies the land upon which he was standing in order to paint the oppressed as the oppressor . Netanyahu talking of seeking peace with his Palestinian neighbours whose relatives Israeli forces massacred and whose land they continue to steal this day is an insult to anyone with an IQ that ca n't be counted on one hand . <p> Canberra Times cartoonist David Pope was n't falling for it . His cartoon about the travesty drew complaints from Israel 's embassy which only shows that the Israeli Government does n't believe in freedom of speech but are pro-censorship , in stark contrast to the values our military serve to protect . <p> As for the Israeli flags being displayed at a re-enactment and the spirit of the army of Israel 's apparent involvement , was it fortunate that we had so many of our politicians there to set the record straight ? <p> Neither Malcolm Turnbull or Bill Shorten or any of the other MPs attending said a word about this distortion of events and a foreign leader using our veteran 's memories as a propaganda tool , or the fabrication of our diggers ' motivations and allegiances to suit a Zionist agenda . If our federal politicians were n't there to represent Australian troops , who were they there to represent ? <p> I wonder if we would put up with this distortion and misrepresentation of our troops ' memories at Gallipoli . Are the memories of our diggers at Beersheba somehow less valuable ? <p> Last week , I emailed Minister for Veterans Affairs Darren Chester MP with some queries on the Government 's position on this important day in both Australian and Palestinian history . At the time of publication , the only response was an acknowledgement the email had been received . <p> Each Anzac Day we say the words " Lest We Forget " to remind us that the bravery and courage of our troops and the reasons they risked their lives for Australia are things we should never forget . <p> Sadly , the diggers who fought at the Battle of Beersheba have now found themselves as pawns in a propaganda war for a Zionist ideology . Sadder still , in Australia , the government of the very country for which they fought seem totally unconcerned or completely complacent . <p> Today I will be keeping the promise we make each year to not forget these brave men and what they fought for . <p> IA is dedicated to providing fearless , independent journalism , free for all , with no barriers . But we need your help . To keep us speaking truth to power , please consider donating to IA today - even a dollar will make a huge difference - or subscribe and receive all the benefits of membership . Keep ' em honest . Support IA. 
@@71897964 <h> Nine books that reveal the hidden challenges faced by doctors and patients <p> Stories to help us empathise with those on the frontlines . Image : Kaya Bulbul <p> As we grapple with the fears and challenges posed by the coronavirus outbreak , many wonder what it means to be a health worker or a patient in the face of life-threatening disease . <p> A number of talented authors have already taken on this subject and put their experiences into memoirs and non-fiction books . Here are nine books that shed light on how doctors and patients cope with matters of life , death and everything in between . <p> Autobiographies and memoirs <p> Experience the life stories of these renowned doctors , from the intricacies of neurosurgery to the stress of running fertility clinics in warzones . <p> Dr. Henry Marsh describes his successes and failures as a neurosurgeon in ' Do No Harm ' <p> Image : Olga Guryanova via Unsplash <p> Do No Harm : Famous neurosurgeon Henry Marsh depicts , with great humility , the achievements and shortcomings of an impressive 40-year career exploring the brain . Each chapter describes an encounter with a particular pathology and the story of its patient . <p> This is Going to Hurt : Adam Kay presents the gruelling years he spent training as an of OB/GYN through hilarious diary entries . Beneath the humour lies a poignant message regarding the inhumane treatment and working hours faced by young doctors . <p> I Shall Not Hate : Doctor Izzeldin Abuelaish , recounts his life story , from being born and raised in a refugee camp on the Gaza strip , to becoming the first Palestinian doctor to work in an Israeli hospital . Working tirelessly through periods of war to promote women 's health and fertility , Abuelaish has also become an activist for improving Israelo-Palestinian relations , even after losing three of his daughters to war . <p> The patient 's perspective <p> Nobody knows their disease better than the patients themselves . Read these incredible stories from the other side of the operating table . <p> The Unwinding of the Miracle : Vietnamese-born Harvard lawyer Julie Yip-Williams unwinds her life , which was nothing short of miraculous , as she grapples with terminal colon cancer and the unfairness of dying at the age of 42 in a beautiful and honest memoir . <p> When Breath Becomes Air : Neurosurgeon Paul Kalanithi lived the exceptional experience of being both behind the operating table and on it . Having put his life on hold as a neurosurgical resident , Kalanithi conveys , with exceptional eloquence , the difficult process of " learning how to die " . <p> The Diving Bell and the Butterfly : Following a massive stroke , Jean Dominique Bauby finds himself a prisoner of his own body , only able to control a single eyelid . Originally in French , this remarkable book was written thanks to the blinking of that one eye , recounting reflections on life and existence . <p> Books written about the field of medicine <p> Medicine would be stagnant if it were n't for the ever-shifting area of medical research . The following books provide deeper dives into specific fields within health . <p> Dr Siddhartha Mukherjee 's , ' The Emperor of All Maladies ' is an eerily beautiful biography of cancer <p> Image : Brett Jordan via Flickr <p> Gut : Written and illustrated with humour and charm , Giulia Enders presents in simple terms the secret functioning of one of the most important and misunderstood organ systems of the body -- the gut . <p> The Emperor of All Maladies : Celebrated oncologist and author Siddhartha Mukherjee delineates the rich history of cancer , and demystifies it in the process . The book is a journey through time , linking the stories of the physicians and patients who have altered the treatment and evolution of this multifaceted disease . <p> Cure : Science journalist Jo Marchant uses evidence-based theories to investigate the complex interactions between mind and body ( notably the mystical placebo effect ) , through encounters with patients , doctors and researchers from around the world . <p> These titles are just a few of the many books highlighting the emotional and technical complexities of the medical field -- and how it shapes a range of lives . <p> No doubt , future versions of articles like this one will include memoirs detailing the particularly trying times faced by those working as medical professionals in the time of COVID-19 . <h> Now is the time to get Mandarin Premium <p> When public sector leadership is even more critical for Australia , and the business model for quality journalism is under severe threat , there has never been a more important time to join Mandarin Premium . 
