@@51602322 <h> Deeply concerned over lack of medical supplies in IOK : FO <p> ISLAMABAD - Pakistan on Thursday urged the world to intervene amid medical emergency in held Kashmir as coronavirus cases surged in the occupied territory . <p> Speaking at a weekly news briefing here , Foreign Office spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said Pakistan remained deeply concerned at the lack of medical supplies and assistance in held Kashmir where 170 cases of coronavirus had been reported as well as the death of five people . <p> " Voices from within India and around the world continue to condemn the inhuman oppression of the people of Jammu and Kashmir . The world should press India to ensure human rights , " she said . <p> In a joint statement recently , the spokesperson said , six international human rights organizations underscored that measures to combat COVID-19 must respect human rights of every individual and urgently release all political prisoners , human rights defenders and all those arrested in IOJ&amp;K after 5 August 2019 . <p> " These organizations , in their Joint Statement also reminded India of its obligation under international law to ensure the physical and mental health and well-being of inmates , " she added . She said it had been 249 days since the illegal and unilateral action of India on 5 August 2019 . " In the last few days , Indian Occupation forces martyred nine innocent Kashmiris , including Aijaz Ahmed Naikoo , Shahid Ahmed Malik , Waqar Farooq , Muhammad Asharaf Malik , Sajjad Ahmed Hurrah and Aadil Hussain Mir in Kulgam , Kupwara and Sopore areas , " she elaborated . <p> Pakistan , she said , had strongly condemned and rejected the latest Indian action aimed at illegally changing the demographic structure of the Indian occupied Jammu and Kashmir . <p> The so-called " Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Order 2020 , " the spokesperson said , was another illegal step by India to settle non-Kashmiris in held Kashmir by changing the domicile laws . <p> " This is a clear violation of international law , including the 4th Geneva Convention . This Indian action , which is a continuation of India 's illegal and unilateral steps since 5 August 2019 , also constitutes a violation of the United Nations Security Council Resolutions , bilateral agreements between India and Pakistan , and humanitarian norms . At this moment of global health crisis , it is a particularly reprehensible act as it seeks to take advantage of the international community 's focus on the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and further advance BJP 's sinister , " Hindutva " agenda , " she maintained . <p> She said Pakistan had consistently maintained that the international community needs to intervene to address the dire health and human rights emergency in Indian occupied Jammu and Kashmir as a result of the Covid-19 Pandemic . <p> She said that in this regard Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had also written a letter to the President of the UN Security Council urging the Council to play its role in lifting of communication and other blockades in held Kashmir and discussed the matter in his telephone calls with the UN Secretary General and several of his counterparts for Kashmiris ' right to unfettered access to medical and other essential supplies . <p> " Amnesty International has made a similar call to the Indian government to immediately restore full internet services to the Kashmiri people so that people in the region have full access to health- and safety-related information . We have always called for the need for international observers and Human Rights organizations to be given access to held Kashmir to assess the true situation on the ground there , " the spokesperson said . <p> Pakistan , Aisha Farooqui said , strongly rejects the officially-inspired reports that appeared in the Indian media seeking to link Pakistan with the terrorist attack on a Gurdawara in Kabul on 25 March 2020 . <p> " As a country that has suffered the most and has fought resolutely against the scourge of terrorism , including State-sponsored terrorism emanating from across the border , Pakistan firmly believes that such despicable terrorist acts have no political , religious or moral justification , " she added . <p> On Afghanistan , she said , Pakistan a clear stated policy . " Pakistan has always supported a peaceful , stable , united , democratic and prosperous Afghanistan , at peace with itself and with its neighbours . We believe that the signing of the US-Taliban Peace Agreement has created a historic opportunity for the people of Afghanistan . It is imperative that this historic opportunity is seized and all parties work together constructively for securing durable peace and stability in Afghanistan , " she explained . <p> Aisha Farooqui said all Pakistani missions abroad had been instructed to actively engage with the Pakistani community whether to provide information , help those in need of assistance in terms of visa facilitation , food , accommodation or repatriation <p> " The CG has called the prison warden to inquire about the health of Dr. Afia and was informed that she was doing well . Pakistan 's Consulate General will continue to get updates regarding the health of Dr. Afia and would also resume regular visit to the prison as soon as U.S authorities permit such visits owing to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic , " she said . <p> The spokesperson said Pakistan 's two-member solidarity team from Beijing Embassy , comprising officers Junaid and Suleman who had volunteered to go to Wuhan and assist Pakistani students under the lockdown there , had now returned to Beijing . <p> " After lifting of travel restrictions in Wuhan after 76 days , we are immensely proud of them and recognize their commitment and dedication to serve the nation , " she said , adding the Pakistani embassy was in contact with the Pakistani students . <p> On Iran , she said , Foreign Minister Qureshi had a telephone conversation with his counterpart recently . " The Foreign Minister conveyed deep concern and sorrow over the loss of lives in the ongoing pandemic . The Foreign Minister also commended the Government and the People of Islamic Republic of Iran for valiantly combating COVID-19 , " she said . <p> Aisha Farooqui said Pakistan believed that the nuclear deal was a good example of mutually negotiated settlement of a complex issue through dialogue and diplomacy . <p> To a question , she said , Presidential and Parliamentary elections held on 31 March 2020 in Nagorno-Karabakh , occupied territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan , was a clear violation of international norms . <p> " The election constitutes a clear breach of international law and UN Security Council resolutions . It is taken as an attempt by Armenia to hamper the ongoing negotiation process for finding lasting solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict through peaceful means . Pakistan reaffirms its principled position on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and reiterates its support to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan , " she remarked . <p> She said Prime Minister Imran Khan has called for debt relief for developing countries to enable them to direct resources to saving precious human lives and shoring up economies against the economic impact of the of the pandemic . <p> The IMF-World Bank , she said , had issued a joint statement on 25 March 2020 concerning debt relief . The Virtual G-20 Summit hosted by Saudi Arabia held on 26 March 2020 , reaffirmed G-20 Commitment to address debt vulnerabilities . <p> The UN Secretary General , Antonio Guetterres , had also called for " maximum financial and technical support for the most vulnerable people and countries . " To a question , she said the blockade of the Gaza Strip by Israel violated international law and was condemnable . <p> " Pakistan calls for the immediate lifting of the blockade in order for Palestine to fight against the coronavirus pandemic , " she contended . 
@@51602962 <h> Two analogous oppressors &amp; impact of youth bulge in Kashmir/Palestine <p> As the today world continuously watches that both India and Israel , the two analogous oppressors , unjustly continue their military control over Kashmir and Palestine respectively , resulting in two of the most protracted and deadliest conflicts with strong parallels . The Intifadas ( until victory ) led by the dissipated Palestinian youth against the Israeli crackdown on them whilst the resistance steered by the resurgent Kashmiri youth against the Indian occupying forces are so organically similar in nature that the two disputes can metaphorically be called South Asian Palestine and ' Middle Eastern Kashmir . And yet , undeniably , as a young Palestinian and Kashmiri , there is little escape from the violence of the colonial machine . <p> Obviously the variety of tactics used by India under Modi to control the civilian population of Kashmir strongly resembles those used by Netanyahu in Palestine . These unabatedly include , " arbitrary arrests , extra-judicial killings , enforced disappearances , curfews , collective punishment , administrative detention , torture , rape and sexual abuse , the suppression of freedom of speech and assembly , house demolitions , and so forth . " India 's oppression of Kashmiris , however , can not be seen in a vacuum . Over the past decades , the country 's growing ties with Israel have created a situation in which the oppression of Kashmir is linked to Israel 's treatment of Palestinians . It goes an establish fact that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ( RSS ) , a non-state volunteer Hindu paramilitary volunteer group to which the BJP is affiliated , have long desired the repeal of the state subject laws that have maintained the demographic make-up of Kashmir . <p> Ironically , both Tel Aviv and New Delhi claim to be exceptional democracies , despite their treatment of large swaths of populations under their control . Additionally , both Zionists and Hindu Nationalists argue that the existence of many Muslim countries in the world necessitates a Jewish and Hindu state , respectively . This perpetuates the lie that Palestinians and Indian Muslims can supposedly live elsewhere , yet choose to live in Palestine and India only to antagonize Jews and Hindus . But death and devastation are not yet the only fatalities of the failure of the UNSC to resolve the question of the self-determination of the Palestinian and Kashmiri peoples , but also the ongoing reflections on stunted economic growth and lack of economic development are further results of these unresolved national questions . <p> Prompt reminders of a victimised past , dehumanisation , denial of inalienable rights , economic depravity , created by Israeli and Indian occupation forces in Palestine and Kashmir , are some real causes which intensify hostilities against the Governments whose occupying forces execute hardline policies to eliminate youth bulges <p> Today , Netanyahu 's Israel is a glaring example of an ethnic -nationalist political configuration . The Israeli ethnonationalism is deeply rooted in colonial narratives ardently dictating a racial hierarchy of belonging in which the subordination of some members of the population , the out-group , is structurally entrenched and often backed up with physical violence . As per its newly incorporated Nation-State Law , Israel is not a state of its citizens but rather belongs to Jewish people that have a membership and belonging in the state . The full privileges of membership in Israel are extended exclusively to its Jewish population . <p> Similarly , the Modi-advocated revocation of Articles 35A and 370 paves the way for Indian presence in Kashmir to further mirror Zionist presence in historic Palestine , since this allows the Indian state to rule Kashmir directly without the need for Kashmir 's state legislature , which was also recently abolished . Furthermore , it facilitates the execution of plans to alter the demographic make-up of Kashmir by allowing Indians from across the country to purchase property and settle there under the protection of the Indian military presence , just as the demographic make-up of the West Bank continues to be altered with the construction of Jewish-only settlements . Given the insight into the literature on AFSPA and its origins , it is not hard to draw the connection to Israel 's justification of the use of torture and indefinite detention against the Palestinian population by declaring the areas in which it is applied to be in a state of emergency , remaining so for decades . <p> And now with the unprecedented morphing of Jammu and Kashmir 's legal status from a special status state to a union territory ( without a legislative assembly ) , India 's colonial domination over the contested region will become more overtly coercive in representing Indian interests . This is a radical and crucial development to be observed closely by Palestinians who are living in areas where the Israeli occupation is currently facilitated by the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) . With an extremely high fertility rate in both the West Bank and Gaza , the youth population is set to continue growing at a concerning rate . Youth ( aged 15-29 ) comprise 30%i of the total Palestinian population and all children and youth under the age of 29 almost bracket over 50%ii of the population . And yet not surprisingly , in India-held Kashmir , 63% of the valley 's males are under the age of 30 and 70% are below the age of 35 . <p> Academically , the term ' Youth Bulge ' was first coined by Fuller in 1995 and his theory -- was co-supported by three famous political thinkers-Samuel Huntington , Heinsohn and Fukuyama -- as the phase when youth between the ages of 15-l9 and 20-24 , reach a proportion of 20 per cent or more of the total population . This theory of youth bulge rightly applies to the Palestinian and the Kashmiri-waged freedom struggles . Huntington advocated Fuller 's theory and regarded Youth Bulges as ' surging youth populations ' suggesting the idea of the ' critical threshold -- while asserting that the propensity of feuds becomes very high in societies when 20 per cent of its population comprises of youth aged between 15-24 . True , the Palestinian and the Kashmiri societies still encounter movements led by ' young ambitious , unconstrained ' aggressive men . <p> Prompt and callous reminders of a victimised past , dehumanisation , denial of inalienable rights , poor governance , economic depravity , and difficulties of mobility created by Israeli and Indian occupation forces in Palestine and Kashmir , are some real causes which intensify hostilities against the Governments whose occupying forces execute hardline policies to eliminate such youth bulges . Yet make no mistake once the Curfew is lifted in Kashmir , the remonstrance against this revocation bill will remain resurrected by the Kashmiri youth who holds paramount significance in shaping the course of Kashmir freedom movement . Illegally , the Modi government 's introduced new domicile law in India- held Kashmir jettisons the fundamental municipal rights of the native Kashmiris . <p> Ultimately , in aiming to dismantle the Israeli apartheid and an evil role of Hindutva dynamic in Kashmir -- projected by the negative trajectories of Israeli PM Netanyahu and Indian premier Narendra Modi , it is certain that the victimized Palestinian and Kashmiri youth will continue to become agitated and rebel against oppression . Hence , both Kashmir and Palestine have to be re-centred in the global discussion by the UNSC and the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council ( UNHRC where China has currently joined its panel ) around self-determination and the demands of the people who have had lived for so long under colonial military occupation regimes . <p> The writer is an independent ' IR ' researcher and international law analyst based in Pakistan 
@@51603087 <p> Pakistan called elections a clear violation of international norms and a clear breach of international law and UN Security Council resolutions . <p> Responding a question here on Thursday during weekly briefing at Foreign Office of Pakistan , the Foreign Office Spokesperson Aisha Farooqui said that Presidential and Parliamentary elections held on 31 March 2020 in Nagorno-Karabakh , occupied territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan , is ( was ) a clear violation of international norms . <p> " The election constitutes a clear breach of international law and UN Security Council resolutions . It is taken as an attempt by Armenia to hamper the ongoing negotiation process for finding lasting solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict through peaceful means . Pakistan reaffirms its principled position on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and reiterates its support to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan , " she commented . <p> Responding another question regarding situation in Indian Occupied Kashmir after outbreak of Covid-19 , she said that Pakistan has consistently maintained that the international community needs to intervene to address the dire health and human rights emergency in Indian occupied Jammu &amp; Kashmir ( IOJ&amp;K ) as a result of the Covid-19 Pandemic . <p> " In this regard the Foreign Minister has also written a letter to the President of the UN Security Council urging the Council to play its role in lifting of communication and other blockades in IOJ&amp;K and discussed the matter in his telephone calls with the UN Secretary General and several of his counterparts for Kashmiris ' right to unfettered access to medical and other essential supplies . Amnesty International has made a similar call to the Indian government to immediately restore full internet services to the Kashmiri people so that people in the region have full access to health- and safety-related information . We have always called for the need for international observers and Human Rights organizations to be given access to IOJK to assess the true situation on the ground there ' " concluded Foreign Office Spokesperson Aisha Farooqui . <h> Official transcript of briefing is hereunder : <p> Bismillah Ir Rehman Nir Rahim , <p> Assalaam-o-Alaikum , <p> It has been 249 days since the illegal and unilateral action of India on 5 August 2019 . In the last few days , Indian Occupation forces martyred nine innocent Kashmiris , including Aijaz Ahmed Naikoo , Shahid Ahmed Malik , Waqar Farooq , Muhammad Asharaf Malik , Sajjad Ahmed Hurrah and Aadil Hussain Mir in Kulgam , Kupwara and Sopore areas . <p> Pakistan has strongly condemned and rejected the latest Indian action aimed at illegally changing the demographic structure of the Indian occupied Jammu &amp; Kashmir ( IOJ&amp;K ) . The so-called " Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Order 2020 " is another illegal step by India to settle non-Kashmiris in IOJ&amp;K by changing the domicile laws . This is a clear violation of international law , including the 4th Geneva Convention . This Indian action , which is a continuation of India 's illegal and unilateral steps since 5 August 2019 , also constitutes a violation of the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) Resolutions , bilateral agreements between India and Pakistan , and humanitarian norms . At this moment of global health crisis , it is a particularly reprehensible act as it seeks to take advantage of the international community 's focus on the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and further advance BJP 's sinister , " Hindutva " agenda . <p> Pakistan also remains deeply concerned at the lack of medical supplies and assistance in IOJK where 170 cases of Coronavirus have been reported as well as the death of five people . <p> Voices from within India and around the world continue to condemn the inhuman oppression of the people of Jammu and Kashmir . In a joint statement recently , six international human rights organizations underscored that measures to combat COVID-19 must respect human rights of every individual and urgently release all political prisoners , human rights defenders and all those arrested in IOJ&amp;K after 5 August 2019 . These organizations , in their Joint Statement also reminded India of its obligation under international law to ensure the physical and mental health and well-being of inmates . <p> Pakistan strongly rejects the officially-inspired reports that appeared in the Indian media seeking to link Pakistan with the terrorist attack on a Gurdawara in Kabul on 25 March 2020 . As a country that has suffered the most and has fought resolutely against the scourge of terrorism , including State-sponsored terrorism emanating from across the border , Pakistan firmly believes that such despicable terrorist acts have no political , religious or moral justification . We are very well aware of India 's continuous smear campaign against us but are confident that these tactics will not succeed in misleading the world community . <p> In recent days , as part of his continued diplomatic outreach , Foreign Minister Qureshi exchanged views on the situation arising out of the Covid-19 Pandemic and ways to address it with his counterparts from Indonesia , Malaysia , Singapore and Australia as well Secretary General SCO . In these conversations , the Foreign Minister also highlighted the Prime Minister 's call for debt relief and restructuring to help developing countries create the fiscal space needed to combat the disease , save precious human lives and shore up economies . <p> In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak , and as part of the national effort under the leadership of the Prime Minister , and the direction of the Foreign Minister , the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its Missions abroad have established a robust and round the clock out-reach initiative to provide our overseas communities with relief and assistance wherever required . Food rations are being supplied by our Missions across the globe where ever our nationals are facing hardship due to the prevailing pandemic situation . <p> Following the establishment of the Prime Minister 's COVID-19 PANDEMIC RELIEF FUND-2020 " , our Missions abroad have been instructed to share the information widely with our Diaspora communities as well as reach out to donors , philanthropists and suppliers in their areas of jurisdiction . <p> A comprehensive and phased plan for repatriation of our nationals in different countries has been made under which in the past few days : <p> 101 nationals returned from UAE ; 40 from Doha , 170 from Bangkok ; 194 from Istanbul , 128 from Tashkent ; 3 from Tajikstan , and 136 from Baghdad through special flights operated by PIA . Plans for repatriation of our nationals from other destinations are also under active consideration . As this is a dynamic and evolving situation , these plans are being reviewed regularly . <p> Our two member solidarity team from Beijing Embassy , comprising officers Junaid and Suleman who had volunteered to go to Wuhan and assist our students under the lockdown there , have now returned to Beijing following the lifting of travel restrictions in Wuhan after 76 days . We are immensely proud of them and recognize their commitment and dedication to serve the Nation . <p> In response to Afghanistan Government 's special request , and based on humanitarian considerations , it has been decided to facilitate movement of cargo trucks and containers to cross-over into Afghanistan through Torkham and Chaman border crossing points thrice a week ( on Monday , Wednesday and Friday ) from 10 April 2020 onwards . <p> Furthermore , in view of the current situation due to Covid-19 , the government of Pakistan has approved the validity of all types of visas issued to foreign nationals who are currently in Pakistan , that had expired since 15 March , 2020 and are due to expire by 30th April 2020 shall be deemed to be valid till 30 April , 2020 . <p> Thank you very much . <p> Question : What is Pakistan 's stance as Taliban break off talks with Afghan Government on prisoners ' exchange ? ( Rabia Pir , VOA Deewa Radio ) <p> Supplementary Question : Taliban break off talks with Afghan government on prisoner exchange , how Pakistan sees the future of Afghan Peace Agreement and its impact on Pakistan ? ( Muhammad Shoaib Khan , JNN ) <p> Supplementary Question : Taliban have refused to take part what their political spokesperson describes fruitless meetings . Delay in prisoners exchange has already delayed intra Afghan dialogue . As one of the key stakeholders in peace process , how does Pakistan view hurdles in peace process ? ( Tahir Khan , NNI News Agency ) <p> Supplementary Question : Please let me know the current status of Pak-Afghan relations especially after the Taliban broke off talks with the Afghan government on a prisoner exchange , a main step in peace talks being brokered by the United States after it agreed on a troop withdrawal pact with the militants ? Is Pakistan concerned about postponement of the intra-Afghan dialogue over prisoner issue ? ( Asghar Ali Mubarak , The Daily Mail International/ PPA News Agency ) <p> Supplementary Question : How do you see recent development after Taliban backed out of talks with Afghan Government delegation on release of prisoners . Do n't you think it would lead to another crisis in Afghanistan in days to come ? ( Naveed Siddiqui Dawn News ) <p> Supplementary Question : Taliban broke off the talks with Afghan government and announced that it will no longer be holding talks with Ghani administration on the prisoners ' swap . Your comments please ? ( Ali Hussain , Business Recorder ) <p> Question : Would you like to Comment on the Current Situation in Afghanistan . What are the updates ? ( Khawaja Hamza , Media Today ) <p> Question : American Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs Alice wells has warned Kabul of international aid cut if Afghan leaders did not agree to an inclusive govt. what is Pakistan 's position on political crisis in Afghanistan ? ( Tahir Khan , NNI News Agency ) <p> Answer : I will draw your attention to our stated policy on Afghanistan . Pakistan has always supported a peaceful , stable , united , democratic and prosperous Afghanistan , at peace with itself and with its neighbours . We believe that the signing of the US-Taliban Peace Agreement has created a historic opportunity for the people of Afghanistan . It is imperative that this historic opportunity is seized and all parties work together constructively for securing durable peace and stability in Afghanistan . <p> Question : Under the JCPOA all parties of the agreement were bound to honor their commitments towards Iran , but the European signatories have failed to do so especially after the US withdrawal from the deal . Currently Iran is facing difficulty in its fight against Coronavirus , so do n't you think that it is high time that the European countries must step forward and honor their commitments towards the Islamic Republic ? ( Afzal Reza , IRNA ) <p> Question : Did FM Qureshi or any government official talk with Iran on the issue of pilgrims , because they are still coming from Taftan Border ? ( Muhammad Shoaib Khan , JNN ) <p> Answer : As you are aware , the Foreign Minister had a telephone conversation with the Iranian Foreign Minister recently . The Foreign Minister conveyed deep concern and sorrow over the loss of lives in the ongoing pandemic . The Foreign Minister also commended the Government and the People of Islamic Republic of Iran for valiantly combating COVID-19 . <p> Pakistan believes that JCPOA is a good example of mutually negotiated settlement of a complex issue through dialogue and diplomacy . We understand the problems being faced by Iran in combating COVID-19 while facing sanctions . It was in this context that Prime Minister Imran Khan called for lifting sanctions on Iran to enable it to utilise its resources and save precious lives . <p> Question : Sindh High Court has sent notices to Foreign Office , US consulate in Karachi after Afia Siddiqui 's family moved court to get proof of her well being after reports of virus spread in US prisons . Your comments please including any latest update on Afia Siddiqui health . ( Saima Shabir , Arab News ) <p> Answer : Pakistan 's Consul General in Houston has been tasked to inquire the wellbeing of Dr. Afia Siddiqui in view of the spread of Corona Virus . The CG has called the prison warden to inquire about the health of Dr. Afia and was informed that she was doing well . Pakistan 's Consulate General will continue to get updates regarding the health of Dr. Afia and would also resume regular visit to the prison as soon as U.S authorities permit such visits owing to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic . <p> Question : The Presidential and Parliamentary elections were held in Nagorno-Karabakh , occupied territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan on 31 March 2020 . What is Pakistan official take on it ? ( Amjad Ali , PTV ) <p> Answer : The Presidential and Parliamentary elections held on 31 March 2020 in Nagorno-Karabakh , occupied territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan , is a clear violation of international norms . The election constitutes a clear breach of international law and UN Security Council resolutions . It is taken as an attempt by Armenia to hamper the ongoing negotiation process for finding lasting solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict through peaceful means . Pakistan reaffirms its principled position on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and reiterates its support to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Azerbaijan . <p> Question : As China eased lock down , so when Pakistani students in China will be able to return home to visit families , also Pakistani citizens there ? ( Naveed Akbar , Aaj TV ) <p> Answer : Chinese government has lifted lockdown form Wuhan city yesterday , i.e. , 8th April , 2020 . With the lifting of the lockdown , outbound travel has resumed from Wuhan enabling people to travel from there . <p> Question : How many stranded Pakistani nationals from different countries have been successfully repatriated to Pakistan so far ? ( Nuaman Ishfaq Mughal , Daily Parliament Times ) <p> Answer : - <p> Sr. No Country Number repatriated Date <p> UAE 101 March 24 <p> 2 Qatar 40 March 24 <p> 3 Thailand 170 March 28 <p> 4 Turkey 194 April 3 <p> 5 Uzbekistan 128 April 6 <p> 6 Tajikistan 3 April 6 <p> 7 Iraq 136 April 8 <p> Total 772 <p> Question : Many complaints are being received against Pakistan missions abroad in the current situation of corona virus in different parts of the world . What steps are taken by Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding those Missions which are not taking any serious steps in this regard ? ( Aijaz Ahmed , GNN ) <p> Answer : All Pakistani Missions abroad have been instructed to actively engage with the Pakistani community whether to provide information , help those in need of assistance in terms of visa facilitation , food , accommodation or repatriation . All Missions have established dedicated hotlines and focal persons available 24/7 to assist our communities abroad . <p> Question : How many Pakistanis are still stranded in different countries and what arrangements are being made to bring them back ? ( Naveed Akbar , Aaj TV ) <p> Answer : As you are aware this is a dynamic situation constantly evolving . A comprehensive phase wise plan for repatriation of Pakistani nationals has been developed in collaboration with all stakeholders . <p> So far : 101 nationals returned from UAE ; 40 from Doha , 170 from Bangkok ; 194 from Istanbul , 128 from Tashkent ; 3 from Tajikstan , and 136 from Baghdad through special flights operated by PIA . Plans for repatriation of our nationals from other destinations are also under active consideration . <p> Question : While talking to his counterparts and Secretary General of the United Nations and other world organizations , the Foreign Minister demanded that the international community should help and support Pakistan to counter COVID-19 . In addition , IMF should also consider giving economic relief to Pakistan . What has been the response of IMF and international community on this issue ? ( Muhammad Shoaib Khan , JNN ) <p> Answer : -- As you are aware , Prime Minister Imran Khan has called for debt relief for developing countries to enable them to direct resources to saving precious human lives and shoring up economies against the economic impact of the of the pandemic . <p> Foreign Minister Qureshi has since written to his European counterparts and the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy underscoring , inter alia , the need to relieve the debt burden of developing countries to enable them to stem economic decline . <p> The initiative has resonated globally . The EU Foreign Affairs Ministers ' Video-Conference of 23 March 2020 has " discussed how to step up international cooperation and solidarity in order to support the most fragile countries " . <p> The IMF-World Bank have issued a joint statement on 25 March 2020 concerning debt relief . The Virtual G-20 Summit hosted by Saudi Arabia held on 26 March 2020 , reaffirmed G-20 Commitment to address debt vulnerabilities . The UN Secretary General , Antonio Guetterres , has called for " maximum financial and technical support for the most vulnerable people and countries " . <p> Pakistan welcomes these endorsements as steps in the right direction and hopes that these would culminate in concrete steps at the earliest possible . <p> Question : Israel has refused to let ventilators enter Gaza tying it to the release of its prisoners and also the OIC yesterday slammed the treatment of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails . What is your comment on it ? ( Saima Shabir , Arab News ) <p> Answer : Blockade of the Gaza Strip violates international law and is condemnable . Pakistan calls for the immediate lifting of the blockade in order for Palestine to fight against the coronavirus pandemic . <p> Answer : Pakistan has consistently maintained that the international community needs to intervene to address the dire health and human rights emergency in Indian occupied Jammu &amp; Kashmir ( IOJ&amp;K ) as a result of the Covid-19 Pandemic . In this regard the Foreign Minister has also written a letter to the President of the UN Security Council urging the Council to play its role in lifting of communication and other blockades in IOJ&amp;K and discussed the matter in his telephone calls with the UN Secretary General and several of his counterparts for Kashmiris ' right to unfettered access to medical and other essential supplies . Amnesty International has made a similar call to the Indian government to immediately restore full internet services to the Kashmiri people so that people in the region have full access to health- and safety-related information . We have always called for the need for international observers and Human Rights organizations to be given access to IOJK to assess the true situation on the ground there . <p> Question : Would you like to Comment on the recent Statement by Subramanian Swamys of BJP 'S Senior Leader Regarding Muslims ? ( Khawaja Nayyar , Daily Kashmir Post ) <p> The whole world , including India , is facing the Cornavirus crisis , while extremist Hindutva leaders are spewing vitriol against Muslims . Failure of BJP to condemn such statements demonstrates its active support for violence against Muslims as was witnessed in the recent Delhi riots which resulted in over 50 deaths and 350 injuries . <p> Question : From last several days gunfight reports between Indian forces and local freedom fighters in IOJ&amp;K are coming in media , on Sunday Indian army claimed that they have killed several militants near Line of Control who were trying to enter from Azad Kashmir . What your reaction on this Indian clams ? ( Islamuddin Sajid , Anadolu Agency ) <p> Answer : We refute any such allegation completely . It has unfortunately become a staple for the Indian leadership and India 's state controlled media to level false accusations against Pakistan to detract from India 's home grown terrorism against the innocent people of IOJ&amp;K and to appeal to the hard-line RSS/Hindutva inspired electoral base of the present Indian Government . <p> Question : As the Indian government has now introduced a new domicile policy in Indian Occupied Kashmir , OIC and Pakistan both have rejected this move but the international community is still silent over Indian actions in Kashmir , so Pakistan has any plan to move to the International Court of Justice to stop India from changing the Muslim-majority region 's demographics ? ( Islamuddin Sajid , Anadolu Agency ) <p> Answer : Pakistan has strongly condemned and rejected this Indian action which is aimed at illegally changing the demographic structure of the IOJ&amp;K . We believe the so-called " Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Order 2020 " is another illegal step by India to settle non-Kashmiris in IOJ&amp;K by changing the domicile laws . It is a clear violation of international law , including the 4th Geneva Convention . And also a continuation of India 's illegal and unilateral steps since 5 August 2019 , also constitutes a violation of the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) Resolutions , bilateral agreements between India and Pakistan , and humanitarian norms . <p> Question : What are your Comments on the Current Situation in Indian Occupied Kashmir and Killing of the Innocent Kashmiris ? ( Khawaja Hamza , Media Today ) <p> Answer : The current human rights and humanitarian situation in IOJ&amp;K is indeed regrettable since the hardships of the average Kashmiris have only been precipitated following the Covid-19 pandemic , on the footsteps of India 's illegal and unilateral actions of August 5 . We urge India to lift the communication blockade in IOJ&amp;K so that full information on affected Kashmiris and essential items and medical supplies can be provided to the impacted people . <p> Question : Due to Coronavirus the international diplomatic activities have turned slow , but the Foreign Minister 's diplomatic efforts regarding IOJ&amp;K dispute have continued through his letters and telephonic conversations . However , the current situation in IOJ&amp;K is getting worse day by day and India is not taking it seriously at all . How do you comment on this ? ( Aijaz Ahmed , GNN ) <p> Answer : Pakistan remains deeply concerned over continued restrictions in IOJ&amp;K . Foreign Minister in his recent letters to the Presidents of UNSC and UNGA highlighted India 's illegal attempts seeking to change the demographic structure of IOJ&amp;K and urged them to play their role . Similarly , the matter was also raised in the telephonic conversations of the Foreign Minister with his counterparts . It is unfortunate that instead of taking tangible actions to improve the Human Rights situation in IOJ&amp;K , India is trying to take advantage of the shift in world attention towards COVID-19 . <p> Question : After President Donald Trump 's threat to retaliate , PM Modi removed ban on export of Hydroxychloroquine . Is there any chance to import Hydroxychloroquine in Pakistan from India ? ( Khalid Mehmood Khalid , ANI News Agency ) <p> Answer : The question pertains to Ministry of National Health Services . 
@@51629579 <h> Piety becomes perilous : congregation amidst Covid-19 <p> During these strange times , many have turned to religion to ask for an end to the spread of the coronavirus . However in most cases , it is reminiscent of the saying , " the road to hell is paved with good intentions . " Religious gatherings are attributing to rising numbers in many places in the world.The first religious group among which the virus spread was in South Korea . It all started with a 61-year-old lady , a regular at the Shincheonji Church of Jesus , the Temple of the Testimony in Daegu . <p> The lady in question had gotten into a minor traffic accident and had developed a headache the next day . She went to the hospital and despite also feeling other symptoms of the flu did not get tested , arguing that she did not travel so she is safe . In the time between her feeling sick and eventually being positively tested , she attended at least three church gatherings , exposing hundreds of people to the virus . She has since then been dubbed the super-spreader . While an official on the frontlines of the COVID-19 response in the country also tested positive for the virus , later admitting to being a follower of the same church . The situation became so severe that the church leader issued a public apology to the people . <p> Meanwhile , the first coronavirus death in India 's Punjab was of Baldev Singh , a respected member of the Sikh community who also held a job at the village gurdwara . He had returned to India after visiting Germany for two weeks via Italy on March 8th . He was cleared by the health checks at both the international and Indian airports and instead of going into self-quarantine , he had resumed life as normal . He started going to the gurdwara , attending to the local panchayat and even ended up serving devotees at a festival a day after Holi . Singh was asymptomatic for the most part and showed symptoms late , succumbing to the virus just ten days later . He was diagnosed posthumously . At least 934 of his direct contacts have been tracked down since then out of which at least 38 have been confirmed to have coronavirus so far , including his family . <p> The Tablighi Jamaat also did not sit idle while history was being written . A 16,000 strong congregation was held in Malaysia in mid-February , from where the participants went back to multiple countries . This resulted in an uptick in cases in Malaysia , while those infected with the coronavirus also travelled to Brunei and Thailand . Although there is no direct data to link the two yet , many in India are also blaming a Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi for soaring cases . The jamaat had also gathered at least 150,000 people outside Lahore in Pakistan for an annual gathering till they were sent home on March 12th . Many of the participants later tested positive , including two Palestinian men , who returned to Gaza and became the first two cases there . <p> Our neighbour Iran also failed to close the holy sites there in time leading to an outbreak in the city of Quom . The situation was further exacerbated by Nauroz celebrations , during which people openly flouted the lockdown and rules placed by the Iranian government . Pakistan also paid the price for the Iran not sufficiently locking down religious activities as seen by the situation at the Pakistan-Iran border . In addition , inside Pakistan , mosques are still being frequented while the federal government has announced that they will remain functioning during approaching Ramazan . The less than satisfactory management on the part of various governments , as they try to balance religious sensitivities and the blatant disregard of the severity of the virus by various followers of religion have added to the number of cases in any country where activities were not curbed . <p> An antithesis to this situation was presented by Saudi Arabia , where Mecca and Medina were closed to visitors , a step so unprecedented that even the 1918 flu pandemic did not shut the twin cities down . The land of the two holy mosques sealed its borders to foreigners , disinfected anything and everything in hope that it would defeat the virus in time for Hajj . Although , it can safely be presumed from the statement of Muhammad Saleh bin Tahir , the Saudi Hajj and Umrah Minister , telling Muslims to ' withhold ' the signing of any Hajj agreement that the postponement , which has occurred only 40 times since 629 AD , will see its 41st moment in the sun in 2020 . To put it in context , the last time Hajj was postponed was in 1798 . <p> Pope Francis of the Catholic Church in Rome , who initially opposed the church-ban ' , changed his mind in face of the devastating reality that is the coronavirus and allowed the church to be closed . He decided to stream his Sunday Angelus Sermon live from the safety of his home . Many priests , especially in Italy , which was hit the hardest , are now urging people to use the internet and popular social media sites as tools to love God through . <p> Italy also has the toughest restrictions on religious services and the government has imposed bans on not only church services but also baptisms and funerals . Priest in the presence of , at most , three family members say the final prayers for the departed soul . But what alternative ways could be taken ? Attending a funeral of one patient will lead to quarantining 70 attendees , which is exactly what panned out in Foggia , Italy . <p> All sorts of religious events banned in Slovakia , ban on holy water in Lithuania , closure of synagogues in Belgium , closed doors of the holy Kaaba and the suspension of collective prayers in all 90,000 mosques in Turkey indicate the very surreal times we are surviving in . The safe distance that we are rightly obliged to keep is threatened by prayer congregation and religious communion . It does not matter who gives the directive , an imam or priest or even the government , but it is the need of the almost apocalyptic time that religion is practiced privately instead of collectively , the world over . 
@@51634508 <p> Pope Francis on Sunday hosted around 1,500 poor and homeless people for lunch at the Vatican , decrying indifference to poverty as the Catholic Church marked its World Day of the Poor . <p> " My thoughts go to those who ... have promoted solidarity initiatives to give concrete hope to the most disadvantaged , " Pope Francis told a mass in Saint Peter 's Square ahead of the lunch . <p> " Recently I saw some statistics on poverty . They make you suffer -- the indifference of society towards the poor , " the pope said , thanking medical staff who were providing free health care to the poor at the Vatican . <p> He also criticised what he called " the frenzy of running , of achieving everything right now , anyone left behind is viewed as a nuisance . And considered disposable . " <p> " How many elderly , unborn , disabled and poor persons are considered useless . We go our way in haste , without worrying that gaps are increasing , that the greed of a few is adding to the poverty of many others . " <p> The pope then joined his 1,500 guests for lunch in the Vatican 's vast Paul VI Hall . <p> The menu consisted of lasagna , chicken nuggets with cream of mushrooms and potatoes , dessert , fruit and coffee . <p> " Thank you to the pope and thank you to the Vatican , because the Vatican helps so many poor people , and it also helps by providing medicine , this lunch of course , clothes , so many things , " said Oscar , a Lithuanian who has lived in Italy for 13 years . <p> " We do n't have good money because we work seven hours , eight hours , some people sometimes 10 hours for just 30 euros , so this is hard , " said Gambian migrant worker Lamin Jarra . <p> Dozens of volunteers helped bring the poor to the Vatican and serve the food , including Lorenzo Ferraro , who stressed the importance of openness towards " the most deprived , the weakest . " <p> " In a climate of general selfishness , the pope also remembers these people , " he said . <p> VATICAN CITY : Pope Francis on Thursday passed a landmark new measure to oblige those who know about sex abuse in the Catholic Church to report it to their superiors , in a move which could bring countless new cases to light . <p> It follows a series of clerical assault cases in countries ranging from Australia to Chile , Germany and the US . <p> Every diocese in the world will now be obliged to have a system for the reporting of abuse , under a new law published by the Vatican following a global clerical paedophilia scandal . <p> It is time to learn from the " bitter lessons of the past " , Francis said in the text of the legal decree , which comes into effect on June 1 . <p> The " Motu Proprio " , a legal document issued under the pope 's personal authority , declares that anyone who has knowledge of abuse , or suspects it , is " obliged to report it promptly " to the Church , using " easily accessible systems " . <p> Under the new measure , every diocese around the world is obliged by June 2020 to create a system for the reporting of sexual abuse by clerics , the use of child pornography and cover-ups of abuse . <p> The law could see the Vatican inundated with reports of abuse or cover-ups , as it applies retroactively , meaning those who know about old cases are obliged to flag them up as well . <p> The impact " likely will be felt most intensely outside the West , since places such as the US , Canada and some parts of Western Europe though , ironically , not the pope 's backyard in Italy , already have fairly robust reporting systems , " said Vatican expert John Allen , on the online religious newspaper Crux Now . <p> " The Motu Proprio shows Pope Francis expects swift and comprehensive progress , " commented Cardinal Daniel DiNardo , head of the Bishops ' Conference in the United States , where thousands have people have reported abuse . It will " empower the Church everywhere to bring predators to justice , no matter what rank they hold " , he said . <p> The document focuses particularly on the sexual or psychological abuse of children and vulnerable adults , but also targets sexual abuse and violence resulting from an abuse of authority -- such as the exploitation of nuns by priests . <p> " The new norms ... are exhaustive in scope , applying in some way to every ordained or vowed member of the 1.3 billion-person church , " Vatican watcher Joshua McElwee wrote in the National Catholic Reporter . <p> That raises the question as to how realistic it is for the Vatican to promise a response to reports within 30 days , particularly considering there are scores of cases currently backlogged , Allen said . Victims ' groups have long called for Francis to put in place concrete measures to tackle clerical child abuse , but they want more , including the immediate dismissal of any cleric found guilty of even a single act of abuse , or of covering it up . <p> VATICAN CITY : Pope Francis , in a dramatic gesture after an unprecedented retreat at the Vatican , knelt to kiss the feet of South Sudan 's previously warring leaders on Thursday as he urged them to not return to a civil war . <p> He appealed to President Salva Kiir , his former deputy turned rebel leader Riek Machar , and three other vice presidents to respect an armistice they signed and commit to forming a unity government next month . <p> " I am asking you as a brother to stay in peace . I am asking you with my heart , let us go forward . There will be many problems but they will not overcome us . Resolve your problems , " Francis said in improvised remarks . <p> The leaders appeared to be stunned as the 82-year-old pope , who suffers from chronic leg pain , was helped by aides as he knelt with difficulty to kiss the shoes of the two main opposing leaders and several other people in the room . <p> His appeal was made even more pressing as anxiety grew in South Sudan that Thursday 's coup in neighbouring Sudan might put at risk the fragile peace deal that ended South Sudan 's brutal five-year civil war . <p> The Vatican brought together South Sudanese leaders for 24 hours of prayer and preaching inside the pope 's residence in an attempt to heal bitter divisions before the country is due to set up a unity government . <p> " There will be struggles , disagreements among you but keep them within you , inside the office , so to speak , " Francis said in Italian as an aide translated into English . " But in front of the people , hold hands united . So , as simple citizens , you will become fathers of the nation . " <p> Sudan , which is predominantly Muslim , and the mainly Christian south fought for decades before South Sudan became independent in 2011 . South Sudan plunged into civil war two years later after Kiir , a Dinka , fired Machar , from the Nuer ethnic group , from the vice presidency . <p> About 400,000 people died , and more than a third of the country 's 12 million people were uprooted , sparking Africa 's worst refugee crisis since the 1994 Rwandan genocide . <p> The two sides signed a power-sharing deal in September calling on the main rival factions to assemble , screen and train their respective forces to create a national army before the formation of a unity government next month . <p> In his prepared address earlier on Thursday , Francis said South Sudan 's people were exhausted by war and the leaders had a duty to build their young nation in justice . He also repeated his wish to visit the country along with other religious leaders to solidify the peace . <p> Others who attended the retreat were the Archbishop of Canterbury , Justin Welby , who is the spiritual leader of the worldwide Anglican community , members of the South Sudan Council of Churches , and other Catholic and Presbyterian Church leaders from Africa . <p> RABAT , Morocco : Pope Francis said on Saturday the plight of migrants was " a wound that cries out to heaven " and could never be healed by physical barriers . <p> Francis , starting a two-day visit to Morocco , also backed Moroccan King Mohammed VI 's efforts to spread a form of Islam that promotes inter-religious dialogue and rejects violence in God 's name . <p> In recent months , migration has again risen to the fore of national political debates in a number of North African and European countries and the United States . <p> U.S. President Donald Trump has promised to fulfil his campaign pledge to build a wall along the border with Mexico and on Friday threatened to close the border next week if Mexico did not stop immigrants reaching the United States . <p> " The issue of migration will never be resolved by raising barriers , fomenting fear of others or denying assistance to those who legitimately aspire to a better life for themselves and their families , " Francis said at the welcoming ceremony . <p> " We know too that the consolidation of true peace comes through the pursuit of social justice , which is indispensable for correcting the economic imbalances and political unrest that have always had a major role in generating conflicts and threatening the whole of humanity , " he said . <p> Morocco has become a key departure point for African migrants trying to reach Europe after crackdowns that closed or limited routes elsewhere . Italy 's anti-immigrant interior minister has closed ports to rescue ships run by charity groups . <p> Francis , who has made the defence of migrants and refugees a key part of his preaching , said he was concerned about their " frequently grim fate " and receiving countries must acknowledge that migrants were forced to leave their homes because of poverty and political upheaval . <p> From the airport to the city centre , Francis , 82 , was driven in a white popemobile on a drizzly day as the 55-year-old king rode beside him standing up in a separate vehicle , a vintage black 1969 open-top Mercedes 600 Pullman . <p> In the afternoon , the pope spoke again of migration during a visit to a Church-run shelter . He called migration " a great and deep wound that continues to afflict our world at the beginning of this 21st century . A wound that cries out to heaven . " <p> He said migrants and refugees had rights and dignity " independent of their legal status " and the host communities should reject " all forms of discrimination and xenophobia " . <p> Francis and the king visited an institute the monarch founded to train imams and male and female preachers of Islam . <p> Morocco , which is almost entirely Muslim , has promoted itself as an oasis of religious tolerance in a region torn by militancy . It has offered training to Muslim preachers from Africa and Europe on what it describes as moderate Islam . <p> Francis , making the first papal visit to Morocco in 34 years , praised the monarch for providing " sound training to combat all forms of extremism , which so often lead to violence and terrorism , and which , in any event , constitute an offence against religion and against God himself " . <p> VATICAN CITY : Pope Francis has defrocked a former cardinal in a first for the Roman Catholic church over accusations American Theodore McCarrick sexually abused a teenager 50 years ago , a Vatican statement said Saturday . <p> McCarrick , 88 , who resigned from the Vatican 's College of Cardinals in July , is the first cardinal ever to be defrocked for sex abuse . <p> He was found guilty in January by a Vatican court for sexually abusing a teenager , a decision confirmed by the pope in February , with " no further recourse " , according to the statement . <p> It said McCarrick was guilty of " sins against the Sixth Commandment with minors and with adults , with the aggravating factor of the abuse of power " . <p> The announcement marks a spectacular fall from grace for the once influential cardinal and comes ahead of a Vatican conference from February 21-24 bringing together bishops from around the world to discuss protecting children within the Church <p> Sex abuse scandals around the globe , and most recently in the United States and Chile , have shaken the church , with Pope Francis promising a policy of " zero tolerance " even for high-ranking church members . <h> Sex with adult seminarians <p> McCarrick was known for having sex with adult seminarians before he was accused of sexually abusing at least one teenager . <p> Prosecutors in the US state of Pennsylvania last year found 300 priests were involved in child sexual abuse since the 1940s , crimes that were covered up by a string of bishops . <p> Prosecutors in half a dozen other US states have announced plans for similar investigations . <p> The pope accepted the resignations of several bishops in Chile last year after investigations revealed decades of sexual abuse by clergy in their dioceses . <p> In March 2015 , Pope Francis allowed Keith O'Brien to keep the title of cardinal after the former Bishop of Edinburgh and former leader of the Catholic church in Scotland resigned over allegations of inappropriate sexual behaviour towards priests in the 1980s . <p> The only previous case of a cardinal resigning came in 1927 , when Pope Pius XI accepted the resignation of French cardinal Lois Billot , who had himself renounced his status for political reasons . <p> Cardinals act as close papal advisors and can attend conclaves to elect new pontiffs if they are aged below 80 . <p> McCarrick had been one of the most prominent American cardinals active on the international stage . <p> Although officially retired , McCarrick had continued to travel abroad regularly , including on human rights issues . <p> McCarrick was ordained a priest in 1958 and rose through the ranks in the Archdiocese of New York before being installed as archbishop of Washington in 2001 , a post he held until 2006 . <p> The claims against him were made public in June by Cardinal Timothy Dolan , the current archbishop of New York . <p> Dolan said an independent forensic agency " thoroughly investigated " the allegation . <p> A review board that included jurists , law enforcement experts , parents , psychologists , a priest and a religious sister then " found the allegations credible and substantiated " and the Vatican ordered McCarrick to stop exercising his ministry . <p> At the time , he released a statement maintaining his innocence but added that he " fully cooperated " in the investigation . <p> Senior US church officials said they had received three allegations of McCarrick 's sexual misconduct with adults decades ago , two of which resulted in settlements . <p> The US Catholic website Crux quoted a man as accusing him of abuse in New York 's St Patrick 's Cathedral when he was a 16-year-old in the 1970s . <p> Other cardinals caught up in scandal include Australia 's top Catholic George Pell , number three in the Vatican . Pell faces prosecution in Australia for historical child sexual offences . <p> Pell and Chilean Cardinal Francisco Javier Errazuriz were both removed from the so-called C9 Council of Cardinals , an international advice body set up by Francis himself , the Vatican said in December . <p> Despite being removed from the C9 , Pell , 77 , remains in charge of Vatican finances , the third most powerful position in the Roman Catholic Church . <p> He has pleaded not guilty to the charges . <p> Defrocking is the most severe ecclesiastical punishment for a priest , who is reduced to the status of a lay person and no longer allowed to lead mass . <p> Pope Francis held a historic public mass for an estimated 170,000 Catholics at a stadium in the capital of the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday , capping the first ever papal visit to the Gulf , a region where Islam was born . <p> The pontiff waved at the enthusiastic crowd carrying yellow Vatican flags and banners as he rode in an open-top Popemobile into Zayed Sports City Stadium , where an altar with a large cross was set up for the unprecedented open-air service in a country that normally restricts worship to inside churches . <p> The UAE borders Saudi Arabia , the birthplace of Islam , but unlike its larger neighbour , which outlaws all non-Muslim places of worship , Abu Dhabi allows Christians among its large migrant workforce to practise their faith discreetly . <p> Francis , who has made outreach to Muslim communities a cornerstone of his papacy , wrapped up his historic three-day visit with the mass . <p> In a homily on Tuesday , he turned to the tens of thousands of migrant workers living in the Emirates . <p> " It is most certainly not easy for you to live far from home , missing the affection of your loved ones , and perhaps also feeling uncertainty about the future , " the pope said . <p> " But the Lord is faithful and does not abandon his people . " <p> Aboard the papal plane on his way back to Rome , he hailed the visit as a " step forward " in dialogue with Islam , a relationship that must still " ripen like fruit " . <h> More than 135,000 <p> Filipino and Indian Catholics among the UAE 's huge migrant workforce have warmly welcomed Pope Francis ' trip . <p> About one million Catholics live in the country , or about one in 10 of UAE residents . <p> Asian nationals make up some 65 per cent of the population and are crucial to all sectors in the oil-rich Gulf state , from construction to services and hotels . <p> VATICAN CITY : Pope Francis warned on Monday against a resurgence of nationalist and populist movements and termed it an ' international duty ' to defend refugees and migrants . <p> He also criticised countries that try to solve the migration crisis with unilateral or isolationist actions . <p> The pope , speaking to diplomats in an annual speech known informally as his " state of the world " address , suggested such movements and closed-door policies were turning the clock back 100 years to the dangerous period between the world wars . <p> Relationships within the international community " are experiencing a period of difficulty , with the resurgence of nationalistic tendencies , " he said , making dialogue between countries and hurting the most vulnerable members of society , including migrants . <h> Defending refugees and migrants an ' international duty ' <p> While migration has led to diffidence and unilateral actions by governments , particularly in Europe and North America , the international community has a duty to defend refugees and migrants , he said . <p> " I do not believe that partial solutions can exist for so universal an issue , " he said . <p> Francis praised the United Nations ' Global Compact on Migration , which set objectives for how the movement of people can be managed . The United States , Italy , Hungary and Poland are among nations that boycotted the meeting in Morocco last year . <p> In his hour-long speech , Francis several times mentioned the League of Nations , which was set up after World War One to promote peace but failed to stop the nationalist and populist movements that helped lead to World War Two . <p> " The reappearance of these impulses today is progressively weakening the multilateral system , " he told envoys from 183 countries in the speech , which touched on the situation in many countries . <h> Rise of populism across the world <p> Populist anti-immigrant parties made gains in some countries last year , including Italy , France , the Netherlands , Hungary , Brazil and Poland . <p> In the United States , a partial government shutdown entered its third week as President Donald Trump has pledged not to bend in his demand for a wall along the southern border with Mexico . <p> The pope again condemned the arms trade and possession of nuclear weapons , lamenting that past efforts at nuclear disarmament had given way to " the search for new and increasingly sophisticated and destructive weapons " . <p> He called for a more decisive commitment to combating global warming and for " rethinking our relationship with our planet " . <p> Calling sexual abuse of children " one of the plagues of our time " , he said a meeting of key bishops at the Vatican in February would aim to " shed full light on the facts and to alleviate the wounds caused by such crimes " . <p> VATICAN CITY : The Vatican expressed concern over the status of Jerusalem on Monday as Pope Francis and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas held their first meeting since the United States stirred international anxiety by moving its embassy there . The two embraced and kissed on the cheek as the pontiff welcomed Abbas to a library in the ... <p> VATICAN CITY : The Vatican expressed concern over the status of Jerusalem on Monday as Pope Francis and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas held their first meeting since the United States stirred international anxiety by moving its embassy there . <p> The two embraced and kissed on the cheek as the pontiff welcomed Abbas to a library in the Vatican 's Apostolic Palace for a private , 20-minute meeting . <p> " Particular attention was reserved for the status of Jerusalem , underlining the importance of recognizing and preserving its identity and the universal value of the holy City for the three Abrahamic religions , " a Vatican statement said , referring to Christianity , Judaism , and Islam . <p> US President Donald Trump outraged the Arab world last year when he reversed decades of policy by recognising Jerusalem as Israel 's capital and put Washington 's embassy there . It was opened in May . <p> Palestinians , with broad international backing , want East Jerusalem as the capital of a future independent state , while Israel views the whole city its " united and eternal " capital . <p> The Vatican expressed concern last year at Trump 's move , saying the city 's " status quo " should be respected . Francis has called for all to honor UN resolutions on the city . <p> The official Palestinian news agency WAFA said Abbas briefed the pope on " the implications of the US decision . " <p> As Abbas was leaving the library , he told the pope : " We are counting on you . " It was not clear what he was referring to . <p> The Vatican backs a two-state solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict , with both sides agreeing on the status of Jerusalem as part of the peace process . <p> The statement said Abbas and the pope also discussed efforts to reactivate the Israeli-Palestinian peace process and hoped for " a renewed commitment on the part of the international community to meet the legitimate aspirations of both peoples . " <p> They also urged an end to " extremism and fundamentalism " in the Middle East , and called for reconciliation among Palestinian factions . Abbas ' Fatah party is dominant in the West Bank , while Hamas controls Gaza . <p> VATICAN : Pope Francis said on Sunday he would not respond to explosive accusations by a former top Vatican official that the pontiff had covered up sexual abuse , saying dismissively that the document containing the allegations " speaks for itself " . Francis , talking to reporters aboard the plane returning to Rome from Dublin , said he would " not say ... <p> VATICAN : Pope Francis said on Sunday he would not respond to explosive accusations by a former top Vatican official that the pontiff had covered up sexual abuse , saying dismissively that the document containing the allegations " speaks for itself " . <p> Francis , talking to reporters aboard the plane returning to Rome from Dublin , said he would " not say one word " on the 11-page document , in which the former official says Francis should resign . The pontiff said journalists should read the document carefully and decide for themselves about its credibility . <p> The official accused the pope of having known of allegations of sex abuse by a prominent U.S. cardinal for years . The document by Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano , the former Vatican ambassador to Washington , was an unprecedented broadside against the pope by a Church insider . <p> " I read that statement this morning . I read it and I will say sincerely that I must say this , to you ( the reporter ) and all of you who are interested : read the document carefully and judge it for yourselves , " he said . <p> " I will not say one word on this . I think the statement speaks for itself and you have sufficient journalistic capacity to reach your own conclusions , " he said . <p> Vigano gave the bombshell statement to conservative Roman Catholic media outlets during the pope 's visit to Ireland , which was dominated by the Church 's sexual abuse in that country and others around the world . <p> He accused a long list of current and past Vatican and US Church officials of covering up the case of former Cardinal Theodore McCarrick , the retired archbishop of Washington D.C. <p> McCarrick , 88 , resigned last month in disgrace and was stripped of his title after allegations that he had abused a minor nearly 50 years ago and also forced adult male seminarians to share his be . 
@@51640940 <h> This year , Muslims around the world will not be able to experience the communal traditions of Ramadan due to lockdown limitations <p> The Islamic holy month of Ramadan has yet to begin as the two billion Muslims majority of the world almost find themselves under some sort of lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> For Muslims , Ramadan is usually a time of community coming together in communal Taraweeh prayers and iftar meals to break their daily fast at sunset . For this , mosques play a vital role holding Taraweeh prayers and providing public iftars to bring the community together and offer a vital source of food for the poor in society . <h> Published Earlier : <p> But this year , Muslims around the world will not be able to experience the communal traditions of Ramadan due to lockdown limitations . <p> While Muslims are still expected to fast between sunrise and sunset , religious authorities in key Islamic countries including Saudi Arabia and UAE have ordered that prayers be done at home to contain the virus which can be spread via communal gatherings in mosques . <p> However , other countries such as Pakistan are keeping mosques open -- with critics saying this could put public health in risk and undermine efforts to tackle coronavirus . <p> Here we have a country-by-country guide to how Muslims are able to celebrate Ramadan . <h> Ramadan under COVID-19 lockdown in the Arabian Gulf <h> Bahrain <p> Unlike the rest of its Gulf neighbors , Bahrain will host the communal Taraweeh prayers in its Al-Fateh Grand Mosque . <p> The prayers however will only involve the imam and five people at a time under social distancing rules . The prayers will likely be shown on television , according to the sources familiar with the matter . <p> Elsewhere in the kingdom , mosques and prayer rooms are still suspended following a March 23 lockdown announcement . <h> Kuwait <p> Kuwait has made the extension in lockdown in its already relatively strict curfew to last until the end of May including the whole of Ramadan . <p> The country shut mosques and appeal people to pray at home on March 13 and has yet to reopen facilities . <h> Oman <p> Oman has already announced a ban on mass gatherings including prayers for Ramadan as it experiences a rise in COVID-19 cases . <p> " The committee stresses the importance of avoiding all gatherings during the Holy Month of Ramadan , " said Oman 's Supreme Committee for dealing with COVID-19 in a statement on Tuesday . <p> " The committee affirms that the closure of mosques -- even for Taraweeh prayers -- will continue , except for the call to prayer ( Azaan ) , " read the statement . <h> Qatar <p> Qatar has also shut mosques and suspended cummunal prayers , with no notice of them reopening for Ramadan . <p> " Ramadan gatherings , such as iftar in mosques , tents or Muslim cummunal gatherings and social , cultural , sports and other group activities are strictly prohibited , " read the statement . <h> Saudi Arabia <p> Saudia Arabia has imposed strict lockdown measures for its citizens as the COVID-19 cases continue to rise . The measures include suspension of all prayers at mosques . <p> This year the kingdom is not hosting communal Taraweeh prayers as it was asked to be held at home , according to an announcement by the Kingdom 's Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdulaziz al-Sheikh . <p> He added that if the pandemic continues throughout Ramadan , then communal Eid al-Fitr prayers at the end of the month should also be held at home . <p> Earlier , the Kingdom had suspended Umrah so pilgrims will be unable to make the pilgrimage during Ramadan this year . <p> The Council of Scholars has also urged Muslims across the world to pray at home if they live in countries where lockdowns have been imposed . <h> United Arab Emirates <p> United Arab Emirates has also suggested that prayers can be done at home during Ramadan , as mosques currently remain shut . <p> The Emirates Fatwa Council , a body which issues fatwas or religious rulings , urged on Monday for Muslims to pray at home and ruled that the Taraweeh prayer could be done at home too . <p> The ruling reiterated an earlier ruling from the Emirate of Dubai 's Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department advised Muslims to hold Taraweeh prayers at home . <p> The council also said that COVID-19 patients and frontline medical workers were exempt from fasting . <h> Ramadan under COVID-19 , In Middle East and North Africa <h> Algeria <p> Algeria closed its mosque on March 17 to contain coronavirus and are set to remain shut for Ramadan . <p> " Quran recitations and religious speeches will be broadcast from minarets during Ramadan " , according to the head of Algeria 's Fatwa Committee Muhammad Adir Mashnan . <h> Egypt <p> Egypt was the first Muslim country that was reported to be suspending communal iftars and prayers during Ramadan . <p> The country announced on April 7 that it would be suspending all Ramadan activities including group iftars due to the pandemic . <p> On Saturday , Egypt 's top Sunni Muslim authority Al-Azhar confirmed that Muslims would still be expected to fast during the holy month of Ramadan . <h> Iran <p> Iran being one of the worst-hit countries by the pandemic in the Middle East , has been gradually reopening major businesses in the recent weeks as the economy struggles under COVI-19 and US sanctions . <p> However , mosques remain closed across the country , with Friday prayers canceled . <h> Iraq <p> Iraq has lifted the curfew imposed on March 15 ahead of Ramadan . New measures will allow movement inside Baghdad during the daytime hours of 6 a.m. until 7 p.m. and some shops to reopen . <p> However , it is unclear whether authorities will tolerate mass gatherings for Ramadan . <h> Jordan <p> Jordan will also ban mosque prayers during the Ramadan according to a government minister on April 14 . The kingdom has enforced a strict lockdown in the capital Amman , arresting people who leave their homes . <h> Libya <p> Libya remains in a state of conflict which is setting the country up for a disastrous coronavirus outbreak , experts and international organisations said . <p> Control of the country is split between the UN-recognized Government of National Accord ( GNA ) supported by a variety of militias and the Benghazi-based Libyan National Army led by Gen. Khalifa Haftar . <p> The LNA announced a curfew in the region it controls on March 18 . The GNA did likewise on March 22 . It is unclear whether mosques are open in either of the curfews . <h> Lebanon <p> Lebanon is under a state lockdown with mosques across the country currently closed . <p> However , footage has emerged from the northern city of Tripoli showing Muslims continuing to congregate for Friday prayers despite the restrictions on mass gatherings . <h> Morocco <p> Morocco , as part of its lockdown measures imposed on March 20 closed all mosques . The government has extended those measures until May 20 , covering most of Ramadan . <h> Palestine <p> Jerusalem 's Al- Aqsa mosque compound will be closed to Muslim worshippers throughout Ramadan , announced the Jordan-appointed council that oversees Islam 's third-holiest site on Thursday . <p> The decision extends a ban on Islamic prayers at the holy compound , known to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary that has been in effect since March 23 . <p> The Grand Mufti of Jerusalem and the Palestinian Territories Muhammad Hussein has also advised against the public sighting of the crescent moon , which is used to estimate the start of Ramadan . <p> In the Gaza Strip , Hamas shut down all mosques for two weeks . <h> Syria <p> The Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad in Damascus has announced that mosques will remain closed for communal prayers until at least May 2 . <p> Syria is still in a state of war , with areas including parts of the northwestern Idlib province controlled by anti-government opposition forces . <h> Tunisia <p> Tunisia also suspended prayers and closed mosques in mid March . They have not been reopened ahead of Ramadan . <h> Turkey <p> Turkey had suspended mass prayers in mosques on March 16 , when the country only had 18 coronavirus cases . <p> Last week , the Turkey 's senior religious body confirmed that mosques will remain closed for Taraweeh prayers and other communal prayers during Ramadan . <p> The religious body also called on Muslims to avoid hosting large communal iftar meals and practice social distancing . <h> Ramadan under COVID-19 in the rest of the world <h> Bangladesh <p> Bangladesh has a population of about 168 million people , around 80 percent of the people in the country are Muslim and have been under a state of nationwide lockdown since March 26 . <p> The prime minister has called on Bangladeshis to pray at home during Ramadan , but the order was opposed from country 's clerics who have called on Muslims to turn out in their masses for daily prayers . <p> Last week , tens of thousands of people opposed the lockdown to attend the funeral of a top Islamic preacher . <p> A month before , at least 25,000 people attended a Muslim prayer meeting in a field in the southern city of Raipur to chant " healing verses " to rid the country of the deadly virus . <h> India <p> India has around 15 percent of people being Muslim , the country is home to 201 million Muslims -- making it the country with the second-largest Muslim population in the world . <p> The Indian government has imposed a strict nationwide lockdown , although some states slightly eased restrictions on Monday . <p> On Thursday , Islamic scholars in India appealed to Muslims to remain home when praying and follow the nationwide lockdown . <p> The country had previously experienced controversy when Muslims were accused of spreading the virus due to a religious congregation in a mosque in New Delhi in early March , despite members other faiths also congregating in India during March . <h> Indonesia <p> Indonesia is the world 's largest Muslim-majority country , home to an estimated 229 million Muslims . <p> On Tuesday , the country banned its traditional annual exodus -- known as " mudik " -- when millions of Muslims leave cities at the end of Ramadan to visit their families in the countryside . <p> Last year , about 19.5 million people in the archipelago of more than 260 million people made the journey , the government says , and President Joko Widodo added that 7 percent of Indonesians had already set out this year . In a study last week , researchers at the University of Indonesia 's public health faculty warned that if the exodus home were permitted , it could lead to a million infections by July on the most populous island of Java , home to Jakarta . <p> President Widodo had resisted pressure to impose a lockdown until recently , when a limited shutdown was imposed on the capital Jakarta in early April , with the measures including limits on religious events . <p> Indonesian Ministry of Religious Affairs has also issued guidelines that Taraweeh prayers and Quran recitations should be performed at home , according to reports . Public Eid prayers have also been canceled . <h> France <p> France has shut all 2,800 mosques and prayer rooms in the country since March 15 . The country is home to Europe 's largest Muslim minority population , <p> " During Ramadan , Taraweeh ( night prayers ) will be suspended and all prayers will be performed at home , " said Moussaoui Moussaoui , president of the French Council of Muslim Faith ( CFCM ) , as quoted in Arab News . <p> " We called on imams to use all means of communication at their disposal to connect with people , so some imams have recorded sermons and prayers and uploaded them online , " he added . <h> Nigeria <p> Nigeria is home to Africa 's largest Muslim population -- has issued guide for Muslims to avoid social and religious gatherings during Ramadan . <p> The country has banned large gatherings amid the threat of coronavirus . <p> The country 's senior Islamic body , the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs , has announced that Taraweeh prayers in mosques should be suspended for Ramadan due to COVID-19 . <p> The decision of prayers suspension , posted on the organization 's website and signed by director Alh . Ysuf Nwoha , cited the closure of mosques in Saudi Arabia in its reasoning . <h> Pakistan <p> Pakistan , unlike most other Muslim countries , has lifted restrictions on congregational prayers at mosques ahead of Ramadan . <p> The South Asian nation , the second most populous Muslim country in the world , imposed the restrictions less than a month ago , allowing only three to five people at mosques for prayers . <p> Later , after a meeting between President Arif Alvi and religious leaders , it was announced that the restrictions were lifted , meaning Muslims can pray at mosques during Ramadan . <p> Anyone visiting or praying at a mosque is required to wear a face mask and maintain a two-meter distance from each other , contrary to the usual practice of praying shoulder-to-shoulder . <p> The government had been under pressure to reverse the congregation restrictions , clashes in this regards between worshippers and police had been reported in Karachi . <h> United Kingdom <p> UK government has announced all places of worship including mosques must be close under its lockdown in late March . <p> On Friday , one of the country 's leading Muslim figures said that mosques would remain closed during Ramadan unless the lockdown would be lifted . <p> " It would be deemed extremely irresponsible to congregate for Taraweeh prayers or hold religious gatherings during this Ramadan in any mosque or houses with people who are not members of the immediate household , " said Qari Asim , the chair of the Mosques and Imams National Advisory Board told the Guardian . <h> United States of America <p> The rules for lockdowns and religious gatherings vary state by state in the US , which has the highest number of coronavirus cases and deaths in the world . <p> In the US , there are around 3.5 million Muslims -- around 1 percent of the population . <p> The Islamic Society of North America and other Muslim groups have called for prayers and gatherings to be suspended during Ramadan . <p> US President Donald Trump caused controversy last week after he suggested that officials enforcing lockdown measures would treat Muslims less severely than Christians . <p> " I would say that there could be a difference and we 'll have to see what will happen . Because I 've seen a great disparity in this country , " he said in a press conference , adding " they go after Christian churches but they do n't tend to go after mosques . " <p> States including Kansas and Kentucky imposed restrictions on religious gatherings during Easter , prompting a criticism from some who accused governors of imposing on their constitutional right to worship freely . 
@@51642954 <p> SEOUL : North Korea 's chief negotiator called the South Korean government " ignorant and incompetent " on Thursday , denounced US-South Korean air combat drills and threatened to halt all talks with the South unless its demands are met . The comments by Ri Son Gwon , chairman of North Korea 's Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the country , were the ... <p> SEOUL : North Korea 's chief negotiator called the South Korean government " ignorant and incompetent " on Thursday , denounced US-South Korean air combat drills and threatened to halt all talks with the South unless its demands are met . <p> The comments by Ri Son Gwon , chairman of North Korea 's Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the country , were the latest in a string of inflammatory statements marking a drastic change in tone after months of easing tension with plans for denuclearisation and a summit scheduled with the United States . <p> Ri criticized the South for participating in the drills , as well as for allowing " human scum " to speak at its National Assembly , the North 's KCNA news agency said in a statement . <p> " Unless the serious situation which led to the suspension of the north-south high-level talks is settled , it will never be easy to sit face to face again with the present regime of South Korea , " the statement said . <p> It did not elaborate . <p> KCNA , in its English-language service , deliberately uses lower-case " north " and " south " to show that it only recognises one undivided Korea . <p> North Korea on Wednesday said it might not attend the June 12 summit between leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump in Singapore if the United States continued to demand it unilaterally abandon its nuclear arsenal , which it has developed in defiance of U.N . Security Council resolutions to counter perceived US hostility . <p> A South Korean presidential Blue House official said the South intends to more actively perform " the role of a mediator " between the United States and North Korea , but that goal has been cast into doubt by Ri 's comments . <p> " On this opportunity , the present South Korean authorities have been clearly proven to be an ignorant and incompetent group devoid of the elementary sense of the present situation , " Ri 's statement said . <p> The statement did not identify the " human scum " by name , but Thae Yong Ho , a former North Korean diplomat to Britain who defected to the South in 2016 , held a press conference on Monday at the South Korean National Assembly for his publication of his memoir . <p> In his memoir , " Password from the Third Floor " , Thae describes North Korean leader Kim as " impatient , impulsive and violent " . <h> SUMMIT IN DOUBT <p> South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha told parliament that North Korea and the United States had differences of views over how to achieve denuclearisation . Trump acknowledged on Wednesday it was unclear if the summit would go ahead . <p> " It is true that there are differences of opinion between the North and the United States on methods to accomplish denuclearisation , " Kang told lawmakers , according to Yonhap News Agency . <p> Trump will host South Korean President Moon Jae-in at the White House on May 22 . <p> The Blue House intends to " sufficiently convey ( to the United States ) what we 've discerned about North Korea 's position and attitude ... and sufficiently convey the United States ' position to North Korea " , thereby helping to bridge the gap , the official said . <p> Japan 's Asahi newspaper reported that the United States had demanded North Korea ship some nuclear warheads , an intercontinental ballistic missile and other nuclear material overseas within six months . <p> The newspaper , citing several sources familiar with North Korea , said US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo appeared to have told the North Korean leader when they met this month that Pyongyang might be removed from a list of state sponsors of terrorism if it complied . <p> The Asahi also reported that if North Korea agreed to complete , verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation at the Singapore summit , Washington was considering giving guarantees for Kim 's regime . <p> China 's top diplomat , Wang Yi , said the measures North Korea has taken to ease tension should be acknowledged , and all other parties , especially the United States , should cherish the opportunity for peace . <p> Cancellation of the summit , the first between US and North Korean leaders , would deal a major blow to what could be the biggest diplomatic achievement of Trump 's presidency . <p> This comes at a time his withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal has drawn criticism internationally and moving the US embassy in Israel to Jerusalem has fueled deadly violence on the Israel-Gaza border . <p> North Korea defends its nuclear and missile programs as a deterrent against perceived aggression by the United States , which keeps 28,500 troops in South Korea , a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean War , which ended in a truce , not a peace treaty . <p> The North has long said it is open to eventually giving up its nuclear arsenal if the United States withdraws its troops from South Korea and ends its " nuclear umbrella " alliance with Seoul . <p> North Korea said it was pulling out of the talks with South Korea after denouncing US-South Korean " Max Thunder " air combat drills , which it said involved US stealth fighters , B-52 bombers and " nuclear assets " . <p> Speaking to reporters in Brussels on Wednesday , U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said : " I hope that in the end common sense will prevail , and the summit will take place and it will be successful . " 
@@51652076 <p> ISLAMABAD : The Adviser to PM on Foreign Affairs , Sartaj Aziz has said that Israeli aggression on Gaza has no justification , while he also stressed for immediate measures for a truce , ARY News reported . <p> ISLAMABAD : The Federal Interior Minister , Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan has telephoned the ameer of Jamat e Islami ( JI ) , Siraj ul Haq and exchanged views with him on the current political scenario of the country , ARY News reported . <p> ISLAMABAD : Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf ( PTI ) has refused to avail the offer of the Opposition Leader , Syed Khursheed Shah , for playing the role of a mediator between the government and the chairman PTI , Imran Khan , ARY News reported . <p> ISLAMABAD : Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf ( PTI ) chairman , Imran Khan has made it clear to the Federal Interior Minister , Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan that the long march will take place at all cost and PTI is not going to back out from it , ARY News ... <p> ISLAMABAD : The Prime Minister of Pakistan , Nawaz Sharif said Monday that Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz ( PMLN ) will not become part of the no-confidence move against the Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf ( PTI ) led Khyber Pakhtunkhwa ( KP ) Government .... <p> KARACHI : Pakistan Peoples Party ( PPP ) has decided to hold consultation with other opposition parties , on the current political situation of the country , while the former President and the PPP patron in-chief , Asif Ali Zardari has also made ... <p> ISLAMABAD : Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf ( PTI ) leader , Makhdoom Javed Hashmi said on Monday he will face the first bullet fired at the protesters , if a civil martial law is imposed in case of a march , while , Pakistan Peoples Party ( PPP ) ... 
