@@51585575 <h> UN begins home food drops for Gaza 's needy to stem virus <p> In Gaza , the U.N . Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees has for decades provided staples like flour , rice , oil and canned foods to roughly half of the territory 's 2 million people . ( File Photo by KMo Foto/Flickr , CC BY 2.0 ) <p> GAZA , Palestinian Territory -- A U.N . aid agency Tuesday began delivering food to the homes of impoverished Palestinians instead of making them pick up such parcels at crowded distribution centres -- part of an attempt to prevent a mass outbreak of the new coronavirus in the densely populated Gaza Strip . <p> As the virus continued to spread across the Middle East , Iran , the hardest-hit country in the region , reported 141 new deaths , pushing the death toll closer to 3,000 people . <p> In Israel , defence officials said they had converted a missile-production plant into an assembly line for much-needed breathing machines . Saudi Arabia , meanwhile , said it would pay medical expenses for anyone infected with the virus . <p> In Gaza , the U.N . Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees has for decades provided staples like flour , rice , oil and canned foods to roughly half of the territory 's 2 million people . Under the old system , those eligible lined up at crowded distribution centres four times a year to pick up their aid parcels . Starting on Tuesday , the agency began making home deliveries . <p> " We assessed that tens of thousands of people will pour into the food distribution centres and this is very dangerous , " said Adnan Abu Hasna , the agency 's spokesman in Gaza . <p> Some 4,000 deliveries were made Tuesday , with an estimated 70,000 others to be made over the next three weeks , he said . Drivers on three-wheel motorcycles dropped off the food , calling people out of their homes , confirming their identities and leaving the bags outside . The agency instructed people to stay 2 metres ( about 6 feet ) from the delivery men to minimize the risk of infection . <p> " This makes it easy for us , " said Manal Ziara , a resident of Shati refugee camp in west Gaza City . " The old mechanism causes crowding and touching that help the virus spread . " <p> Only 10 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Gaza , whose borders have been largely sealed by Israel and Egypt since the Islamic militant group Hamas seized the territory in 2007 . <p> However , there 's only a small number of available tests . International officials fear the virus could quickly spread and overwhelm an already gutted health system . <p> For most people , the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms , such as fever and cough . But for others , especially older adults and people with existing health problems , the virus can cause severe symptoms like pneumonia or death . <p> Particularly hard hit has been Iran , home to 80 million people . Iran 's state TV reported 141 new deaths Tuesday , pushing the death toll to 2,898 . Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said there are now 44,606 confirmed cases , including 3,703 in critical condition . <p> In Saudi Arabia , King Salman said the government will pay for the treatment of all coronavirus patients , including visitors and foreign residents . Saudi Arabia has more than 1,500 confirmed cases of the virus and eight recorded deaths . It has sealed off three major cities and imposed a nighttime curfew across the country , as well as suspended flights and the yearlong Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca . <p> In Israel , the Defence Ministry said it had overseen the conversion of a missile-production facility into an assembly line for ventilators . The line , set up at a facility belonging to state-owned Israel Aerospace Industries , will produce ventilators made by Israeli company Inovytec . It produced its first 30 machines on Tuesday . <p> The Israeli military , meanwhile , announced that its chief of staff , Lt. Gen. Aviv Kochavi , had entered quarantine after learning that he attended a meeting last week with an officer who was infected . It said Kochavi , who has no symptoms , would remain in isolation until the weekend . <p> The army also said roughly 600 troops were being deployed to assist Israeli police in enforcing tight restrictions on movement Israel has recorded over 4,800 cases , with 17 deaths . <p> In Jerusalem 's Old City , workers sanitized the Western Wall , the holiest site where Jews can pray , to protect those who visit the site . <p> With the Passover holiday approaching next week , prayer notes tucked between the wall 's stones were removed using gloves and disposable wooden tools . The notes , which are removed twice a year , were collected in special bags and will be buried with other sacred papers . 
@@51590204 <h> You are here <h> A Palestinian woman talks about dealing with COVID-19 in Gaza <p> The rabble podcast network offers an alternative take on politics , entertainment , society , stories , community and life in general . All opinions belong to the podcaster ; however , podcasters are expected to adhere to our guidelines . We welcome new podcasters -- contact us for details . <p> Gaza is only 365 square kilometres and home to almost two million Palestinians . It 's been under a comprehensive Israeli land and sea blockade for 13 years . Israeli military assaults in 2008-2009 , 2012 and 2014 have laid waste to much of its infrastructure . <p> Poor sanitation , lack of clean water , poverty , unemployment and an acute shortage of hospital beds and equipment are a perfect storm for disease transmission . <p> The people of the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories -- under permanent military rule and denied the most basic civil and political rights -- are particularly ill-equipped to protect themselves . <p> More people are reading rabble.ca than ever and unlike many news organizations , we have never put up a paywall -- at rabble we 've always believed in making our reporting and analysis free to all , while striving to make it sustainable as well . Media is n't free to produce . rabble 's total budget is likely less than what big corporate media spend on photocopying ( we kid you not ! ) and we do not have any major foundation , sponsor or angel investor . Our main supporters are people and organizations -- like you . This is why we need your help . You are what keep us sustainable . <p> rabble.ca has staked its existence on you . We live or die on community support -- your support ! We get hundreds of thousands of visitors and we believe in them . We believe in you . We believe people will put in what they can for the greater good . We call that sustainable . <p> So what is the easy answer for us ? Depend on a community of visitors who care passionately about media that amplifies the voices of people struggling for change and justice . It really is that simple . When the people who visit rabble care enough to contribute a bit then it works for everyone . <p> And so we 're asking you if you could make a donation , right now , to help us carry forward on our mission . Make a donation today . 
@@51590843 <p> It can be sorted by total cases , new cases , total deaths , new deaths , total recovered , active cases , critical cases and total cases per million , <p> Right now per million is <p> Canada 21 <p> USA 35 <p> UK 48 <p> Italy 679 <p> China 56 <p> It arrived in Canada later so we may catch up , hopefully not to Italy . <p> Deaths : Canada , 10 USA 171 <p> USA is roughly 9 times that of Canada so if we were even Canada would have 90 deaths . We may well catch up to the US but if the Canadian system holds up better Americans are going to be pissed . <p> Missing in the above is the number tested as the number of cases is a function of the number tested . So percentage of cases of the number tested gives a better idea of the outbreak than comparing cases by pop between countries with different depths of testing . <p> " Here 's a guide to some of the most talked about efforts to treat or prevent coronavirus infection , with details on the science , history and timline for each endeavor . We 're looking at novel medicines , not repurposed drugs . ( For more on some of the efforts to repurpose drugs , read this ... ) <p> " ... As reported on Tuesday , the SKAWKBOX had sent repeated enquiries to the Department of Health over a period of days , asking whether a Cuban drug used by China in its dramatic reduction of the death rate of the COVID-19 coronavirus was being used to treat patients in the UK - and if not , what steps the government was taking to obtain it . <p> Interferon Alfa-2b is part of a treatment regime that has seen China reduce coronavirus mortality to just 0.4% . It works by disrupting a virus 's replication inside cells , preventing the complications that can kill sufferers and reducing the need for intensive care unit treatment - and the drug is already licensed for use in the UK ... " <p> Given the extreme demonstrated subservience and fear of Trudeau/Freeland et al to upset Washington , by using a Cuban ' commie ' medicine instead of a western big pharma corporate concoction , there is unfortunately faint hope that this apparently cheap and effective ' miracle drug ' will be used here . We will likely have to wait until something expensive and American comes along . <p> Nationwide , new cases have dropped slightly from May 17 . I know it 's too soon , but are we starting to turn the corner ? <p> Unfortunatley the issue is mostly likely that Ontario test results are delayed by 4-6 days right now . When these catch up you will find it a different story . The material for test kits is in short supply , tests are being rationed and results are coming extremely slowly . <p> No -- we are unfortunately a long way from turnign the corner . <p> What is happening is that governments of all parties are taking this seriously and governments in Canada seem to be doing mostly a decent job now after delays at the start . I think there is a sense across party lines that the population wants , needs , expects governments to rise to this . <p> Our system is over-burdened but there is a sense of increased awareness of the need to be careful and to support each other . <p> Another drastic drop for new cases today nationwide , with no new cases in Manitoba reported at this time . <p> This post is quite scary , but I still hope that these numbers are actually showing good news . <p> We are nowhere near the end of this . Trying to get through to a hot line for information on the virus and testing is an accomplishment . When you try in BC you get a automatic message to go a website because it is so busy . If you click a characteristic of the disease , it refers you back to the phone number that just told you to phone . My next door neighbour is an emergency room doctor who that most hospital staff do not only do they not have enough personal protective equipment . Furthermore , they are wondering they are only testing those who are highly likely to test positive because they are quite sick since they are in danger of running out of swabs to do the test . I have heard of similar problems in getting through to provincial hotlines in Ontario and New Brunswick . <p> In other words , the number of people tested every day is nowhere near the number of the number of people who have the virus and using these numbers as an indication of when the virus peaks is foolish . <p> Governor Newsom of California has he expects 27 million people ( out of California 's 40 million ) to become infected and therefore is ordering the entire state population to stay home in the United States ' strictest lockdown . <p> The order takes effect immediately and remains in place " until further notice . " Californians are not allowed to leave home except for essential purposes . They are allowed to purchase groceries , prescriptions and health care , as well as commute to jobs deemed essential . <p> The governor 's order comes with misdemeanor penalties for anyone who violates the restrictions , though he said he believes social pressure will keep people home rather than law enforcement . <p> " There 's a social contract here , " Newsom said . " People , I think , recognize the need to do more and meet his moment . " <p> " I do n't know what you 're thinking . ' The head of a visiting Chinese Red Cross delegation helping Italy respond to the coronavirus crisis says the country is not doing enough to contain the virus ( and vid ) <p> Nationwide , new cases have dropped slightly from May 17 . I know it 's too soon , but are we starting to turn the corner ? <p> Unfortunatley the issue is mostly likely that Ontario test results are delayed by 4-6 days right now . When these catch up you will find it a different story . The material for test kits is in short supply , tests are being rationed and results are coming extremely slowly . <p> No -- we are unfortunately a long way from turnign the corner . <p> What is happening is that governments of all parties are taking this seriously and governments in Canada seem to be doing mostly a decent job now after delays at the start . I think there is a sense across party lines that the population wants , needs , expects governments to rise to this . <p> Our system is over-burdened but there is a sense of increased awareness of the need to be careful and to support each other . <p> Another drastic drop for new cases today nationwide , with no new cases in Manitoba reported at this time . <p> This post is quite scary , but I still hope that these numbers are actually showing good news . <p> We are nowhere near the end of this . Trying to get through to a hot line for information on the virus and testing is an accomplishment . When you try in BC you get a automatic message to go a website because it is so busy . If you click a characteristic of the disease , it refers you back to the phone number that just told you to phone . My next door neighbour is an emergency room doctor who that most hospital staff do not only do they not have enough personal protective equipment . Furthermore , they are wondering they are only testing those who are highly likely to test positive because they are quite sick since they are in danger of running out of swabs to do the test . I have heard of similar problems in getting through to provincial hotlines in Ontario and New Brunswick . <p> In other words , the number of people tested every day is nowhere near the number of the number of people who have the virus and using these numbers as an indication of when the virus peaks is foolish . <p> I 'm sorry , but continuing the way things are now over the long term is not in any way realistic . People 's lives have been upended , and they 're not going to respond well to being told to stay home and not go out for months on end . There are already reports of people disobeying the quarantine in Italy . Also , with people stuck at home , we are very likely to see a spike in problems like depression , domestic violence , and suicide . Surely there must be a way to strike a middle ground where we can identify and stop these threats without shutting everything down every time they come up ? <p> Missing in the above is the number tested as the number of cases is a function of the number tested . So percentage of cases of the number tested gives a better idea of the outbreak than comparing cases by pop between countries with different depths of testing . <p> DR . MICHELE BARRY : Yeah . Well , that is important . Climate change , deforestation and changing ecology is crucial for how we have animal and human ecology change . For instance , we saw the Zika outbreak happen several years ago in northeast Brazil . There 's been a lot of interesting discussion how deforestation may have played a role in that , and higher temperatures may have played a role in changing vectors , mosquito vectors in that role . Mosquitoes play no role in SARS , do n't worry . But it 's a very important question that I think , when this all quiets down -- we 're sort of in the thick of this epidemic -- I think we need to pay more attention to this concept of what I 'm calling human and planetary health . We 're actually trying to build a new center for human and planetary health at Stanford . We 're working on a new postdoctoral fellowship for scientists to actually study this human ecology change . <p> quote : <p> DR . MICHELE BARRY : Oh , Iran . Iran was the perfect storm of -- and let 's talk a little bit about that also , but it was the perfect storm of religion and politics and public health . And this had to do with the fact -- because it 's kind of an interesting -- why would you think Iran -- and I do n't know -- I have a slide with the curves , if that could come up , of how fast that curve went up . And you might wonder why it is that Iran sort of exploded . Well , it had to do with the fact that they have a very holy shrine in the town of Qom . And what happened , according to my Iranian colleagues that I 've been talking to , is that there was a group of 700 Chinese pilgrims that were there from the Hubei province . And part of how one gives homage to this shrine is by kissing it or licking it . So you can imagine how that was a very easy way to immediately disseminate it . My understanding from my Iranian colleagues also , it 's been very hard to actually even barricade this shrine off currently , even in the midst of this epidemic . And we 've seen how religion has also played a role in South Korea . The earliest cluster was in a church , where you have large gatherings of people . And even in New York City -- and please correct me , but I 've been following your epidemic , as well -- that there 's been a real problem in the early Orthodox Jewish population , where that outbreak in the Hasidic population has occurred . <p> quote : <p> DR . MICHELE BARRY : Amy , this is not the only coronavirus we 're going to see . Unless we pay attention -- I 'm really going to come down hard on this -- on this concept of one health , keeping an eye on the intersection of our animals , our environment and our human health , are we going to get ahead of the ball for epidemics . Because this is not the big one . I mean , we think we 're living in the big one . The big one is really a pandemic flu , which is airborne and not droplet-borne . <p> " Let 's get serious . Test , test test . If we do n't test we do n't know who 's got the virus . We need global testing to be ramped up . We are in a pandemic that ca n't be stopped , but it can be massively slowed down until we have a vaccine ... I suspect we wo n't have a vaccine until a year from now ... " <p> I think the reason is in part the desire to act moderately . Problem is the virus is moving too quickly . Each action the governments wait for it to be justified ( not an over reaction ) only to find that justification comes with it being already too late . The is where they should have been using a safety first principle risking an over reaction to get ahead of the virus . Very , very few governments have responded in this way . <p> " Let 's get serious . Test , test test . If we do n't test we do n't know who 's got the virus . We need global testing to be ramped up . We are in a pandemic that ca n't be stopped , but it can be massively slowed down until we have a vaccine ... I suspect we wo n't have a vaccine until a year from now ... " <p> The problem is the capacity to test is still being built - we are all short of swabs and reactive agents . This is a problem given the truth of the above quote . <p> I 'm sorry , but continuing the way things are now over the long term is not in any way realistic . People 's lives have been upended , and they 're not going to respond well to being told to stay home and not go out for months on end . There are already reports of people disobeying the quarantine in Italy . Also , with people stuck at home , we are very likely to see a spike in problems like depression , domestic violence , and suicide . Surely there must be a way to strike a middle ground where we can identify and stop these threats without shutting everything down every time they come up ? <p> Unfortunately there is no middle ground -- despite the truth of much of what you are saying here . <p> what we are doing now is not sustainable but nor is a return to the way things were before . Middle ground compromise would only prolong the agony and increase the deaths . <p> One thing we do not know is if this will have seasonal mutation . In other words can it infect next year despite an immune response to the present infection . This would be very bad news . <p> However , if not there is the possibility that with social distancing that we can have enough people imune and enough apart that the disease runs out of hosts . This is why they make estimates of 30-70% of populations getting infected . <p> I do not know what things will be devised to mitigate this . Some people will opt to stay home with some supports or with minimal trips out for supplies - if they witness people dying . Humans have a great capacity to survive once reality sets in . <p> The problems of depression , domestic violence and suicide are very real threats . I think this will be a very serious problem even if it has not emerged . Abandoning safety could even come from the mental distress -- that people may knowingly give up their safety because they can not stand it . <p> I have been speaking about my other fear -- as this goes on the other untreated conditions will threaten more and more lives as healthcare is rationed . <p> I 'm sorry , but continuing the way things are now over the long term is not in any way realistic . People 's lives have been upended , and they 're not going to respond well to being told to stay home and not go out for months on end . There are already reports of people disobeying the quarantine in Italy . Also , with people stuck at home , we are very likely to see a spike in problems like depression , domestic violence , and suicide . Surely there must be a way to strike a middle ground where we can identify and stop these threats without shutting everything down every time they come up ? <p> Unfortunately there is no middle ground -- despite the truth of much of what you are saying here . <p> what we are doing now is not sustainable but nor is a return to the way things were before . Middle ground compromise would only prolong the agony and increase the deaths . <p> One thing we do not know is if this will have seasonal mutation . In other words can it infect next year despite an immune response to the present infection . This would be very bad news . <p> However , if not there is the possibility that with social distancing that we can have enough people imune and enough apart that the disease runs out of hosts . This is why they make estimates of 30-70% of populations getting infected . <p> I do not know what things will be devised to mitigate this . Some people will opt to stay home with some supports or with minimal trips out for supplies - if they witness people dying . Humans have a great capacity to survive once reality sets in . <p> The problems of depression , domestic violence and suicide are very real threats . I think this will be a very serious problem even if it has not emerged . Abandoning safety could even come from the mental distress -- that people may knowingly give up their safety because they can not stand it . <p> I have been speaking about my other fear -- as this goes on the other untreated conditions will threaten more and more lives as healthcare is rationed . <p> What happens if what we 're seeing in Italy triggers a more coercive response from the state , and then people continue to rebel , and this thing escalates ? <p> I 'm sorry , but continuing the way things are now over the long term is not in any way realistic . People 's lives have been upended , and they 're not going to respond well to being told to stay home and not go out for months on end . There are already reports of people disobeying the quarantine in Italy . Also , with people stuck at home , we are very likely to see a spike in problems like depression , domestic violence , and suicide . Surely there must be a way to strike a middle ground where we can identify and stop these threats without shutting everything down every time they come up ? <p> Unfortunately there is no middle ground -- despite the truth of much of what you are saying here . <p> what we are doing now is not sustainable but nor is a return to the way things were before . Middle ground compromise would only prolong the agony and increase the deaths . <p> One thing we do not know is if this will have seasonal mutation . In other words can it infect next year despite an immune response to the present infection . This would be very bad news . <p> However , if not there is the possibility that with social distancing that we can have enough people imune and enough apart that the disease runs out of hosts . This is why they make estimates of 30-70% of populations getting infected . <p> I do not know what things will be devised to mitigate this . Some people will opt to stay home with some supports or with minimal trips out for supplies - if they witness people dying . Humans have a great capacity to survive once reality sets in . <p> The problems of depression , domestic violence and suicide are very real threats . I think this will be a very serious problem even if it has not emerged . Abandoning safety could even come from the mental distress -- that people may knowingly give up their safety because they can not stand it . <p> I have been speaking about my other fear -- as this goes on the other untreated conditions will threaten more and more lives as healthcare is rationed . <p> What happens if what we 're seeing in Italy triggers a more coercive response from the state , and then people continue to rebel , and this thing escalates ? <p> Predicting social behaviour is difficult and this has never happened before . I could not guess . <p> " The improvisational and reactionary character of the nation 's response to the pandemic permeates down to and through every measure they employ in addressing the health crisis . The outbreak is , for all practical purposes , out of their control ... " <p> For several days in a row , China has reported no new locally transmitted infections . Authorities are loosening restrictions and trying to crank back up the stalled economy , urging factories and businesses to resume operation . <p> Some experts doubt the numbers officials have been reporting , noting inconsistencies in reports of what areas are deemed " low risk " . Others worry cases could spread again once normal life has resumed . <p> " It is likely that cases will rise once China eases its control measures . This means they will have to maintain vigilance for a surge of new cases and decide how to respond , " said Jennifer Nuzzo , an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University in the US . <p> Advertisement <p> On Wednesday , the Chinese leader , Xi Jinping , ordered officials at all levels of the government and Communist party to move with " urgency " in restoring economic and social order . In low-risk areas , production and normal life " must be fully restored , " he said , according to state broadcaster CCTV . <p> On Thursday , Wuhan reported no new infections for the first time . Local authorities in the surrounding Hubei province , outside Wuhan , loosened travel restrictions , allowing residents deemed healthy to begin moving around . Companies are able to arrange for their workers to come back to Wuhan and most car checkpoints have been removed . <p> Authorities are calling in the army to Italy 's hardest-hit region to help enforce orders that people stay at home , as the country registers its largest death toll in a single day since the start of the outbreak . <p> " Lombardy Gov . Attilio Fontana said the Rome government has agreed to deploy the army in his region to ensure compliance , " NPR 's Sylvia Poggioli reported . " Officials complain that there are simply too many people still on the streets with no justification . " <p> One thing we do not know is if this will have seasonal mutation . In other words can it infect next year despite an immune response to the present infection . This would be very bad news . <p> Would that necessarily be the case ? Viral mutations in many cases tend to be less lethal over time simply because it 's not in the virus ' best interest to kill its host if it wants to continue reproducing . It might change into something like the flu , which we 've all learned to live with . With a few small exceptions , we do n't shut things down during flu season . Even the H1N1 pandemic of 2009 , which reached the highest level declared by the WHO , did n't cause nearly this much disruption . Neither did SARS , which incidentally is part of the same viral family as covid 19 . <p> This gets into a philosophical situation . I get that in the moment , extreme measures need to be taken . Should they become the norm , especially if there might be a way to head off the infection so it does n't become so bad , as happened with H1N1 ? If you do n't get to do anything , or if your moves are very restricted , is it worth anything even if you are safe ? Take the example of a store or a gas station . People often rob those places with weapons . If you mandated that anyone entering had to submit to a full strip and body cavity search , that would virtually guarantee that there were no store robberies at all . I think few , if any , of us would be willing to defend that level of intrusive security . I know that 's an extreme example , but that gets to an important philosophical conversation that I feel is very important to discuss at some point , if not right now . <p> One thing we do not know is if this will have seasonal mutation . In other words can it infect next year despite an immune response to the present infection . This would be very bad news . <p> Would that necessarily be the case ? Viral mutations in many cases tend to be less lethal over time simply because it 's not in the virus ' best interest to kill its host if it wants to continue reproducing . It might change into something like the flu , which we 've all learned to live with . With a few small exceptions , we do n't shut things down during flu season . Even the H1N1 pandemic of 2009 , which reached the highest level declared by the WHO , did n't cause nearly this much disruption . Neither did SARS , which incidentally is part of the same viral family as covid 19 . <p> This gets into a philosophical situation . I get that in the moment , extreme measures need to be taken . Should they become the norm , especially if there might be a way to head off the infection so it does n't become so bad , as happened with H1N1 ? If you do n't get to do anything , or if your moves are very restricted , is it worth anything even if you are safe ? Take the example of a store or a gas station . People often rob those places with weapons . If you mandated that anyone entering had to submit to a full strip and body cavity search , that would virtually guarantee that there were no store robberies at all . I think few , if any , of us would be willing to defend that level of intrusive security . I know that 's an extreme example , but that gets to an important philosophical conversation that I feel is very important to discuss at some point , if not right now . <p> I understand your point . I do not know if anyone could answer your question . We do not know if it will come back and we do not know if it will come back mutated to get around immunity or if it does if it will be as lethal or less . <p> I also understand your second point -- although I think the answer is that we would adapt to have other ways of doing things . Like having toothpics to press elevator buttons or whatever . At the moment we have to take extreme measures until either the thing goes or we develop safe adaptations . <p> One of the most important ones is around testing . Once testing becomes quick easy and routine we may be able to secure spaces and quarantine only those with the virus until it can not get at healthy hosts . <p> How many months before we adapt or it goes away is unclear -- and how much damage it does as well . <p> This is why flattening the curve makes a difference as a delay all things being equal is not a prevention but if things change in terms of adaptation or if the virus ends then a delay could be preventative . <p> " As the coronavirus hysterics ramp up in North America and Europe , governments in Asia are already getting back to normal . Why ? All this and more ... " <p> " Senior Chinese official persists in demanding full disclosure from Washington of the earliest US coronavirus cases , after CDC official admission that some were misdiagnosed as part of their 20,000 flu deaths ... " <p> " ... The pandemic has provided , in effect , a laboratory-like demonstration of what is known : that people do better when states can plan ahead , apply national resources unequivocally to the public good , put science in the service of the people and practice international solidarity . These are characteristics of socialist societies . People do less well , as in the US , when their health and welfare are subjected to the greed of moneyed interests , and when science is sold to the highest bidder . " <p> " Toronto has recorded its first positive COVID19 case among the homeless population . The window is rapidly closing for communities to prevent devastating outbreaks in our homeless shelters . Provincial and local authorities must act now . " <p> Situation for homeless people even more dire amidst COVID-19 . Toronto is the epicentre of the homeless energy in Canada . So it is no surprise that the first case of COVID-19 in the homeless population occurred in Toronto 's second-class shelter-system known as the 24-hr respite centres . <p> Toronto 's municipal govt has refused to acknowledge and act on this petition 's plea to declare a state of emergency . Here is the picture today , and it is bringing tears to the eyes of many who are seeing it first hand ... Now is the time for rescue . In a natural disaster people are rehoused . This is the time . " <p> Imagine if China did n't work so hard the first few months to suppress information about this and down play it like it was n't a big deal ? <p> And imagine if the WHO , the " experts " , seen through China 's BS and took this hyper seriously from the start ? <p> Imagine if Canada and the US reacted more agressively to contain this ? <p> It 's nice to see to see the government getting serious about this including arresting positive citizens for ignoring orders to remain inside . One year ago the suggestion of the government doing that would have made people scream and loose their minds . Police state . Now we 're worried about food , toilet paper and paying rent . <p> Imagine if China did n't work so hard the first few months to suppress information about this and down play it like it was n't a big deal ? <p> And imagine if the WHO , the " experts " , seen through China 's BS and took this hyper seriously from the start ? <p> Imagine if Canada and the US reacted more agressively to contain this ? <p> It 's nice to see to see the government getting serious about this including arresting positive citizens for ignoring orders to remain inside . One year ago the suggestion of the government doing that would have made people scream and loose their minds . Police state . Now we 're worried about food , toilet paper and paying rent . <p> Fines -- not arrests . For obvious reasons . <p> I see no benefit in going after China at this point . Other countries have not done much better and China is offering help in great quantities and China has already stated it made mistakes and is learning from them . It has even worked to undo the damage to the reputation of the doctor who died after being a whistleblower . I think each country can spend some time on its own learning and I imagine all will . I think in this case there is no criticism that could carry more weight than the experience China has gone through . Ther eis simply nothing to gain and a lot to lose by attacking China now . China is working with others sharing studies and informaiton constantly as well as material help . <p> I saw a Canadian government message about money saying our bank notes are safe . They is plastic . It can not be . Do not assume other governments are telling the truth . Also , all governments may have reacted slowly in part not being aware what it was . China was the first to experience this . It would also have taken some time to know what they were dealing with and how serious . I would really prefer that the world spent more time on a solution than it is spending on blame . Lots of time to study this when it is history . I really doubt that there will be good marks to many governments . I suspect that many will be found to have done good things including China as well . <p> To Canada 's credit , this country is increasing foreign aid even as we are hurting to help with the virus -- particularly to refugee camps . I do not know how much but I was heartened to learn that we were doing this despite economic difficulty . China is sendng out massive amounts of aid despite knowing they will face a second more even more rounds than that . <p> China 's helping people and that 's great . Their shitty behavior when this started hurt the world . No point in " going after them " as you say but maybe in the future countries first reaction wo n't be to deny and hide and waste valuable time . There 's some really great lessons to be learned here . <p> " Private American work camp operator 's advice to workers seemingly at odds with instructions from Canadian public health officials ... " <p> The question is whether or not those camps are now on lock down . The workforce is not in the high risk category so the real risk is letting these workers go home and infect communities like mine in the Comox Valley . Daily we have oil workers who commute back and forth on West Jet . My town has a newer section called Little Alberta because of the number of commuters . <p> " The US intelligence services fear questioning for not raising enough warning about the novel coronavirus pandemic . To prevent any criticism they asked their favored stenographers to write an exculpating piece ... China warned us early on . It was and is the ' west ' which despite having been warned , is responding poorly to the virus . " <p> Luckily Apartheid Israel only wounded him instead of shooting him dead unlike the other clearly marked medic murdered helping wounded Palestinians next to him during the Gaza March of Return in 2018 . Naturally CBC does n't mention that . <p> Imagine if China did n't work so hard the first few months to suppress information about this and down play it like it was n't a big deal ? <p> And imagine if the WHO , the " experts " , seen through China 's BS and took this hyper seriously from the start ? <p> Imagine if Canada and the US reacted more agressively to contain this ? <p> It 's nice to see to see the government getting serious about this including arresting positive citizens for ignoring orders to remain inside . One year ago the suggestion of the government doing that would have made people scream and loose their minds . Police state . Now we 're worried about food , toilet paper and paying rent . <p> Fines -- not arrests . For obvious reasons . <p> I see no benefit in going after China at this point . Other countries have not done much better and China is offering help in great quantities and China has already stated it made mistakes and is learning from them . It has even worked to undo the damage to the reputation of the doctor who died after being a whistleblower . I think each country can spend some time on its own learning and I imagine all will . I think in this case there is no criticism that could carry more weight than the experience China has gone through . Ther eis simply nothing to gain and a lot to lose by attacking China now . China is working with others sharing studies and informaiton constantly as well as material help . <p> I saw a Canadian government message about money saying our bank notes are safe . They is plastic . It can not be . Do not assume other governments are telling the truth . Also , all governments may have reacted slowly in part not being aware what it was . China was the first to experience this . It would also have taken some time to know what they were dealing with and how serious . I would really prefer that the world spent more time on a solution than it is spending on blame . Lots of time to study this when it is history . I really doubt that there will be good marks to many governments . I suspect that many will be found to have done good things including China as well . <p> To Canada 's credit , this country is increasing foreign aid even as we are hurting to help with the virus -- particularly to refugee camps . I do not know how much but I was heartened to learn that we were doing this despite economic difficulty . China is sendng out massive amounts of aid despite knowing they will face a second more even more rounds than that . <p> " Italy suffers its deadliest single day during the pandemic with more than 620 lives lost on Friday . In neighboring France , police officers threaten to quit unless they are provided with better equipment to protect themselves from the virus . Volkswagen becomes the latest car grant to halt production amid the COVID-19 outbreak on the health crisis puts ever more jobs at risk . US Senators are accused of insider trading after they sold off their stocks just before the recent crash ... " <p> Apparently the new NAFTA which few here opposed or even noticed and which Freeland , Singh et al did their utmost to speedily pass recently , is looking dodgy in light of the economic mayhem which is Covid . Have n't seen that reported on CBC either ... <p> Fascinating to watch all the " advanced " capitalist countries suddenly unable to provide basic medical product like surgical masks because they outsourced the production decades ago . Locally the small business owners are adapting so many of our craft gin makers have switched to making hand sanitizers . <p> I for one am glad that the Chinese people , through the actions of their government , have been so generous with shipping supplies to the hardest hit , unprepared countries in Europe . <p> I for one am glad that the Chinese people , through the actions of their government , have been so generous with shipping supplies to the hardest hit , unprepared countries in Europe . <p> I think many others feel this way . <p> Italians have been shocked after appealing to the EU to get borders slammed in their faces and needed supplies banned from export to another EU country . The fact that China responded at least one report form Italy I saw was that they will remember who their friends really are . <p> I for one am glad that the Chinese people , through the actions of their government , have been so generous with shipping supplies to the hardest hit , unprepared countries in Europe . <p> I think many others feel this way . <p> Italians have been shocked after appealing to the EU to get borders slammed in their faces and needed supplies banned from export to another EU country . The fact that China responded at least one report form Italy I saw was that they will remember who their friends really are . <p> You can still have large scale travel bans and border closures while making exceptions for things like medical equpiment and allowing medical personnel to move around between global hotspots . <p> I for one am glad that the Chinese people , through the actions of their government , have been so generous with shipping supplies to the hardest hit , unprepared countries in Europe . <p> I think many others feel this way . <p> Italians have been shocked after appealing to the EU to get borders slammed in their faces and needed supplies banned from export to another EU country . The fact that China responded at least one report form Italy I saw was that they will remember who their friends really are . <p> You can still have large scale travel bans and border closures while making exceptions for things like medical equpiment and allowing medical personnel to move around between global hotspots. 
@@51622917 <p> " Telehealth Ontario wait-times have now increased with some people waiting up to 4 days for a call from a health care professional . " <p> 4 days means the service is not existant . This delay means that theya re not screening for emergencies . The system for all purposes it was meant for is overwhelmed and may as well be shit down if they do not give it more resources . <p> That 's asking people to essentially put their lives on hold and wait for 12-18 months for this thing to be over . Has anyone thought of the implications of that ? Italy has n't even been on lockdown for 2 months and already we are hearing reports of people breaking curfew and of grocery store riots . Can you imagine the chaos if this goes on even longer than that ? <p> That 's exactly what a lot of people are being asked to do . Stay home and wait . Add to the mix people lost their income and they 're scared and mad because they 've never been exposed to a situation where they ca n't drive to the store and buy milk or toilet paper . Many have never been in a situation where they 're threatened with doing without food and services . <p> More and more cases of young people getting infected . And dying . Which is sad but also has benifit of that demographic taking this seriously . <p> We 're going to see the " I know my rights ! " crowd take a back seat to survival instinct . <p> ****** <p> Quotes not working here -- I went to edit to fix but they are actually already there so nothing I can do : my comment follows : <p> All that and the people expected to actually have money to cover the csts of this without a job market or any support whatsoever <p> Delta police stopped two people this week allegedly trying to re-sell thousands of face and surgical masks -- at " highly inflated " prices -- in defiance of a provincial order banning such sales . <p> A constable with the Delta Police Department 's crime reduction unit , which typically focuses on stolen property , was proactively looking through online ads when she came upon an individual looking to re-sell N95 masks , the police force said in a news release on Friday ( April 3 ) . <p> The officer reached out and arranged to buy a quantity of masks at a price of $15 per unit , plus a $300 " delivery fee . " <p> quote : <p> A day later , on Friday , April 3 , Delta police handed a second person a $500 bylaw ticket after arranging to purchase 3,000 surgical masks from them for $2,200 . <p> Both sellers voluntarily relinquished the masks to police , with the second seller relinquishing an additional 2,300 units . In total , police took possession of 5,360 masks between the two . <p> I am not happy with the insults to Tam for inconsistencies over time . This is dangerous . It is the job of scientists to be able to stay up to date as new information comes out and provide the best advice they can today regardless of any perceived need to say the same things today as they did yesterday or last week or last month . <p> There is no room for big apologies when new infomration contradicts the past becuase science is not fixed and has to evolve . You need to not make scientists feel like changing their minds is a failure . <p> When confroted with emergencies like , this people have to think with greater flexibility and understand that the best advice today will be , and should be , based on the experience and learning of yesterday and the days before that . <p> The Los Angeles Times reports the Trump administration is quietly seizing hospitals ' orders of masks , thermometers and other medical equipment crucial to treating COVID-19 patients . The Federal Emergency Management Agency is not publicly disclosing what supplies it 's seizing or where it 's planning to reroute them . One medical official asked the L.A. Times , " Are they stockpiling this stuff ? Are they distributing it ? We do n't know . And are we going to ever get any of it back if we need supplies ? It would be nice to know these things . " <p> It looks like Trump wants to expand his power and personal credit by controlling supplies . It seems clear why this is happening . <p> What we do not yet know is to what degree he will favour Republican States in this process . <p> I am not happy with the insults to Tam for inconsistencies over time . This is dangerous . <p> Disagree my friend . I think criticism leveled towards her for what she says and does , especially as a Chief Public Health Officer of Canada , is entirely warranted . Canada was caught with our pants down . We were n't prepared and we did n't take this seriously . We routinely defauted to " but the WHO said this " as an excuse . The WHOs bias and poilitically driven behavior is no secret . As a leader much of the responsibility for this falls on her shoulders ( and Trudeau ) . <p> But she 's genuinely all over the place . I think changing ones opinion when new evidence presents itself is great and an act of humility . Someone in her role with her education should have seen this evidence a lot sooner IMO . <p> On Mar. 30 , the Hungarian Parliament , which is controlled by far-right prime minister Viktor Orb ? n 's party , Fidesz , voted to cancel all elections , suspend its own ability to legislate , and give the prime minister the right to rule by decree -- indefinitely . The legislation granting Orb ? n sweeping powers would introduce draconian prison sentences for " obstructing " any means that the government would take in fighting the pandemic . For instance , if someone spreads misinformation that could supposedly hinder the government 's response to the pandemic , they receive up to five years in prison . If someone breaches quarantine rules , they are sentenced up to eight years in prison . <p> The measure passed by 137-53 , the majority commanded by Fidesz allowing the law to easily pass in Parliament . Opposition parties , while voicing concerns about the scope of the emergency powers granted to Orban , believed that the emergency situation in the nation warranted drastic measures perceived as necessary in fighting the crisis . They have expressed hope that these measures will be revoked when Hungary recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic . <p> Human rights organizations have condemned what has been described as a political " coup " , with Amnesty International 's D ? vid Vig stating that " this is not the way to address the very real crisis that has been caused by the Covid-19 pandemic . " In response to allegations of expanding authoritarian powers , Orb ? n spokesman Zolt ? n Kov ? cs defended the legislation as necessary in defending Hungary against a " pandemic the likes of which we have not seen in a century " . He singled out criticism of Orb ? n 's consolidation of power as taking " liberal media cynicism to new , despicable lows " . <p> Growing authoritarianism in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic is n't restricted to Hungary . Around the world , various leaders , particularly far-right nationalists , have been using the COVID-19 outbreak as a pretext for granting themselves sweeping powers under the pretext of fighting the COVID-19 outbreak . <p> quote : <p> What do these scenarios have in common ? All of the above scenarios feature populist and far right leaders that have taken any opportunity presented to them to consolidate authoritarian power at any means necessary . They escalate political repression and xenophobia against minorities suspected to carry the virus ; COVID-19 being the latest pretext for the expansion of authoritarian power . <p> Coronavirus live streaming , breaking news , world map and live counter on confirmed cases , deaths , recovered cases . <p> These are interesting and I think we are all fascinated and watching the progress of this horrible pandemic . We feel the threat and want information . <p> However , the reliability of that information must be questioned . <p> Some countries are not being honest but this is a simplistic perspective to blame for the problems here . Many countries are not so much under reporting as unaware . I wrote about Ontario , maybe the worst hit province in Canada . We think it is Quebec but Quebec is testing at a rate significantly higher than Ontario and the statistical difference in diagnosed cases could be explained by a lack of testing . Testing in Ontario is down to 2000 per day well below the promised 20,000 . This is happenign around the world . In some places they can not afford the testing and some lack the supplies . Some countries can not respond to the sick so there is no point testing . Some ocuntries are politically opposed to showing more cases . Some places have legitimate fears about going and getting tested and what that could do to employment or the implications of the cost of treatment . In the US there is cause not to want to be identified as it could lead to deportation or refusal to get status later . <p> To make matters worse there are many without symptoms . Some places are not testing those without symptoms and others are -- the method behind choosing who to test is so different that results are meaningless . <p> Sadly , without testing , there is no possible effective control to the virus . Socail distancing can only go so far for whole populations , That must be combined with testing and contact tracing until you eradicate the virus . <p> " What is unacceptable , absolutely unacceptable are the numbers of testing that we 're doing said Ontario Premier Doug Ford . ' My patience has run thin ... we need to start doing 13,000 every single day . ( and vid ) <p> Obviously . Without widespread public testing we are ' flying blind . ' But this has been so for some time now . Do n't be fooled by the propaganda medicine show trotted out daily to convince you everything is under control and in capable hands . The reality contradicts the politicians ' daily PR spin . <p> " What is unacceptable , absolutely unacceptable are the numbers of testing that we 're doing said Ontario Premier Doug Ford . ' My patience has run thin ... we need to start doing 13,000 every single day . ( and vid ) <p> Obviously . Without widespread public testing we are ' flying blind . ' But this has been so for some time now . Do n't be fooled by the propaganda medicine show trotted out daily to convince you everything is under control and in capable hands . The reality contradicts the politicians ' daily PR spin . <p> They should open up hotels or even student residences for any woman trying to escape domestic violence . <p> Aristotleded24 wrote : <p> I think more broadly it speaks to the idea that health and safety is a complex interconnected web of many factors . It should not have surprised anyone that by confining people to their residences that domestic violence would increase . This is something that health officials need to consider . The drastic measures implemented to stop coronavirus are going to have several negative knock-down effects on people 's health . This is but one example . We need to at some point , find a more balanced approach . You ca n't have this level of restriction going on for another 18 months as some people have suggested . We have to find a way to live with this virus , and let life go on at some point . <p> There will be an ebb and flow until a vaccine is available . We ca n't just " let life go on " because if we do the economic system will still collapse perhaps worse than now . The 1% would not allow this shutdown if they did n't realize the alternative is worse . No government in Canada can survive having corpses left in the street . <p> They keep emphasizing the vulnerablity of the old leading people to believe that is the main problem . It is n't . Many people live after being in critical care . If we overwhelm the health care system they will die and so will everyone else in a car accident or that has cancer or any other life-threatening condition . <p> Experts expect there to be waves of infection . We ca n't even think about returning to normal until testing can be ramped up . Testing and tracing will be key to keeping it under control as will a sufficient stock of N95 masks . <p> The most likely course will be a gradual loosening of the stay at home orders . The elderly and the vulnerable will have to continue staying home longer and protect themselves from visitors . Those who can work from home will be encouraged to continue doing so . The size of gatherings will be limited . Factories and construction will probably open before restaurants . We wo n't fully open up until there is a vaccine . <p> What is this supposed to mean ? Remember that China is a rising world power , so of course the United States is going to want to paint China in as negative a light as possible . Do you understand how dangerous that can be , leading these countries on a path towards war ? Furthermore , you have been critical of the WHO in these discussions . What should we have instead ? Do you think the WHO should not be in existence ? I ca n't think of a worse situation for a global pandemic than that . <p> Furthermore , is it China 's fault that the Trump Administration repeatedly downplayed coronavirus ? Is it China 's fault that the Presidents of Mexico and Brazil repeatedly flouted the social distancing requirements and held rallies for political purposes ? Did China somehow manage to prevent New Zealand and Australia ( both Western allies ) from getting a handle on this thing very early on ? <p> That 's not to say that China necessarily did everything correctly . In the immediate term , co-operation is important from keeping this thing from getting out of hand . Later on , we should absolutely assess what went wrong , where all governments ( whether China 's government or our own ) made mistakes or were less than transparent , and figure out where to go from here . The only alternative is to get into a pointless blame game with major powers accusing each other while not looking in the mirror , which will result in a nuclear war that 's going to get all of us killed . <p> Yeah , China may not have been entirely up front but even when they were the world sat on its hands so what China did or did n't do made no difference . I 'm not entirely happy with the WHO either but it can be improved . No need to throw the baby out with the bathwater . <p> There will be an ebb and flow until a vaccine is available . We ca n't just " let life go on " because if we do the economic system will still collapse perhaps worse than now . The 1% would not allow this shutdown if they did n't realize the alternative is worse . No government in Canada can survive having corpses left in the street . <p> Or maybe the 1% are using the prospect of a prolonged shut-down to consolidate their resources and create a world for themselves while completely excluding the rest of us . And the idea of the economy shutting down worse if restrictions were loosened ? Where did that come from ? Sounds like ridiculous fearmongering to me . <p> Pondering wrote : <p> They keep emphasizing the vulnerablity of the old leading people to believe that is the main problem . It is n't . Many people live after being in critical care . If we overwhelm the health care system they will die and so will everyone else in a car accident or that has cancer or any other life-threatening condition . <p> Given how this has played out in Canada , is there any evidence that this is a realistic possibility at this point ? Even Quebec has had some good news as of late about hospital stays and capacity . Most of the days that saw new cases in Manitoba saw those new cases increase in the single digits , and we have n't seen the steep exponential curve that we were told to expect . So Quebec expects 1000 dead by the end of April in the best case scenario ? Where does that figure come from ? <p> Pondering wrote : <p> The most likely course will be a gradual loosening of the stay at home orders . The elderly and the vulnerable will have to continue staying home longer and protect themselves from visitors . Those who can work from home will be encouraged to continue doing so . The size of gatherings will be limited . Factories and construction will probably open before restaurants . We wo n't fully open up until there is a vaccine . <p> The experts who get attention in the MSM are saying that . Eastnoireast posted a video in this thread of an expert who is questioning this consensus . <p> The other question is how long a time frame are we looking at ? One year ? Sure , you can come up with a large number of people who are expected to die , and that sounds scary . But lots of people are going to die in a one year time frame in any case because , tragic as it is when it happens , people will always die . And they 've modelled the prospect of hospitals being over-run because of covid 19 . Can they model how the number of women and children who die as a result of domestic abuse will increase ? Can they model how many more people will commit suicide brought on by the social distancing measures ? Can they model if crisis counselling services will be overwhelmed because of increased isolation ? Can they model if more people will die from cardiovascular disease from not exercising , or brought on by stress ? Can they model how addictive coping behaviours , like doing drugs , drinking , or smoking will increase as a result of the stress of these measures ? Will this not cause increased pressure on the health care system . <p> As iminent as the threat may be , there is much more to community health than coronavirus . Maybe these measures are necessary in the short term , but we should be using this time to learn about the virus , test , isolate the sick people , and then we will have the necessary knowledge and health infrastructure to respond more effectively when the next wave hits . Health officials who are advocating crazy ideas like a 12-18 month lockdown are not seriously thinking through the ramifications of their proposals . <p> " ... On March 17 , Kristian Andersen of the Scripps Research Institute in California and his team showed that the new coronavirus strain , SARS-Cov-2 , hadd a mutation in its genes known as a polybasic cleavage site that was unseen in any coronavirus seen in bats or pangolins and that there is a likelihood that the virus came to humans many years ago , and indeed not necessarily in Wuhan . Zhong Nanshan , a noted epidemiologist , said that ' although the COVID-19 first appeared in China , that does not necessarily mean it originated there . The Western media have consistently made scientifically unfounded claims about the source of the virus , even when Western scientists were urging caution ... " <p> " The current coronavirus pandemic is more than a medical crisis , it is also a political and ideological crisis . It is a crisis deeply rooted in years of neglect by neoliberal governments that denied the importance of public health and the public good while defunding the institutions that made them possible . Neoliberal capitalism is the underlying pandemic feeding the current global shortage of hospitals , medical supplies , beds nurses , doctors and robust social welfare provisions , and increasingly an indifference to human life . Under such circumstances , the social sphere and its interconnections become an object of either financial exploitation , utter disdain , or both . We live at a time of multiple plagues that fuel the current coronavirus epidemic that is engulfing the globe inflicting economic misery , suffering and death as they move through societies with the speed of a deadly tornado ... " <p> " Blackrock 's CEO Larry Fink may now be the most powerful man in the world , overseeing not just the Fed 's new ( potentially $4.5 trillion ) corporate slush-fund , but also managing $27 trillion of the global economy ... " <p> " As of Wednesday morning , de Villa said there are 45 confirmed cases and 56 probable cases at the facility where there are a total of 249 residents . Additionally there are 13 staff members who have tested positive for the virus . ' Unfortunately , we anticipate there may be additional deaths among those residents who have become ill with COVID-19 over the past four weeks , ' de Villa said ... " <p> Long-Term ' Care Homes ' : How many more of these ' care homes ' of horror to come Canucklheads ? Would you want to live/die in one ? Would you willingly put anyone you truly care about into one of these death-beds for our elders ... ? <p> " An Ontario nursing home besieged by COVID-19 did n't separate healthy from sick residents or staff until after 16 people had died , and two weeks after the home declared a respiratory outbreak , CBC News has learned . The disease has claimed the lives of more than a third of the residents of Pinecrest , located in Bobcaygeon Ont , about 150 kilometres northeast of Toronto . The facility houses 65 residents . As of Tuesday , 27 residents had died and so had a spouse of a resident who volunteered at the home . Pinecrest officials did not respond to questions from CBC News ... " <p> There have been confirmed cases at more than 600 nursing homes across Canada . And with shared accommodation common in older facilities , along with space constraints , Gardiner said she fears a repeat of what has happened at Pinecrest . <p> She said these nursing homes need to have their outbreak plans in place . <p> " Pinecrest is the canary in the coal mine for this . This is going to happen in other homes , " she said . <p> " Unfortunately , we 're the first . So , if people can learn from what has happened to us and take away something that saves other people , I would be happy with that . " <p> This is the problem with Canada 's response and our Ontario centered media . Pinecrest is an example of how not to respond . BC had an outbreak a month earlier and our public health officers were involved immediately . The two stories are exactly a month apart so why did n't Ontario health care workers know about it especially Ontario 's Public Heath Officer . <p> " BC changed policy after outbreaks were linked to employee working at more than one site . That decision was made based on evidence that care staff were potentially carrying the virus from one care home to another . And while Ontario seems to agree that a single employer would be safer amid the ongoing pandemic , it has stopped short of mandating such a move ... " <p> The Trump administration said Wednesday it will pay General Motors nearly half a billion dollars to manufacture 30,000 ventilators amid a critical shortage of the life-saving devices . The White House says GM will deliver about 6,000 ventilators by the end of May , with the rest delivered through the summer to the end of August . Many models for COVID-19 in the United States predict the need for ventilators will peak this month before tapering off through the month of May . <p> Medical researchers say the novel coronavirus likely circulated undetected for weeks in New York beginning in February -- long before New York confirmed its first COVID-19 case on March 1 . Two separate teams of researchers say genetic material taken from thousands of patients shows the main source of early infections came from Europe , and not from Asia . The finding undermines President Trump 's argument that his ban on travelers from China in late January delayed the arrival of the coronavirus in the U.S. It also underscores how a critical lack of testing laid the seeds for an explosion of COVID-19 illnesses and deaths in New York and beyond . <p> Meanwhile , the National Academy of Sciences warns the spread of the coronavirus is unlikely to slow as springtime temperatures return to the Northern Hemisphere . <p> In Yemen , the U.S.-backed , Saudi-led coalition fighting Houthi rebels has declared a two-week unilateral ceasefire as COVID-19 spreads across the Arabian Peninsula . Five years of war have devastated Yemen 's healthcare and sanitation infrastructure , leading to what the United Nations calls the world 's worst humanitarian catastrophe . Over 100,000 people are dead , with millions at risk of famine -- as well as COVID-19 infection . Yemen has recorded over 2 million cases of cholera since 2016 . Last month , the Trump administration cut off tens of millions of dollars in medical aid and other assistance for Yemen . <p> The Yemen ceasefire comes amid reports that as many as 150 members of the Saudi royal family have contracted COVID-19 , including 76-year-old Prince Faisal bin Bandar , the governor of Riyadh , who has reportedly been admitted to an intensive care unit . <p> What is this supposed to mean ? Remember that China is a rising world power , so of course the United States is going to want to paint China in as negative a light as possible . <p> If anyone should pay for anything it should be China . This is their fault . And why would n't the US want to paint China in a negative light ? China fucked up . We should n't try to downplay their part . <p> Virus originated in China . Just like SARS did before . <p> China lied about it ( like SARS ) and tried to hide it from the world ( like SARS ) . <p> When they could n't hide it they tried to downplay the severity of it , including getting the WHO to support their BS . <p> True to form they used dracoin methods to try and contain it . Dragging people from their homes , bording others up inside their homes . Talk about executions . <p> Trump administration behaved a heck of a lot like China in down playing it , ignoring the danger signs . To a lesser extent just like Canada . But this started in China and they were complict in not containing it or communicating about it , so if we need to find someone to blame ( which really does n't matter ) then point fingers at China then Trump and Trudeau . <p> Human rights groups are calling on Israel to urgently lift its blockade of occupied Gaza and the West Bank to allow the flow of medical supplies , equipment and medical personnel needed to stem the spread of the coronavirus and to treat COVID-19 patients . This comes as Palestinian health officials say Gaza has run out of coronavirus test kits and are pleading with international organizations for more ventilators and beds for intensive care units . <p> Meanwhile , the Pentagon has gifted 1 million surgical masks to the Israel Defense Forces , as soldiers remain on patrol in occupied Palestinian territories during the outbreak . <p> The Israeli government has ordered Palestinians who hold permits to work in Israel to download a smartphone app giving Israel 's military access to personal and GPS location data -- and even to cameras . <p> In environmental news , the snow-capped Himalayas are visible from cities in northern India for the first time in 30 years , as pollution levels have dropped dramatically since the enactment of a nationwide coronavirus lockdown . Los Angeles saw some of the cleanest air of any city in the world this week , as the dark smog and pollution that usually clouds the city 's skyline have dissipated under California 's strict stay-at-home measures . <p> Meanwhile , the Trump administration is set to open more than 100 national wildlife refuges to hunting and fishing . The plan would allow fishing for the first time at several wildlife refuges , including the San Diego Bay and the Everglades Headwaters in Florida . <p> On a practical note , let me also say this : I will stay on the ballot in all remaining states and continue to gather delegates . While Vice President Biden will be the nominee , we must continue working to assemble as many delegates as possible at the Democratic convention , where we will be able to exert significant influence over the party platform and other functions . Then , together , standing united , we will go forward to defeat Donald Trump , the most dangerous president in modern American history . And we will fight to elect strong progressives at every level of government , from Congress to the school board . <p> What is this supposed to mean ? Remember that China is a rising world power , so of course the United States is going to want to paint China in as negative a light as possible . <p> If anyone should pay for anything it should be China . This is their fault . And why would n't the US want to paint China in a negative light ? China fucked up . Why try to downplay their part ? <p> Virus originated in China . Just like SARS did before . <p> China lied about it ( like SARS ) and tried to hide it from the world ( like SARS ) . <p> When they could n't hide it they tried to downplay the severity of it , including getting the WHO to support their BS . <p> True to form they used dracoin methods to try and contain it . Dragging people from their homes , bording others up inside their homes . Talk about executions . <p> Trump administration behaved a heck of a lot like China in down playing it , ignoring the danger signs . To a lesser extent just like Canada . But this started in China and they were complict in not containing it or communicating about it , so if we need to find someone to blame ( which really does n't matter ) then point fingers at China then Trump and Trudeau . <p> Sorry -- can not agree with this . The fact that it was discovered in China being a reason to blame them amounts to a serious enduring discinsentive to ever tell the truth ( just hopw it goes somewhere else so they pay the bill . Ther eis no evidence that anything China did caused this . There is no evidence that in most the period they were accused of suppressing this that they actually understood they had a problem It is possible that they did not agree with the whistleblower and really thought he was exaggerating . <p> Other countries have behaved no better even though it was identified before they experienced it . <p> The Chinese have shared a great deal both of study information that could have bee kept secret and supplies . The response has been mosty others pissing in their face . They have produced quickly supplies -- some of those were defective but is it a news story when they are fine ? No. any other manufacturing ramp up would have quality problems here and there but the venom against China has been tinged with large doses of racism . That in itself has been a caost . This cost has been born by China and by other countries who assumed China 's problems were due to inferiority and failed to act . <p> Now with lots of lead time before this expanded what bill should China pay ? The modest mitigation effort that may have controled this early on or the cost of all the other countries to lob racist responses to China and through their incompetence blow this up ? Should China pay in an emergency at higher cost to restock all the supplies wealthier countries let go to nothing through lack of preparation and incompetence ? <p> Should China , without conclusive evidence pay extra becuase it has a large land mass where it is morely likely to be the site for pathogens to develop ? Does Canada want that liability as well ? <p> What exactly does it gain to levy this blame rather than make the wealthiest step up and pay to fix this in the interest of the world ? <p> To what extent do we trace responsibility for China 's situation to a series of causes and effects that come back to exploitation and imperialism : Yes I can lay this out if you need but the present government in China is not in a vacuum . They serve the desires of other countries to produce . They came to power in a reaction to the mass exploitation and occupation of Chinese cities in the 19th century and abandonment in the 20th . Exactly how far do we want to go when it comes to responsibility ? Just as far as convenient ? <p> I am extremely critical of the Chinese government and have been attacked many times here for that . So do n't think I am an apologist for them . The blame China arguments do n't hold up to logic , science , or history and they do not explain the mass failures happening in all countries . <p> On a practical note , let me also say this : I will stay on the ballot in all remaining states and continue to gather delegates . While Vice President Biden will be the nominee , we must continue working to assemble as many delegates as possible at the Democratic convention , where we will be able to exert significant influence over the party platform and other functions . Then , together , standing united , we will go forward to defeat Donald Trump , the most dangerous president in modern American history . And we will fight to elect strong progressives at every level of government , from Congress to the school board . <p> Fact is this campaign ended in significant success . Sanders moved the Democrat party leftwards and also moved the dismal candidate Biden leftwards . If the Democrats win they will be much better fro what he did . He has changed lives in the US in meaning ful ways by having highlighted an essential agenda . He has lit the torch of a new movement that is based on his own courage and perseverance . <p> " In 2016 a pandemic drill was carried out in Britain with shocking results . Devastated by cuts , the NHS was overwhelmed . The govt was warned , but did nothing and the Dept of Health suppressed the conclusions . What has happened in 2020 is a state crime . " <p> Ditto the government of Canada . Unforgiveably unprepared on a predictable public health pandemic emergency . In effect criminal negligence . <p> While the CCPA 's work is focused on progressive policies that will help protect workers and their families during this difficult time , we have received many requests from workers and renters looking for resources to help them navigate uncertainty during the COVID-19 pandemic . The selection of resources which appear on this page are for informational purposes . <p> What is this supposed to mean ? Remember that China is a rising world power , so of course the United States is going to want to paint China in as negative a light as possible . <p> If anyone should pay for anything it should be China . This is their fault . And why would n't the US want to paint China in a negative light ? China fucked up . Why try to downplay their part ? <p> Virus originated in China . Just like SARS did before . <p> China lied about it ( like SARS ) and tried to hide it from the world ( like SARS ) . <p> When they could n't hide it they tried to downplay the severity of it , including getting the WHO to support their BS . <p> True to form they used dracoin methods to try and contain it . Dragging people from their homes , bording others up inside their homes . Talk about executions . <p> Trump administration behaved a heck of a lot like China in down playing it , ignoring the danger signs . To a lesser extent just like Canada . But this started in China and they were complict in not containing it or communicating about it , so if we need to find someone to blame ( which really does n't matter ) then point fingers at China then Trump and Trudeau . <p> Sorry -- can not agree with this . The fact that it was discovered in China being a reason to blame them amounts to a serious enduring discinsentive to ever tell the truth ( just hopw it goes somewhere else so they pay the bill . Ther eis no evidence that anything China did caused this . There is no evidence that in most the period they were accused of suppressing this that they actually understood they had a problem It is possible that they did not agree with the whistleblower and really thought he was exaggerating . <p> Furthermore , there have also been rumours about pneumonia cases around Italy in December that may have been due to corona but were never tested . This was before we heard reports about coronavirus coming out of China around the New Year . If that turned out to be true , would that mean we should blame Italy and make Italy pay for this ? <p> Other countries have behaved no better even though it was identified before they experienced it . <p> The Chinese have shared a great deal both of study information that could have bee kept secret and supplies . The response has been mosty others pissing in their face . They have produced quickly supplies -- some of those were defective but is it a news story when they are fine ? No. any other manufacturing ramp up would have quality problems here and there but the venom against China has been tinged with large doses of racism . That in itself has been a caost . This cost has been born by China and by other countries who assumed China 's problems were due to inferiority and failed to act . <p> Note that life is now returning to normal in China after 3 months . Contrast that with restrictions of movement here and fearmongering that we are going to continue to have to live this way for 18 months because of more waves to come . Also look for demonzation of China to continue that they are " hiding cases . " <p> I thought we were the ones who lived in a free country and that China was an evil , dictatorial country that restricted free movements of its people through agressive police state tactics and government fearmongering . The irony . <p> Sorry -- can not agree with this . The fact that it was discovered in China being a reason to blame them amounts to a serious enduring discinsentive to ever tell the truth ( just hopw it goes somewhere else so they pay the bill . Ther eis no evidence that anything China did caused this . There is no evidence that in most the period they were accused of suppressing this that they actually understood they had a problem It is possible that they did not agree with the whistleblower and really thought he was exaggerating . <p> That 's a great post Sean even though I disagree with it . <p> I 'm not suggesting we should go out and burn Chinese products or treat Chinese people any differently . I simply think *if* we 're looking to point fingers then it starts with China . No they 're probably not responsible for creating the virus or releasing it . They 're responsible for their initial actions upon discovering it , which includes trying to hide and suppress it . They also went after the doctor who tried to warn people about the virus in true Chinese fasion . The other doctor responsible for trying to get the word out is now missing . I 'm pretty cognizant of my bias and try to be open minded about being wrong , because I 'm wrong a lot : ) I do n't see any argument where someone can convince me China are anything but horrible in terms of government and ethics . <p> Quote : <p> The Chinese have shared a great deal both of study information that could have bee kept secret and supplies . <p> This was China trying to save face after trying to hide the outbreak then down playing it while trying to censor the doctor warning people . And yes they shipped bogus medical supplies , that 's no something to just shrug our shoulders at . <p> Canada shares blame for the shitty way we approached this to start . Trump and the US ? Out to lunch . They spent weeks downplaying it then paniced when they seen it was exploding . Lots of deaths are on the hands of the US government . <p> Note that life is now returning to normal in China after 3 months . Contrast that with restrictions of movement here and fearmongering that we are going to continue to have to live this way for 18 months because of more waves to come . Also look for demonzation of China to continue that they are " hiding cases . " <p> There 's a difference between our countries and why it appears China might beat this quicker than us . <p> China litteraly borded people up in their homes , dropped food off and put guards outside for months . Any bets on what happened to anyone tyring to leave ? ( according to Amnesty International , China executes more people than the rest of the world combined ) <p> Or maybe the 1% are using the prospect of a prolonged shut-down to consolidate their resources and create a world for themselves while completely excluding the rest of us . And the idea of the economy shutting down worse if restrictions were loosened ? Where did that come from ? Sounds like ridiculous fearmongering to me . <p> The economy would not be doing well with corpses piling up in arenas and hospitals too full to do surgeries . The wealthy need us to generate wealth . They do n't want to the ones doing the work of keeping the world turning . They also need consumers . Do they care if the old , the weak , the poor , prisoners and refugees die ? Probably not . <p> Restrictions are going to be loosened . They are just trying to flatten the curve to prevent the collapse of the health care system . <p> Aristotleded24 wrote : <p> So Quebec expects 1000 dead by the end of April in the best case scenario ? Where does that figure come from ? <p> Apparently it takes about a month to die so deaths still keep going up even as the number of cases goes down . <p> Pondering wrote : <p> The most likely course will be a gradual loosening of the stay at home orders . The elderly and the vulnerable will have to continue staying home longer and protect themselves from visitors . Those who can work from home will be encouraged to continue doing so . The size of gatherings will be limited . Factories and construction will probably open before restaurants . We wo n't fully open up until there is a vaccine . <p> Aristotleded24 wrote : <p> The experts who get attention in the MSM are saying that . Eastnoireast posted a video in this thread of an expert who is questioning this consensus . <p> It is n't up to them it is up to the politicians and they are saying until there is a vaccine there will be lightening and tightening of restrictions assuming the expected waves occur . They may not but they probably will . Manufacturing will catch up on PPEs so if enough people use them that will help . <p> Aristotleded24 wrote : <p> The other question is how long a time frame are we looking at ? One year ? Sure , you can come up with a large number of people who are expected to die , and that sounds scary . But lots of people are going to die in a one year time frame in any case because , tragic as it is when it happens , people will always die . And they 've modelled the prospect of hospitals being over-run because of covid 19 . Can they model how the number of women and children who die as a result of domestic abuse will increase ? Can they model how many more people will commit suicide brought on by the social distancing measures ? Can they model if crisis counselling services will be overwhelmed because of increased isolation ? Can they model if more people will die from cardiovascular disease from not exercising , or brought on by stress ? Can they model how addictive coping behaviours , like doing drugs , drinking , or smoking will increase as a result of the stress of these measures ? Will this not cause increased pressure on the health care system . <p> Probably yes but it does n't compare to the pressure of covid-19 patients because they are infectious and many are treated for a long time in ICU . <p> Aristotleded24 wrote : <p> As iminent as the threat may be , there is much more to community health than coronavirus . Maybe these measures are necessary in the short term , but we should be using this time to learn about the virus , test , isolate the sick people , and then we will have the necessary knowledge and health infrastructure to respond more effectively when the next wave hits . Health officials who are advocating crazy ideas like a 12-18 month lockdown are not seriously thinking through the ramifications of their proposals . <p> I 'm pretty sure they are not talking about measures this extreme continuing for that long . Some measures , like no festivals , may have to be in place longer . I know that Just for Laughs was hoping to move to fall but I doubt that will happen . The festivals for next year are now over a year away so it 's possible we can have them next year . Some people will go back to work but many will continue working from home where possible . <p> Some people will be quick to return to life as usual but many wo n't . Tourism will take years to recover . <p> The economy would not be doing well with corpses piling up in arenas and hospitals too full to do surgeries . <p> Where has there even remotely been a scenario like this that has played out anywhere in the world ? Sounds to me like when George Bush said we had to go to war with Iraq rather than wait for the final smoking gun to come in the form of a musrhoom cloud . <p> Pondering wrote : <p> The wealthy need us to generate wealth . They do n't want to the ones doing the work of keeping the world turning . They also need consumers . Do they care if the old , the weak , the poor , prisoners and refugees die ? Probably not . <p> On the contrary , they can ride out an 18 month period of social distancing . The rest of us can not . Many small businesses and community organizations will not survive such a time . The other thing is that the ability to practice social distancing depends a great deal on where you stand in the economic ladder . It 's really more about self-preservation than anything else . Do you think they care about the risks that Amazon workers are taking to deliver their items now that they have restricted hours at the mall and other businesses have closed outright ? No they do not . <p> Pondering wrote : <p> Aristotleded24 wrote : <p> So Quebec expects 1000 dead by the end of April in the best case scenario ? Where does that figure come from ? <p> Apparently it takes about a month to die so deaths still keep going up even as the number of cases goes down . <p> We 'll have to keep an eye on that for sure . So far actual numbers have turned out much better than even the most optimistic models projected that they would . If this trend continues , I suspect they will start to lose a great deal of public credibility . <p> Pondering wrote : <p> It is n't up to them it is up to the politicians and they are saying until there is a vaccine there will be lightening and tightening of restrictions assuming the expected waves occur . They may not but they probably will . Manufacturing will catch up on PPEs so if enough people use them that will help . <p> So then this is driven more by political objectives rather than actual medical science . <p> Pondering wrote : <p> Aristotleded24 wrote : <p> The other question is how long a time frame are we looking at ? One year ? Sure , you can come up with a large number of people who are expected to die , and that sounds scary . But lots of people are going to die in a one year time frame in any case because , tragic as it is when it happens , people will always die . And they 've modelled the prospect of hospitals being over-run because of covid 19 . Can they model how the number of women and children who die as a result of domestic abuse will increase ? Can they model how many more people will commit suicide brought on by the social distancing measures ? Can they model if crisis counselling services will be overwhelmed because of increased isolation ? Can they model if more people will die from cardiovascular disease from not exercising , or brought on by stress ? Can they model how addictive coping behaviours , like doing drugs , drinking , or smoking will increase as a result of the stress of these measures ? Will this not cause increased pressure on the health care system . <p> Probably yes but it does n't compare to the pressure of covid-19 patients because they are infectious and many are treated for a long time in ICU . <p> So like you , me , and everybody else , you 're just guessing here . This conjecture does n't seem to be based in fact at all . <p> But for more conjecture and guessing , Winnipeg has many social problems brought on by poverty , inequality , and racism , and this was the case even before coronavirus . If these restrictions continue and start having social costs , which group of citizens do you think is going to bear the brunt of this ? Do you know how easily our emergency and medical services would be overwhelmed if these restrictions led to rioting here in Winnipeg ? <p> Pondering wrote : <p> I 'm pretty sure they are not talking about measures this extreme continuing for that long . Some measures , like no festivals , may have to be in place longer . I know that Just for Laughs was hoping to move to fall but I doubt that will happen . The festivals for next year are now over a year away so it 's possible we can have them next year . Some people will go back to work but many will continue working from home where possible . <p> Some people will be quick to return to life as usual but many wo n't . Tourism will take years to recover . <p> Well we should try and get back to life as usual as soon as we can . What point is there to life if you ca n't go anywhere , interact with people ( no , virtual interaction with people through digital devices and screens does not count ) or do anything ? That is one thing I appreciate about how Quebec is handling the public relations and communications with this , as they are telling people that if we do these tough measures now , then it will be sooner when we can return to doing what we love . <p> " As the world deals with the Covid-19 pandemic , it is timely to reassess the nature of globalism . How should we think about trade , open borders and the financialization of the economy ? Have we reached peak globalism ? " ( Jeffrey Tucker , Danny Haiphong ) 
@@51631032 <h> Noah Feldman <p> It 's been almost a century since T.E . Lawrence and the Arab Revolt kicked the Ottomans out of Syria . Now the Turks are coming back , this time with U.S. air support , in a plan to establish a 60-mile-long buffer zone on the Syrian side of the border between the two countries . <p> If the creation of a new mini-state within the borders of a Middle Eastern state seems worrisome , that 's because it is . As the Israelis learned to their detriment in Lebanon in the 1980s and ' 90s , such semi-permanent security zones are costly to maintain and produce strange unintended consequences -- like the birth of Hezbollah . <p> Donald Trump 's anti-immigrant views have done a good deal for his presidential polling numbers . There 's also reason think he 's done the country a favor , by forcing politicians on the right to repudiate that anti-immigrant sentiment . <p> In Europe when such rhetoric rises , it 's bad news . Anti-immigrant politics are usually there to stay , and the xenophobia pushes the whole political scene rightward . Denmark is a textbook case . But in the U.S. , the opposite seems to be happening . <p> The fall of the Iraqi city of Ramadi to Islamic State is significant -- but not because of the strategic importance of the capital of the Anbar province . Rather , the failure of Iraq 's official security forces emphasizes a fundamental quandary facing the anti-Islamic State coalition . <p> If Islamic State is to be defeated , there must be effective ground troops . Right now , the only effective ground troops outside of Iraqi Kurdistan seem to be Shiite militias with close ties to Iran . <p> It was morally wrong for two men to attack an anti-Islam installation last weekend in Garland , Texas , and no one should mourn the death of these terrorists . But what about deliberately provoking the assault by staging a competition for the most insulting caricature of the Prophet Muhammad ? Was that morally wrong ? Or was it just a reasonable exercise of the right to free speech ? <p> Why wo n't any U.S. politician , official or contractor ever be prosecuted for torturing people ? That big question looms in the background of the just-released CIA report . <p> Until now , the conventional wisdom had been that the Central Intelligence Agency 's actions were essentially immunized from prosecution because the agency relied on opinions from the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice -- the so-called torture memos . <p> The report championed by Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California says that CIA interrogations went well beyond the techniques described to the Office of Legal Counsel and authorized as legal in its memos . If that 's true , then the interrogators essentially flouted even the counsel 's expansive and doubtful approval of enhanced interrogation techniques . So should n't somebody be held criminally responsible ? And if not , why not ? <p> When was the last time you heard of a grand jury decision causing a riot ? Well ... never . That 's because grand juries are obscure relics of past practice , not designed to bear the full weight of a politically and symbolically important decision like the nonprosecution of police officer Darren Wilson for the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson , Missouri . <p> The decision by St. Louis County Chief Prosecutor Robert McCulloch to put the issue neutrally before the grand jury was intended to create a sense of public legitimacy for whatever result followed , and also no doubt to deflect blame from the prosecutor 's own exercise of discretion . It failed on both counts -- and with good reason . <p> The American diplomat Edward Djerejian once famously remarked that if Islamists were democratically elected to office , the result might be " one man , one vote , one time . " Preliminary results from Tunisia 's second democratic election show that this concern was unwarranted , at least in Tunisia . <p> The Islamic democrats of Ennahda , who won a plurality in Tunisia 's first democratic vote in 2011 , appear to have finished second to the secular alternative , Nidaa Tounes . Far from clinging to power , Ennahda conceded defeat even before the results were final . " We have accepted this result , and congratulate the winner Nidaa Tounes , " a party official told Reuters . <p> On the surface , this summer 's Gaza war seemed like a repetition of what happened in 2012 . The rockets from Gaza into Israel , the bombing of Gaza by Israel , the mutual recriminations about who started it -- even the proportions of civilian and military casualties seem eerily similar . Small wonder that to many who care about Palestinians , Israelis or ( yes , it 's possible ) both , this summer 's events felt like an eternal return as imagined by Nietzsche : repetitive , circular , pointless . <p> In fact , though , this round of Gaza violence was different -- and its meaning for setting policy is correspondingly different as well . Hamas is in a very different strategic place than it was in 2012 . That war came because it seemed the Arab Spring might herald a new era of popular , even democratic Islamism . The 2014 episode happened because the Arab Spring has failed -- and because outside of tiny Tunisia , the hope for Arab democracy is essentially dead . <p> Two years ago , Hamas was riding high on the emerging power of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt . It hoped to replace Fatah as the democratically legitimate representative of the Palestinian people . It welcomed the fight with Israel as a way to enhance its negotiating position vis- ? -vis Fatah , and indeed Israel . By standing up to Israel , Hamas was taking a page from Hezbollah 's book , hoping to establish itself as a genuine , organized political-military entity that could absorb Israel 's vastly superior firepower and bounce back . <p> Would n't it be interesting to poll people in 100 countries and find out what prejudices they have ? Well , yes , if you have the resources . Unfortunately , the Anti-Defamation League , which has released a poll claiming to study anti-Semitism globally , did n't quite do that . <p> Instead of designing a neutral questionnaire that would compare anti-Jewish attitudes to negative attitudes about other religions or ethnicities , it asked a series of 11 questions that stacked the deck in favor of anti-Semitic answers . It then defined you as an anti-Semite if you answered yes to six of the 11 questions . <p> The results might tell you something about relative degrees of anti-Semitism in different places -- surprise : Saudis have a more negative attitude toward Jews than Danes do . But other than the rhetorical effect of announcing that a quarter of the world 's people are anti-Jewish , the poll offers precious little in the way of actual knowledge . <p> Every time you think the war on terror ca n't get any weirder , it does . <p> In the latest manifestation , White House officials are leaking to the news media that they are considering whether to use drone strikes to kill an unnamed American in Pakistan . This behaviour is bizarre as a matter of national security : If a terrorist really poses an imminent threat , how exactly does the administration have time to test the political waters before taking him out ? <p> But it is the inevitable result of a more fundamental , long-term problem with the U.S. 's use of drone strikes . President Barack Obama 's administration has kept secret the legal justification for such strikes on Americans , as well as the internal procedures to be followed in making the decision . The secrecy shrouds the drone program in a basic sense of illegitimacy . No wonder the administration feels it ca n't just kill our enemies , but needs to send up trial balloons first : The whole program is operating under a bad legal conscience . <p> The Barack Obama administration is shocked -- shocked ! that Afghan President Hamid Karzai was secretly negotiating with the Taliban . The previously undisclosed negotiations certainly explain what White House adviser John Podesta recently called Karzai 's " erratic " behavior in refusing to negotiate an agreement to keep U.S. forces in the country after 2014 . <p> But what , exactly , is so terrible about Karzai negotiating separately with the same Taliban that the U.S. has repeatedly tried and failed to engage ? In fact , although the Taliban are very likely playing the outgoing president , he is exactly the person who should be trying to negotiate an entrance to Afghan politics for the Taliban that would not involve mass killings of people who sided with the U.S. <p> No doubt Karzai is trying to save his own skin . But there is at least a chance he could save the lives of many other Afghans , too . <p> The news that Tunisia 's competing political factions have broken months of logjam and appointed a technocrat as interim prime minister sets the stage for a year-end review of the events that have followed the Arab Spring . <p> Keeping up the seasonal metaphor , one could say Tunisia offers a hint of Indian summer in what is otherwise a chilly autumn . The Tunisian economy is shaky , the public is frustrated , and two prominent leftists have been assassinated by Salafists . Yet democracy is still functioning , and a multiparty deal facilitating completion of a new constitution is within reach . <p> While Tunisia has followed a slow , unsteady constitutional process , Libya has n't really gotten started . It 's in a holding pattern , with a site for constitutional negotiations chosen but no delegates elected and ethnic minorities threatening a boycott . <p> Egypt , meanwhile has been the focus of altogether too much action . The third new constitution in three years has just been drafted , this time by military authorities who seem to have sidelined democracy for good . Depressing as this is , the situation in Syria -- full-blown civil war with no end in sight -- is worse . <p> What do these developments teach us about how democracy forms -- and how democratic countries can encourage it ? <p> Now there 's a sentence you wo n't have heard in the days since his death , or at his memorial . Yet it 's incontrovertibly true that after centuries of being robbed of possibly the greatest mineral wealth the world has ever known , not to mention decades of being repressed by apartheid , black South Africans got almost no compensation for what should rightfully have been theirs when the old regime was swept away for the new South Africa . <p> Indeed , the basic deal Mandela struck from prison with F.W. de Klerk , and which was subsequently enshrined in the South African constitution , essentially guaranteed the existing property rights of white South Africans in exchange for an end to apartheid . <p> For whites , the deal made sense . Apartheid could not be maintained forever against international pressure and internal resistance . The odds of holding onto the material benefits of the oppressive traditional system were much higher with black African enfranchisement than without it . A successful revolution would lead to the dispossession of whites , just as it had in almost every other corner of formerly colonial sub-Saharan Africa . What Mandela was promising was more than half a loaf . It was a whole loaf of wealth with a proportionately small loaf of political power . <p> What does Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig have in common with Egyptian generalissimo Abdel Fattah al-Sisi ? Nothing -- except for the inclination to declare a state of exception and throw the rule book out the window . <p> The Arab Spring started in Tunisia , and within a few weeks it had spread to neighbouring Egypt . Today , two and a half years later , Tunisia is close to ratifying a democratic constitution with well over two-thirds ' support in the constituent assembly . Egypt , as the world knows , is in the throes of a military coup that removed the democratically elected president . <p> The obvious -- and crucial -- question is : What 's the difference ? Why has democratic constitutionalism worked relatively well in one North African Arab country while it has crashed and burned in another ? And what will the answer tell us about the future of democracy in the Arabic-speaking world , from Libya to Syria and beyond ? <p> You might think the answer has something to do with Islam . But remarkably enough , it does n't . In both Tunisia and Egypt , the first democratic elections produced significant pluralities favouring Islamic democratic parties . Ennahda , the Islamist movement whose political party won in Tunisia , is ideologically similar to the Muslim Brotherhood and is a kind of associate of the Brotherhood 's loosely affiliated internationale . Both parties believe in combining Islamic values with democratic practice . Both accept a political role for women and equal citizenship for non-Muslims , even if in practice they are both socially conservative and seek the gradual , voluntary Islamization of society . <p> The framers of the U.S. Constitution feared that democracy could devolve into rule of the mob . Events in Egypt are a reminder of why that concern was justified . <p> Essentially the same pro-democracy activists who enabled Hosni Mubarak to be removed from power in February 2011 have now done the same to his democratically elected successor , Mohammed Morsi . In both cases it was the protesters who made the government vulnerable . And in both cases it was the army that delivered the coup de grace in the form of a coup d'etat . <p> Even acknowledging that Morsi and his Muslim Brotherhood-backed party did a poor job over their year in power , failing to win over opponents or broaden their base of support , the latest coup is a tragic setback for democracy , constitutionalism and the rule of law . <p> The first protests of the Arab Spring were calls to replace a dictator who had no democratic right to govern . The protests were inspiring not just because they said " enough " to a bad system , but also because the protesters aspired to replace that bad system with democracy . Many of the original protesters were themselves secular or wanted a secular government . <p> But by calling for free elections , they opened themselves to the possibility that the majority of Egyptians would n't agree with them . That , in essence , is democracy : The majority gets to choose the government it wishes , subject to the guarantee of minority rights . <p> Someone steals your most sensitive secrets . Then , planning a face-to-face meeting , he says he wants to develop " a new type " of relationship with you . At what point , exactly , would you start thinking he was planning to drink your milkshake ? <p> Ahead of the first summit meeting between U.S. President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China on June 7 , the two nations are on the brink of geopolitical conflict . As its officials acknowledge , China is a classic rising power , poised to challenge U.S. dominance . In historical terms , the sole global superpower never gives up without a fight . <p> " China 's peaceful rise " was a useful slogan , while it lasted , for China 's leaders . " America 's peaceful decline " will get no one elected , whether Democrat or Republican . Geopolitics is almost always a zero-sum game . If China can copy or work around U.S. missile defenses , fighter jets and drones , the U.S. 's global position will be eroded -- and the gains will go directly to China . <p> Is democracy in Egypt over before it started ? Skeptics abroad and protesters in Egypt think so after President Mohammed Morsi 's unilateral decree that his decisions are not subject to judicial review by the nation 's constitutional court . <p> Lost in the hoopla over the U.S. Supreme Court 's ruling upholding the Affordable Care Act is a fascinating and important free-speech decision that is one of the oddest in the already strange history of the First Amendment . 
