@@51606407 <h> Another pandemic of Covid-19 misinformation <p> The spread of Covid-19 has been matched by the spread of misinformation and conspiracy theories about the virus <p> Access to and free flow of accurate information is critical during a pandemic to develop and implement effective and swift strategies that will protect human life , to modify those strategies based on the response , and arm civilians with information to protect themselves , their families , and the community . <p> Unfortunately , the world at large has witnessed the whole spectrum of " misinformation " from fake news on Covid-19 , to official denials of the nature and gravity of the threat , to governments deliberately spreading misinformation to control narratives . <p> If there is one right that has been violated time and again , it is our right to information . <p> Article 39 of the Constitution of Bangladesh provides the constitutional basis of the right to information , which being part of the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression and freedom of the press . <p> In other words , freedom of expression not only includes the freedom to express one 's thoughts , ideas , opinions , and information , but also the right to be informed , subject to reasonable restrictions imposed by law . <p> Over the last five months , we have seen different manifestations of the violations of the right to information and freedom of the press . <p> In February , the World Health Organization warned us about the " massive infodemic " accompanying the Covid-19 outbreak that " makes it hard for people to find trustworthy sources and reliable guidance when they need it " and threatens effective response . <p> Donald Trump 's statement that " anybody who wants a test can get a test " turned out to be a " cruel hoax " as aptly described by Fareed Zakaria . <p> Thailand and Nigeria arrested journalists after they reported on the spread of the pandemic or criticized their government 's response . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists in Cambodia has documented the arrests of at least 17 people for sharing information about the virus . Venezuela , Iran , and Gaza arrested , detained , threatened , and assaulted their journalists after reporting on the pandemic . <p> Ethiopia shut down the internet in its Oromia region . Chinese journalists have fought back with hard-hitting exposes describing government cover-ups and failures in the health care system . <p> Our very own government 's response at various times left us wondering if it was sheer incompetence of public officials or deliberate dissemination of misinformation that made them say the things they said . <p> Our Health and Family Welfare minister declared on March 30 , 2020 , that " our country is now safe and doing well . " Our Information minister stated that Bangladesh is better prepared to prevent coronavirus than developed countries . <p> Yet , we continue to read newspaper reports , we read , hear , and watch harrowing social media anecdotes and accounts of friends and family members of being unable to reach IEDCR on its hotlines , of being denied testing and treatment by health care providers , of dying with no medical attention . <p> On March 19 , 2020 , the monitors for freedom of expression and of media for the United Nations , the Inter-American Commission for Human Rights , and the Representative on Freedom of the Media of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe in a joint statement called on governments to promote and protect access to and the free flow of information during this pandemic by : <p> Providing truthful information in accessible formats <p> Ensuring access to fastest and broadest possible internet service and refrain from blocking <p> Ensuring the right of access to information by robust implementation of Right to Information laws and protecting the work of journalists <p> Addressing disinformation <p> Limiting use of tools of surveillance technology to track the spread of the virus in view of individual rights of privacy , protection of journalistic sources and non-discrimination <p> According to the Global Health Security Index , Bangladesh ranks 132 out of 195 countries in the category of " health . " Bangladesh being far from well prepared to tackle a pandemic of this nature , there is a critical and urgent need here for access to information if we are to avoid a high mortality rate . <p> To facilitate the free flow of information to the people , our government must now go all out to protect the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech and expression . <p> To tackle misinformation and disseminate authoritative health advice , all governments , the media , and social media companies need to work together with WHO and other health authorities . <p> Care must be taken to ensure that the tackling of misinformation is not used as a pretext for repressive laws and policies . As for official denials and withholding of information , all governments must keep in mind that this will only serve as fuel to this pandemic . <p> Barrister Rashna Imam , an Oxford scholar , is an advocate of the Supreme Court of Bangladesh and the Managing Partner of Akhtar Imam &amp; Associates . 
@@51636345 <p> Coronavirus Bangladesh : Death toll jumps to 131 ; total cases now 4,689 <p> Coronavirus Bangladesh : 4 more recover as taking total number of recovery to 112 <p> Coronavirus Bangladesh : 3,686 samples tested in 24 hours <p> FDA warns of heart risks with Trump-promoted malaria drug <p> Coronavirus Hotline Numbers : 01944333222 , 16263 , 333 <p> World News <p> 24 April , 2020 12:12:08 PM <h> Muslims start Ramadan under lockdown as US beefs up virus support <p> Independent Online/AFP <p> Muslims across the world began marking the holy month of Ramadan under unprecedented coronavirus lockdowns on Friday as the US added another half a trillion dollars to its already-massive support package to help its pandemic-ravaged economy . <p> The virus has upended life around the planet as nations try to stop the spread of the disease that has so far claimed nearly 190,000 lives , infected close to 2.7 million people and hammered the global economy . <p> Ramadan spirits have been dampened by movement restrictions in Muslim communities from Southeast Asia to the Middle East and Africa , with bans on prayer in mosques and large gatherings of families and friends to break the daily fast -- a centrepiece of the month . <p> But despite the coronavirus threat , clerics and conservatives in many countries including Bangladesh , Pakistan and Indonesia -- the world 's largest Muslim-majority nation -- have pushed back against social distancing rules , refusing to stop prayer gatherings in mosques . <p> Several thousand people attended evening prayers on Thursday at the biggest mosque in the capital of Indonesia 's conservative Aceh province , and there were similar scenes at many sites in Pakistan . <p> The World Health Organization has called for a stop to some Ramadan activities to lower the risk of infections , and authorities in several countries have explicitly warned of the threat from large religious gatherings . <p> There have already been explosions of coronavirus cases from three separate Islamic congregations in Malaysia , Pakistan and India since the virus first emerged late last year in China . <p> Distancing measures and the severe economic impact of the pandemic has also meant many charitable activities during Ramadan , especially food distribution and other donations , have been hit hard . <p> Salah Jibril , an unemployed Palestinian man who lives with his wife and six children in a cramped two-bedroom apartment in the Gaza Strip , said he was not sure how his family would cope without Ramadan donations . <p> " The markets and mosques are closed . The good people who give us money or aid each Ramadan are facing a tough situation , " he said . <p> " This is the hardest Ramadan we have faced . We do n't know how we will cope . " <p> - Massive economic stimulus - <p> The economic devastation wreaked by lockdowns that have half the planet indoors is huge , with the world facing its worst downturn since the Great Depression . <p> US lawmakers covered their faces with masks and voted in small groups to approve a $483 billion stimulus plan , on top of the $2.2 trillion package already enacted . <p> The money will back small businesses on the brink of bankruptcy , and hard-pressed hospitals , as the American economy reels with more than 26 million people losing their jobs since the pandemic hit . <p> The United States is now the worst-affected nation in the world , with about 50,000 coronavirus deaths . <p> In Europe , leaders haggled by video conference over their own package that could top one trillion euros , as the European Central Bank chief warned of the risk of " acting too little , too late " . <p> The 27-nation European Union agreed to ask the bloc 's executive arm to come up with a rescue plan by May 6 , sources told AFP . <p> The fight has reopened the wounds of the 2009 economic crisis in debt-laden European southern states such as Spain and Italy , both badly hit by the pandemic , demanding help to get back on their feet . <p> Richer northern countries like Germany and the Netherlands say they are ready to help for now , but insist they will not pool debt with Mediterranean governments they accuse of profligacy . <p> - Race for vaccine - <p> While the disease appears to be peaking in Europe and the United States , other nations are still in the early stages of the fight . <p> The fight has reopened the wounds of the 2009 economic crisis in debt-laden European southern states such as Spain and Italy , both badly hit by the pandemic , demanding help to get back on their feet . <p> Richer northern countries like Germany and the Netherlands say they are ready to help for now , but insist they will not pool debt with Mediterranean governments they accuse of profligacy . <p> - Race for vaccine - <p> While the disease appears to be peaking in Europe and the United States , other nations are still in the early stages of the fight . <p> The World Health Organization has warned that strict measures should remain until there is a viable treatment or vaccine . <p> The race is on around the world to develop one , with Oxford University launching a human trial of a potential vaccine on Thursday . Germany announced similar trials will start by next week . <p> In a briefing at the White House , scientists said they had found that the virus was quickly destroyed by sunlight , raising hopes that the pandemic could ease as the northern hemisphere summer approaches . <p> " Our most striking observation to date is the powerful effect that solar light appears to have on killing the virus , both surfaces and in the air , " said William Bryan , science and technology adviser to the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security . <p> Their findings , however , have not yet been released and therefore not reviewed by independent experts . <p> The rapid pace of development efforts is in part down to the vast numbers of patients that have overwhelmed healthcare systems in the developed world and in poorer countries . <p> In Brazil , where intensive care units at hospitals have been slammed , Dr Fernanda Gulinelli said this " is a new chapter in medicine that we are having to write on the go , and we do n't know what the next sentence will be " . <p> HM <h> Muslims start Ramadan under lockdown as US beefs up virus support <p> Independent Online/AFP <p> Muslims across the world began marking the holy month of Ramadan under unprecedented coronavirus lockdowns on Friday as the US added another half a trillion dollars to its already-massive support package to help its pandemic-ravaged economy . The virus has upended life around the planet as nations try to stop the spread of the disease that has so far claimed nearly 190,000 lives , infected close to 2.7 million people and hammered the global economy . Ramadan spirits have been dampened by movement restrictions in Muslim communities from Southeast Asia to the Middle East and Africa , with bans on prayer in mosques and large gatherings of families and friends to break the daily fast -- a centrepiece of the month . But despite the coronavirus threat , clerics and conservatives in many countries including Bangladesh , Pakistan and Indonesia -- the worlds largest Muslim-majority nation -- have pushed back against social distancing rules , refusing to stop prayer gatherings in mosques . Several thousand people attended evening prayers on Thursday at the biggest mosque in the capital of Indonesias conservative Aceh province , and there were similar scenes at many sites in Pakistan . The World Health Organization has called for a stop to some Ramadan activities to lower the risk of infections , and authorities in several countries have explicitly warned of the threat from large religious gatherings . There have already been explosions of coronavirus cases from three separate Islamic congregations in Malaysia , Pakistan and India since the virus first emerged late last year in China . Distancing measures and the severe economic impact of the pandemic has also meant many charitable activities during Ramadan , especially food distribution and other donations , have been hit hard . Salah Jibril , an unemployed Palestinian man who lives with his wife and six children in a cramped two-bedroom apartment in the Gaza Strip , said he was not sure how his family would cope without Ramadan donations . The markets and mosques are closed . The good people who give us money or aid each Ramadan are facing a tough situation , he said . This is the hardest Ramadan we have faced . We do nt know how we will cope . - Massive economic stimulus - The economic devastation wreaked by lockdowns that have half the planet indoors is huge , with the world facing its worst downturn since the Great Depression . US lawmakers covered their faces with masks and voted in small groups to approve a $483 billion stimulus plan , on top of the $2.2 trillion package already enacted . The money will back small businesses on the brink of bankruptcy , and hard-pressed hospitals , as the American economy reels with more than 26 million people losing their jobs since the pandemic hit . The United States is now the worst-affected nation in the world , with about 50,000 coronavirus deaths . In Europe , leaders haggled by video conference over their own package that could top one trillion euros , as the European Central Bank chief warned of the risk of acting too little , too late . The 27-nation European Union agreed to ask the blocs executive arm to come up with a rescue plan by May 6 , sources told AFP . The fight has reopened the wounds of the 2009 economic crisis in debt-laden European southern states such as Spain and Italy , both badly hit by the pandemic , demanding help to get back on their feet . Richer northern countries like Germany and the Netherlands say they are ready to help for now , but insist they will not pool debt with Mediterranean governments they accuse of profligacy. - Race for vaccine - While the disease appears to be peaking in Europe and the United States , other nations are still in the early stages of the fight . The fight has reopened the wounds of the 2009 economic crisis in debt-laden European southern states such as Spain and Italy , both badly hit by the pandemic , demanding help to get back on their feet . Richer northern countries like Germany and the Netherlands say they are ready to help for now , but insist they will not pool debt with Mediterranean governments they accuse of profligacy. - Race for vaccine - While the disease appears to be peaking in Europe and the United States , other nations are still in the early stages of the fight . The World Health Organization has warned that strict measures should remain until there is a viable treatment or vaccine . The race is on around the world to develop one , with Oxford University launching a human trial of a potential vaccine on Thursday . Germany announced similar trials will start by next week . In a briefing at the White House , scientists said they had found that the virus was quickly destroyed by sunlight , raising hopes that the pandemic could ease as the northern hemisphere summer approaches . Our most striking observation to date is the powerful effect that solar light appears to have on killing the virus , both surfaces and in the air , said William Bryan , science and technology adviser to the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security . Their findings , however , have not yet been released and therefore not reviewed by independent experts . The rapid pace of development efforts is in part down to the vast numbers of patients that have overwhelmed healthcare systems in the developed world and in poorer countries . In Brazil , where intensive care units at hospitals have been slammed , Dr Fernanda Gulinelli said this is a new chapter in medicine that we are having to write on the go , and we do nt know what the next sentence will be . HM <p> Cases of the new coronavirus are overwhelming hospitals , morgues and cemeteries across Brazil as Latin America 's largest nation veers closer to becoming one of the world 's pandemic hot spots . Medical officials in Rio de Janeiro ... 
@@51650331 <h> Closure of Al-Aqsa mosque ' declaration of war ' : Abbas <h> Closure of Al-Aqsa mosque ' declaration of war ' : Abbas <h> UN slams Israel abuses , demands Gaza war probe <p> Afp , Jerusalem <p> Israel yesterday ordered the closure of the Al-Aqsa compound to all visitors in an unprecedented move , drawing a furious response from Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas , who described it as " a declaration of war . " <p> The attack sent tensions in the city soaring to a new high , following months of almost daily clashes between Palestinians and Israeli police in Jerusalem 's occupied eastern sector . <p> " This dangerous Israeli escalation is a declaration of war on the Palestinian people and its sacred places and on the Arab and Islamic nation , " he said through his spokesman Nabil Abu Rudeina , warning it would only fuel " more tension and instability . " <p> Meanwhile , a UN human rights watchdog yesterday urged Israel to respect the rights of Palestinians , and demanded the country probe violations committed during repeated assaults on Gaza . <p> With tensions soaring in East Jerusalem , and months of almost daily clashes , the UN Human Rights Committee yesterday published conclusions from its review earlier this month of Israel 's human rights record . <p> The committee lamented continued punitive demolitions of Palestinian homes in the West Bank , excessive force by the Israel Defence Forces and decried reports of the use of torture and ill-treatment of Palestinians , including children , in Israeli detention facilities . <p> It also slammed the " continuing confiscation and expropriation of Palestinian land and restrictions on access of Palestinians in the Occupied Palestinian Territory , including East Jerusalem . " <p> The body , which oversees global rules on civil and political rights , and submits governments to regular reviews , also voiced concern over alleged human rights abuses during three Israeli military operations in Gaza since late 2008 , including the nearly two-month war this summer that killed nearly 2,200 mainly civilian Palestinians and 73 people in Israel , mostly soldiers . <p> And it criticised Israel 's continuing blockade of Gaza , lamenting that the blockade continues to " negatively impact Palestinians ' access to all basic and life-saving services such as food , health , electricity , water and sanitation. " 
