@@31755111 <h> Lessons from another lockdown <p> The University of Auckland 's Nicholas Rowe draws some parallels between the restrictions in West Bank and Gaza Strip during the second intifada and the current lockdown in New Zealand <p> Covid-19 and New Zealand 's national lockdown means online teaching has become the new ' normal ' at the University of Auckland . <p> The process of guiding our staff towards remote learning has brought back many memories of my former life in the Occupied Palestinian Territories during the second intifada and provided invaluable experience on how to cope with the shock of sudden change and adapt to it . <p> I lived in the West Bank for eight years , from 2000 to 2008 , and spent months at a time under curfew and closure by the Israeli military . This meant all schools , universities and businesses would be shut , movement between cities and towns was heavily restricted , no public gatherings were allowed and for most of the day people were confined inside their homes . <p> While the causes and context of the restrictions in West Bank and Gaza Strip during the second intifada were markedly different from the current lockdown in New Zealand , there are notable parallels . These parallels have prompted how I have approached my own preparations for this pandemic lockdown , and in how I have guided my Faculty 's approach to this sudden shift . <p> First , this has involved anticipating that the psychological impact of this sudden shutdown will outweigh the damage wrought by the pandemic itself . In Palestine , there was a sudden , pervasive lethargy ; a sense of being overwhelmed , disorientated and despondent as a result of the abrupt change to daily rhythms . <p> In New Zealand , we might consider our mental health as at equal risk as our physical health , particularly as the inevitable tragedy of the pandemic makes itself felt . As activities and thoughts that previously provided us with meaning and purpose lose their value , we can become more and more disengaged from each other and our social and professional responsibilities . <p> While platitudes abound that this crisis will inevitably bring us together in solidarity , the reality is that it can also pull us apart , or bring us together in a way that fosters totalitarian regimes of intolerance . <p> In Palestine , a key to moving beyond this experience of lethargy was through social engagement . As our values and meanings are socially constructed , it is essential that we maintain connection and vibrant discussion during massive social upheavals . While these discussions ostensibly allow us to effectively organise as a group , more importantly they allow us to share and affirm new sets of meanings and purposes in a radically transformed world . <p> In Palestine , I was socialised through organising community arts activities for children in refugee camps , with other artists working in Ramallah . In New Zealand during Covid-19 , this socialisation has involved coordinating online teaching plans with the teachers in my faculty to serve the remote learning needs of students . <p> Two key themes have emerged during this process : the importance of communication and permission to change . <p> The disruption to a daily routine can be a deeply alienating experience , leaving so many value-based uncertainties : what should or should not happen ? Feeling that it is okay to communicate this bewilderment to others ( students , teachers , peers , managers ) is a central part of the process of adapting to the new reality . These expressions will not always be well-managed . If we can recognise that people are expressing themselves in odd ways as a process of adaptation , rather than as a response to our own behaviour , the more confident we can feel in the need to maintain social bonds . <p> Providing permission is another key step in adapting to a new reality . In Palestine , this involved changing arts practices to suit the context of a military incursion . In New Zealand , this has involved significantly shifting modalities of teaching and assessment to suit distance learning . Feeling permitted to make these changes , and to freely experiment with them , can be very important . <p> Within an institution like the University of Auckland , in which the stability of the curriculum and assessment is deeply entwined with the institutional identity , such permission and agency needs to be actively promoted to staff . Teachers and students will want to be assured that changes can be really valuable , and that not every change equals a " loss " to the system . <p> Finally , adaptation to a new reality requires iterative assurance , which means repeating information in new ways to people , as they grapple with a natural inclination to keep denying that the change has happened . This denial can manifest repeatedly in small ways , as details about the new reality continue to emerge . Being patient with these processes of realisation can allow everyone to feel they are travelling through this experience together , and that no one is getting left behind . <p> While platitudes abound that this crisis will inevitably bring us together in solidarity , the reality is that it can also pull us apart , or bring us together in a way that fosters totalitarian regimes of intolerance . If we really seek to maintain our complex , diverse and pluralist ways of communing , practising communication and promoting a permission to adapt will be essential . <p> Credible information is crucial in a crisis . <p> The pandemic is pushing us into an unknown and uncertain future . As the crisis unfolds the need for accurate , balanced and thorough reporting will be vital . Newsroom 's team of journalists is working hard to bring you the facts but , now more than ever , we need your support . <p> Reader donations are critical to what we do . If you can help us , please click the button to ensure we can continue to provide quality independent journalism you can trust . <h> Comments <p> Newsroom does not allow comments directly on this website . We invite all readers who wish to discuss a story or leave a comment to visit us on Twitter or Facebook . We also welcome your news tips and feedback via email : contact@newsroom.co.nz . Thank you . 
@@31763487 <h> Israel 's daily toll on Palestinian life , limb , liberty and land <p> TOPSHOT - A Palestinian sanitary department worker sprays disinfectant on March 16 , 2020 around the refugee camp of Aida , with Israel 's controversial separation barrier in the background , in Bethlehem which has been under lockdown for more than a week due to the novel coronavirus epidemic . - The holy West Bank city of Bethlehem is in lockdown after the first Palestinian cases of the deadly coronavirus were discovered earlier this month . ( Photo by Musa Al SHAER / AFP ) ( Photo by MUSA AL SHAER/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The first quarter of 2020 ended with a total of 407 Israeli Gaza ceasefire violations , to which the Palestinian Resistance responded with 59 of their own . From January to March , six Palestinians died in Gaza as a result of Israeli aggression and there were 66 Israeli air strikes on the enclave . In the West Bank and East Jerusalem , Israeli Army population control and Occupation settler violence increased . Palestinians endured ever more raids , destruction of homes , home invasions and crippling acts of agricultural and economic sabotage . <p> Thanks to US President Donald Trump , funding to UNWRA has been cut , many schools in Palestine have been forced to close and public health is under ever greater threat . The Israeli Occupation is enabling the spread of Covid-19 in the West Bank with Israeli bulldozers countering attempts to set up isolation tents and clinics . While Israel prevents the setting up of clinics for Palestinians in the land it militarily Occupies , fanatical Israeli settlers are encouraged tobuild settlements and seizeincreasingly more land , while attacking Palestinian farmers and ruining their crops . <p> Reports of Israeli violence in the first two days of April offered little sign of any let up . Those two days saw yet another Israeli Army Gaza incursion , the Israeli Navy continued to pursue and open fire on Palestinian fishing boats and , as always , Palestinian farmland came under fire from Israeli Army position behind the Green Line . Israel also committed another six Gaza ceasefire violations during April 1 and 2 . In just those first two days of April , Israeli forces seizeda villager 's mobile home , bulldozed a Palestinian olive grove andopened fire on Covid-19 emergency workers who were checking the risk of any virus spread . Israeli troops invaded and robbed a Palestinian Minister in his home and an armed Occupation settler threatened Palestinian shepherds . The behaviour of raiding settler militants also spread fear of Covid-19 infection among Palestinian villagers . There were the usual Israeli Army night home invasions in a UN refugee camp as well as infive Palestiniantowns and villages . One Palestinian died from serious wounds in Nablus , another was beaten and injured by Israeli police and there were 11Israeli acts of agricultural/economic sabotage against Palestinians . Finally , three young Palestinians , aged 15 to 17 , were abducted , at night , by Israeli soldiers . <p> As a shocked and reeling world faces and combats the onset of the unprecedented Covid-19 viral pandemic , we are all having to face a reality that has been a scourge for Palestinians both now -- and for over five decades ! We , too , are now having a taste of what it is like to be confined to our homes and denied freedom of movement . Of course , for Palestinians this results from brutal foreign military dictatorship . The callous Israeli regime is maintaining its discriminatory rule , regardless of the new **29;110;TOOLONG , deliberately heightening the level of fear and insecurity for the people of Palestine . <p> Covid-19 has arrived in Gaza where , with an undermined and weakened health system , nearly two million people have , for 13 years , struggled to survive under an Israeli-imposed land , air and sea blockade in one of the world 's most densely populated regions . In 2012 , the UN predicted that Gaza would be uninhabitable by 2020 . The need to demand that Israel put an end to this blockade isunarguablyurgent . Why the silence and inaction ? <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> In the Occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem , the Israeli Army continues to suppress Palestinians , destroying their homes and displacing families.Late last month itdestroyed a clinic under construction , along with water pipelines and solar panels needed to provideurgently-needed treatment.Israeli forcesdistribute destruction orders on homes , not only in the West Bank and East Jerusalem but also on those belonging to Bedouin citizens of Israel in the Negev/Naqab . <p> Daily news reports from Occupied Palestine reveal a mounting increase in the number and severity of Jewish settler attacks on Palestinian homes , agriculture and livelihoods , often with Israeli Army complicity . Just in the last few days , the process towards annexation of the Jordan Valley has seen three more settlement outposts established there . Towards the end of March , the Israeli Governmentapproved the construction of yet more settlement units , in violation of international law , in other West Bank areas . <p> As we fight the deadly virus sweeping around the world , awareness of our shared humanity ought to become paramount . The international complicity of governments that have allowed , and even assisted , Israel 's settler-colonialism to continue should be denounced as intolerable . The Fourth Geneva Convention places an incontrovertible duty upon Israel to protect the indigenous Palestinian population whose land it Occupies . The destruction of people 's homes , displacement of population andseizure of land are not justinhuman , they are war crimes . Israel is obliged , under international law , to affordfull and necessary access to health care for the Occupied and blockaded Gaza population . The UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination'slatest reportrecognises that Israel hasimposed legislation that discriminate against Palestinian.An appeal by the Israeli NGO , Zochrot , reminds us that " Covid-19 is a fresh wake up call for us to address the rooted problems and historical yet continuous injustices that underlie our political system.We know from history that the poor and oppressed bear the brunt of epidemics and disasters , and thus the danger of this virus for Palestinians is of grave concern . " <p> On 22 March , the Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa sent a letter to the Prime Ministerurging our own Government to take effective political action to back up its annual votes at the UN for Israel to end both its military rule over West Bank Palestinians and its blockade of Gaza . The only acknowledgement of the letter was advice that it had been forwarded to the Minister of Foreign Affairs , Winston Peters . It is sad that Jacinda herself did not feel sufficient desire to answer the appeal especially since , even though her Foreign Affairs Ministerhas consequently been written to with a request for a response there has , to date , been no answer from him.Last year it tookWinston over a month to sendus a bland and mealy-mouthed replythat expressed little genuine humanitarian concern . We must , nonetheless , still hope that he will yet respond to thePSNAwith the humanitarianism and respect for international law that the Palestinian people rightly deserve ! <p> Leslie Bravery is a Londoner with vivid World War Two memories of the Nazi blitz on his home town . In 1947/1948 His father explained to him what was happening to the Palestinians thus : " Any ideology or political movement that creates refugees in the process of realising its ambitions must be inhuman and should be opposed and condemned as unacceptable . " What followed confirmed this assessment of the Zionist entity a hundredfold . Now a retired flamenco guitarist , with a lifelong interest in the tragedy of what happened to the Palestinian people , he tries to publicise their plight . Because the daily injustices they suffer barely get a mention in the mainstream news media , Leslie edits/compiles a daily newsletter , In Occupied Palestine , for the Palestine Human Rights Campaign . These days , to preserve his sanity , he enjoys taking part in a drama group whenever possible ! <h> 3 COMMENTS <p> Israel -- a small country ; a HUGE BLOOD-STAINED land on planet Earth . " Never again " was the call of many Jewish people after WW2 ended . " AGAIN &amp; AGAIN " is the demand of many -- both Jewish &amp; " goy " planet-wide re the denial of all rights of the true people of Palestine ( mistitled Israel ) are the Palestinians . People who have n't read any of his books would do well ( IMO ) to read Ilan Pappe 's writings . <p> Where is the jewish voice in NZ condemning this bloodbath and illegal theft of land and dignity . It is nowhere to be heard . Because of that silence one can only assume that NZ jewish community supports the Illegal hegemony of Israel . <p> I find that many friends have less regard for Jews as a group because of the lack of condemnation for Israeli racism , genocide and inhuman greed . I can see that continuing as it is painful to watch the inhumanity metered out to Palestinian natives by the interloper Israeli invaders . Much of the world is feeling similarly against Israeli/Jewish progressive annexation of Palestinian territory and so mounting hatred of what Israel /Jews are doing must be expected as a natural consequence . <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31765151 <p> Peter Bale is a London-based journalist and editor and who has worked for the Wellington Evening Post , Reuters , the FT Group , The Times of London and CNN Europe . He is working with Newsroom while stranded near Auckland . <h> Overseas Wrap : Johnson in intensive care <p> UK PM put into intensive care ; US death toll over 10k ; Trump tweets about ' fake news ' as New York buries dead in parks ; Germany and Israel tighten lockdowns <p> Boris in intensive care : Shortly after Downing Street reported him to be in " good spirits " , BBC political editor Laura Kuensberg tweeted that Prime Minister Boris Johnson " has been taken to intensive care " . Control is now likely to shift for the duration of his incapacity to Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab . <p> In The Guardian 's rolling coverage , it reported : " The prime minister is understood to be conscious and to have been moved as a precaution in case he needs ventilation . " ( The scurrilous but often ultimately correct political news site Guido Fawkes earlier said it was checking whether Johnson had pneumonia as a child ) . <p> Deadly numbers game hides as much as it reveals : The death toll in the United States , the best-reported-on epicenter of Covid-19 is now beyond 10,000 people . Nearly 350,000 cases have been reported in the US as of early today New Zealand time , according to the Johns Hopkins University Covid-19 tracker . Deaths in the US are reported at the state level , so The Washington Posttracker is handy and shows 10,335 as I write this and it 'll be more by the time we publish it . <p> The Surgeon General forecast " the hardest and saddest week of most Americans ' lives " which contrasted withPresident Donald Trump 's upbeat , tweeting " light at the end of the tunnel . " ( As the old joke goes : " Yes , it 's a train ! " <p> Surges and rebounds : In the rest of the world there are signs of slowing death or infection rates in some of the hot spots such as Italy and Spain and France . Yet there is a state of emergency about to be declared in Japan , and Indonesia and Singapore have reported a surge , as has Russia . More on those deeper looks , below . <p> Hubei = New York now : Total Covid-19 cases reported by Johns Hopkins are 1,309,439 with 72,638 deaths . Italy still tops the list of dead for now with 16,523 . Remember , Hubei , the Chinese province where this all started , has an official death toll of 3,212 - just about the number now registered only in New York . <p> US crisis marked by partisan brawling as deaths rise : Donald Trump clearly sees his daily televised briefing and his florid Twitter stream , lapped up and re-broadcast by his followers , as a huge political device and advantage . Despite the darkly comedic moments the briefings provide the sentient , Trump knows he is going direct in what is an election year . <p> Trump quadruples down : As New York authorities acknowledged contingency plans to bury the Covid-19 dead in city parks , Trump tweeted : " My Press Conferences are vital . They are reaching millions of people that are not being told the truth , &amp; have n't been for years ( Witch-Hunts , Fake News ) ! " <p> Quack , Quack : Trump then took a moment to attack The Washington Post and The New York Times which have been forensic in their coverage of errors , missteps , denialism and obfuscation by Trump and his administration from dismissing it as no worse than flu to promoting quack medical solutions . <p> ' Buy subscriptions instead ' : " Advertising in the Failing New York Times is WAY down . Washington Post is not much better . I ca n't say whether this is because they are Fake News sources of information , to a level that few can understand , or the Virus is just plain beating them up . Fake News is bad for America ! " he tweeted overnight . <p> ' Thankyou Donald ' : The subscriptions managers at these papers no longer having to bother spending money on marketing . They can just retweet trump with a link to their subscription pages . <p> He launched comparable barrages against his political opponents , particularly leading Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden , suggesting shady shenanigans were behind the idea of holding a virtual Democratic Party convention : " Joe Biden wanted the date for the Democrat National Convention moved to a later time period . Now he wants a " Virtual " Convention , one where he does n't have to show up . Gee , I wonder why ? " <p> Flatter curve ? In the world outside 1600 Pennsylvania Ave , New York governor Andrew Cuomo said he saw signs the curve was flattening in New York and , of course , Italy . had its lowest rise in deaths in a week . Financial markets perhaps saw the light Trump sees in that data and the Dow Jones industrial average jumped more than 900 points , or 4 percent , at the opening bell Monday . ( The Washington Post ) . <p> Israel locks down harder and Germany tightens : Israel imposed a tighter lockdown , limits on religious gatherings and festivals and travels given emerging hotspots among Orthodox Jewish groups . ( Haaretz ) . Israel imposed similar messages to New Zealand but has 9,000 cases and has had 56 deaths . Haaretz reported that in the Palestinian territories there were 240 cases in the West Bank with one death and 12 cases diagnosed in Gaza . <p> Germany , which has had some success in intensive testing and tracking to contain the spread , the government is considering a mandatory mask requirement ( The Guardian ) . Denmark , meanwhile , which imposed border controls and lockdowns , said it is considering ways to ease back on the limits as soon as next week , believing it had made progress in suppressing the spread of the novel coronavirus . ( Reuters ) . <p> Credible information is crucial in a crisis . <p> The pandemic is pushing us into an unknown and uncertain future . As the crisis unfolds the need for accurate , balanced and thorough reporting will be vital . Newsroom 's team of journalists is working hard to bring you the facts but , now more than ever , we need your support . <p> Reader donations are critical to what we do . If you can help us , please click the button to ensure we can continue to provide quality independent journalism you can trust . <h> Comments <p> Newsroom does not allow comments directly on this website . We invite all readers who wish to discuss a story or leave a comment to visit us on Twitter or Facebook . We also welcome your news tips and feedback via email : contact@newsroom.co.nz . Thank you . 
@@31766331 <h> Long-lost sisters drawn together in a bubble <p> Suzanne McFadden speaks to two Kiwi ' bubbles ' who have unanticipated - but serendipitous - housemates . <p> Sue Bremner has found a silver lining to the brooding cloud of lockdown -- it 's meant getting to know the sister who never knew she existed for almost 65 years . <p> Englishwoman Bremner has found herself holed up in her sister Margaret Hannay 's home in Auckland during the coronavirus lockdown . The two women , who only discovered they were siblings last year , say it 's the perfect way to learn as much about each other as they can . <p> " I can spend time with my sister who I can suddenly get to know , by cooking together , talking together and trying to get through this together , " Bremner says . <p> Theirs is one of any number of stories of unexpected inhabitants in bubbles across New Zealand . People who 've found themselves stranded , away from home , but have been taken in by those they barely know -- but will know well by the end of the isolation period . <p> People like hikers Becca Rolon and Diarmuid McInerney , who were just 83km short of walking the 3000km length of New Zealand when the lockdown came into action last week . They 're now living in a bubble in Whenuapai with the " trail angel " who came to their rescue ( there 's more of their story below ) . <p> Long-lost sisters <p> Born in England 71 years ago , Margaret Hannay was adopted out when she was just two weeks old . She moved to New Zealand after meeting her Kiwi husband , John , and they 've raised two children here . <p> It was only last year , encouraged by her daughter Emma , that Hannay decided to find out if she had any siblings . Two weeks after contacting the General Register Office in England , she discovered a half-sister , who was seven years her junior . <p> Bremner , though , had been trying to track down Hannay for 19 years . <p> " In 2000 , my dad said I had a sister , but it took until last year to find Margaret , " Bremner says . " I 'm sure our father - wherever he is , the rogue - is looking down at us now and laughing . " <p> Hannay also has two half-brothers , Lawrence and John . Last year , she met her three siblings in the UK for the first time . " We only got to spend two days together , " Bremner says . <p> Margaret Hannay ( second from left ) meeting her three siblings for the first time : from left , John , Sue and Lawrence Connell . Photo : John Hannay . <p> So Sue and her husband David planned a trip to New Zealand to visit the Hannays , and travel around the country pursuing their passion for vintage aircraft . <p> David Bremner has rebuilt a Bristol Scout , the fighter plane his grandfather flew off the Gallipoli peninsula in World War I. He sourced the engine for the plane in New Zealand - from Vintage Aviator , the aircraft restoration company in Masterton , owned by Sir Peter Jackson . <p> They were planning to visit Masterton and the Warbirds Over Wanaka airshow , with their friend Theo Willford who also flew out from England , but they never got to leave Auckland . " It was so unexpected . When we left the UK on March 5 , everything was absolutely fine , " Sue Bremner says . <p> So the Bremners and Willford are now living comfortably in lockdown with their new family in New Lynn . <p> " It 's ridiculous ... utterly crazy , " Margaret Hannay says . " The whole story of finding each other is amazing . " <p> So far , the sisters have discovered they share a fear of spiders and " weak , wimpy lattes " . They 're both organisers , who love to cook . " We 've spent a lot of time together in the kitchen , but Margaret is the boss . I 'm now her ' Sue chef ' , " Bremner laughs . <p> The English visitors hope it will be " fourth time lucky " to get on a flight home next week . <p> They are booked to leave on April 11 , but they 're not hanging all their hopes on it - three times so far , their flights have been cancelled . They 've already spent $6000 trying to get home . <p> " But looking at life in New Zealand , the temptation is to stay here , " Bremner says , still buoyant in her bubble . " I love the way everything has been very well organised here . <p> " Our dream is to come back and bring our Bristol Scout aircraft to fly in New Zealand . It 's the only air-worthy Bristol Scout C in the world . <p> American Becca Rolon and Irishman Diarmuid McInerney have gone from one extreme to another in the past 10 days . <p> Since last October , they 've been living in a tent , as they 've walked almost 3000km south from Cape Reinga , to just north of Invercargill ( where they were picked up by police ) . <p> Now they 're confined to a house in the Auckland suburb of Whenuapai Village , yearning to get back to the great outdoors . <p> " It 's a big transition for us , " 31-year-old Rolon say . " When you 're outside every day , walking up to 14 hours a day to meet a goal , you crave a comfortable bed . <p> " Now we have the bed , but when we go for a walk , it 's not with purpose . And there 's anxiety in the back of my head ; I want to stay in shape and stay active so we can finish the 83km we had left to finish the trail . " <p> The couple , who met in a Melbourne hostel on their travels , heard New Zealand was going into lockdown when they were deep in Southland 's Takitimu Forest . <p> " A girl ran past us , frantic , and said there was a lockdown , and told us where we could get phone reception . She could n't help us out , because there was a car coming for her and three other hikers on the trail . And we were left stranded , " Rolon says . <p> When they finally found phone reception , they called Stacey Baker , who 's a ' Trail Angel ' -- someone who looks after walkers on the Te Araroa Trail . They 'd stayed with Baker when they first arrived in New Zealand , and at her bach in Northland on their way through . <p> " It was 2pm on Wednesday , the day before the lockdown , when we found out . Then Stacey gave us a picture of what was happening in the world - that we had till Friday to get on a flight , " Rolon says . <p> They stopped at the next hut on the trail and made 10 peanut butter and jelly sandwiches . They tramped across a mountain range and crossed two rivers in the pitch dark using only one headlight . <p> They also walked 25km through private land on the Mt Linton sheep station ( Rolon rang and apologised to the farm manager when she got back to Auckland ) . <p> When they finally reached a main road , on Thursday morning , Rolon phoned for a taxi and a shuttle to take them to Invercargill airport , but no-one answered . <p> " People in cars were looking at us real funny , shaking their heads at us . Two of them started recording us on their phones . Then it clicked - the lockdown is happening right now , " she says . <p> They were finally rescued by a policeman from the Winton police station , who found them " walking by a cement plant somewhere between Nightcaps and Invercargill " , McInerney explains . <p> Realising how long they 'd been on their feet , the policeman took them to get hot food before delivering them to Invercargill Airport . <p> The couple had no trouble getting on a flight three hours later and returned to Auckland to the safety of a bubble with Baker and Nicolette Rugg . <p> It 's working out well between the bubble buddies . " Diarmuid has fixed the front gate , and Becca bakes us cookies , " Rugg says . " It 's fun , but it 's a shame we 've left most of our board games at the bach . " <p> But the visitors have itchy -- if still sore -- feet . Rolon is n't used to sitting still -- she 's cycled coast-to-coast across the United States and roller-bladed through Israel , from Lebanon to the Gaza Strip . <p> " We want to finish the trail once the quarantine time is over , " McInerney says . " We want to do the 83km all in one go and find a charity to do it for . " <p> Credible information is crucial in a crisis . <p> The pandemic is pushing us into an unknown and uncertain future . As the crisis unfolds the need for accurate , balanced and thorough reporting will be vital . Newsroom 's team of journalists is working hard to bring you the facts but , now more than ever , we need your support . <p> Reader donations are critical to what we do . If you can help us , please click the button to ensure we can continue to provide quality independent journalism you can trust . <h> Comments <p> Newsroom does not allow comments directly on this website . We invite all readers who wish to discuss a story or leave a comment to visit us on Twitter or Facebook . We also welcome your news tips and feedback via email : contact@newsroom.co.nz . Thank you . 
@@31766712 <h> Distress call from Gaza -- New Zealand government must speak out urgently ! <p> The Palestine Solidarity network Aotearoa has renewed its urgent appeal to the government to act in the face of a distress call issued from Gaza 's Ministry of Health to the world to provide laboratory testing materials for Coronaviruus which will run out this evening ( today NZ time ) at Gaza 's central laboratory . <p> More than two weeks ago a wide range of New Zealand organisations and prominent individuals wrote to the Prime Minister urging New Zealand to speak out and call on Israel to abandon its brutal blockade of Gaza to allow Palestinians to fight coronavirus . <p> The letter and key signatories are here and include New Zealander of the year and President of Equity New Zealand Jennifer Ward-Lealand , Catholic Cardinal John Dew , Islamic Women 's Council Spokesperson Anjum Rahman and Anglican Bishop of Aotearoa , New Zealand and Polynesia Philip Richardson . <p> In part the letter says -- <p> The more than two million people living in the blockaded Gaza strip in Palestine are being left to face the Coronavirus with hopelessly inadequate medical facilities and extreme overcrowding -- conditions in which the virus will spread rapidly and devastatingly unless action is taken now . <p> TDB Recommends NewzEngine.com <p> We urge you to put the welfare of Palestinians alongside concern for New Zealanders and speak out calling for Israel to end its blockade of Gaza and military occupation of the Palestinian territories and allow Palestinians to access the medical supplies and equipment they need to deal with this crisis . <p> To date the government ( both the Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs ) has been silent when silence is complicity with a looming human catastrophe . <p> Gaza has been blockaded for 12 years by Israel and Palestinians are unable to get the critical medical supplies they need . The United Nations is warning of frightening consequences of coronavirus taking hold in Gaza . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Palestinians are " an existential threat " to Israel and is on record as saying " the only way to treat Palestinians is to beat them up , not once but repeatedly , beat them up until it 's unbearable " . <p> New Zealand speaking out is the right thing to do -- both from a humanitarian point of view and because what happens in Gaza with coronavirus affects all of us . The health of humanity is now a collective responsibility . <p> " the only way to treat Palestinians is to beat them up , not once but repeatedly , beat them up until it 's unbearable " . All we are required to do , is say nothing about it , John . Your recognition of the brutish , systematic or more rightly , systemic approach to the theft of Palestine by the European diaspora , will not be helpful to any Government struggling against the ' anti-semitic ' propaganda tsunami that will certainly follow any call for Palestinian relief . Thus has been our training . To accept Israeli behaviour against the people of Palestine as being somehow different to expressions of fascism in the past ; the Palestinian ' fault . ' A stain to be washed into the sea , but , quickly now , so that we can forget it ever was . <p> ' Gaza has been blockaded for 12 years by Israel and Palestinians are unable to get the critical medical supplies they need ' And the blockade by Egypt ? , .... I 'm unsure of that one as you never mention it John ... care to elaborate ? <p> Egypt 's Sisi , a military thug , is the darling of Israel and the US . But the most important point is that so many of the Gazans are refugees . They want to go home , as they should legally be able to according to UN Resolution 194 . The Israeli regime is not just blockading Gaza .. the Israeli regime is bombing Gaza , poisoning farmland , firing on fishing boats , dumping Palestinian workers with the virus into Gaza . <p> the debased leadership of Eygpt collaborate and align with Israel ..... Feel better now ImaRight idiot ? " When it comes to devising ways of stripping peaceful protesters of their dignity , the Egyptian military may have just set a new standard for outrage : Egyptian women arrested during a peaceful protest in Tahrir Square earlier this month were forced to take " virginity tests . " https : **32;593;TOOLONG ... " the tests were conducted so that the women would not be able to claim that they had been sexually abused while in custody . <p> Call it a ' quarantine ' , a ' shelter-in-place ' , a ' lockdown ' or a ' curfew ' , we Palestinians have experienced them all , though not at all voluntarily . <p> Personally , the first 23 years of my life were lived in virtual ' lockdown ' . My father 's ' quarantine ' was experienced much earlier , as did his father 's ' shelter-in-place ' before him . They both died and were buried in Gaza 's cemeteries without ever experiencing true freedom outside of their refugee camp in Gaza . <p> Currently in Gaza , the quarantine has a different name . We call it ' siege ' , also known as ' blockade ' . <p> In fact , all of Palestine has been in a state of ' lockdown ' since the late 1940s when Israel became a state and the Palestinian homeland was erased by Zionist colonialists with the support of their Western benefactors . -- -- -- -- -- -- -- <p> Now that nearly half of the population of planet Earth are experiencing some form of ' curfew ' or another , I would like to share a few suggestions on how to survive the prolonged confinement , the Palestinian way . <p> Think Ahead <p> Since we knew that a complete lockdown , or a military curfew , was always pending , we tried to anticipate the intensity and duration of it and prepare accordingly . <p> For example , when the Israeli army killed one or more refugees , we knew in advance that mass protests would follow , thus more killings . In these situations , a curfew was imminent . <p> Number one priority was to ensure that all family members congregated at home or stayed within close proximity so that they could rush in as fast as possible when the caravan of Israeli military jeeps and tanks came thundering , opening fire at anyone or anything within sight . <p> Lesson number one : Always think ahead and prepare for a longer lockdown than the initial one declared by your city or state . <p> Stay Calm <p> My father had a bad temper , although a very kind heart . When curfews were about to start , he would enter into a near-panic state . A chain smoker with obsessive , although rational fear that one of his five boys would eventually be killed , he would walk around the house in a useless rush , not knowing what to do next . <p> Typically , my mother would come in , rational and calculating . She would storm the kitchen to assess what basic supplies were missing , starting with the flour , sugar and olive oil . <p> Knowing that the first crackdown by the Israelis would be on water supplies and electricity , she would fill several plastic containers of water , designating some for tea , coffee and cooking , and others for dishes and washing clothes . <p> Per her orders , we would rush to the nearby stores to make small but necessary purchases -- batteries for the flashlight and the transistor radio , cigarettes for my dad , and a few VHS videotapes which we would watch over and again , whether the curfew lasted for a few days or a few weeks . <p> Lesson number two : Take control of the situation -- do not panic -- and assign specific responsibilities to every family member . This strengthens the family unit and sets the stage for collective solidarity desperately required under these circumstances . <p> Preserve Your Water <p> Ration Your Food <p> Find Sources of Entertainment <p> Find the Humor in Grim Situations <p> Hold Tighter to Your Faith <p> In ConclusionI hope that under no circumstances you will ever hear these ominous words : " You are now under curfew . Anyone who violates orders will be shot immediately . " I also hope that this COVID-19 quarantine will make us kinder to each other and will make us emerge from our homes better people , ready to take on global challenges while united in our common faith , collective pain and a renewed sense of love for our environment . <p> And when it 's all over , think of Palestine , for her people have been ' quarantined ' for 71 years and counting . Dr Ramzy Baroud Surviving a Quarantine <p> A group of young Palestinian athletes and performers have made a video to show solidarity with Italy through the coronavirus pandemic . It is to show the support of all Palestinians to the Italian people , and wishing them victory over the virus : Gaza Youth Perform in Solidarity with the Italian People <p> It would suit Israels interest too ensure that COVID19 does infect the Palestinian territories as the blockade will ensure there is no escape from the virus or the help to combat it . <p> The more Palestinians are wiped out the better for Israel , it will save them the money in their military budget fighting this dirty war . <p> " To date the government ( both the Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs ) has been silent when silence is complicity with a looming human catastrophe " <p> So much for a independent foreign policy where we should be calling out this cruel inhuman treatment of a proud race of people who had their land confiscated then imprisoned in what was left of it . <p> No such thing exists in today 's world . <p> It might as well be renamed subsistence too foreign powers policy or STFP <p> The world came together too pressure South Africa too end apartheid and as John will remember put his life on the line too make a stand as did thousands of others in 1981 over that bloody rugby tour ! ! <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31786818 <h> 7pm tonight NZ 's first on-line protest -- End the blockade of Gaza <p> The Palestine Solidarity Network Aotearoa is organising New Zealand 's first on-line protest -- complete with speakers , placards and even some chants -- this Sunday at 7pm . <p> The protest will call on the government to speak out demanding Israeli authorities end the blockade of Gaza so Palestinians can bring in the medical supplies , equipment and personnel they need to deal with the looming human catastrophe of Covid 19 spreading in this densely populated area with run down medical services . <p> Prominent New Zealanders have written to the government asking for action but Foreign Affairs Minister Winston Peters is unmoved . Without the lockdown we would have organised a protest outside parliament but since this is not possible an online protest will take place . <p> The New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Minister of Foreign Affairs Winston Peters have been invited to speak . <p> Sabreen Annajjar : Mother of Razan Al-Najjar . Razan -- pictured below -- was the 21-year-old female paramedic killed by an Israeli sniper in the March of Return in 2018 -- Wafa will translate Sabreen 's statement . <p> Speaker from New Zealand <p> Ruby Gouda -- Palestinian school student living in Auckland , New Zealand . She will read a poem she has written . <p> Speaker from the Occupied West Bank <p> Basem Tamimi : Basem is a Palestinian activist who has been imprisoned numerous time for resisting the Israeli occupation . He is the father of Ahed Tamimi -- pictured below -- who as a 16-year-old was imprisoned for slapping an Israeli soldier after her family were attacked . <p> Speakers from New Zealand <p> Julie Webb-Pullman -- a New Zealander who has worked in Gaza since 2011 investigating war crimes and is currently in NZ . <p> Roger Fowler and Maia Fowler -- A song to finish " We are all Palestinians " <p> Thanks <p> We hope New Zealand media will take part and report this event . Palestinian voices are rarely reported through our media and they desperately need countries like New Zealand to take notice at this time . <p> We invite the New Zealand media to report on this on-line protest just as the media would attend a protest outside parliament . Al Jazeera in Gaza have requested an invitation to report -- we hope New Zealand media will join them . <h> 3 COMMENTS <p> there is an army of commonwealth and with NZ 's initiative can negotiate and broker ' an end to all hostilities from both sides ( no invasion , no ' boots on ground .. ffs ) . then an operations HQ a couple of soldiers and a 1 x backup up drone for solidarity , and to nuetralise agressions . <p> Israel is sending $4 billion aid to Rwanda keeping in mind that Rwanda is an exporter of diamonds and other minerals . The Financial aid is probably America aid contribution to this nuclear arm state which makes aiding Israel apart from it 's HR breaches illegal under international law . <p> Palestinian voices are rarely reported through our media and they desperately need countries like New Zealand to take notice at this time . <p> We invite the New Zealand media to report on this on-line protest just as the media would attend a protest outside parliament . Al Jazeera in Gaza have requested an invitation to report -- we hope New Zealand media will join them . <h> STAY CONNECTED <p> Launched on Friday 1 March , 2013 , the ' TheDailyBlog.co.nz ' unites New Zealand 's leading left/centre-left commentators and progressive opinion shapers to provide the other side of the story on today 's news , media and political agendas. 
@@31797123 <p> What makes this " discovery " even more peculiar is that many of the images are available for public viewing on the library 's website . <p> I stumbled across them one day while researching another story about an uncle who served in WWII . <p> Karl James , the Australian War Memorial 's head of military history section , said he had not seen the Matson collection before and was " amazed " by what he saw . <p> " It 's a phenomenal photographic archive , which I think is little known in Australia today , " he said . <p> Part of the reason the photographs were so special , he said , was because they had not been taken by an official Australian or British war photographer . <p> " The photographer himself is looking at the Australians through a different lens -- almost as the soldier-as-a-tourist phenomenon . " <p> The photos of Australian troops were all taken between 1940 and 1942 in what was then called the British Mandate for Palestine , a region now encompassing Israel and the Palestinian territories . <p> The archive also includes a number of the photos dating from 1917 and 1918 when mounted Australian infantry battalions were on active duty in the region . <p> Peter Ewer is an Australian historian and the author of three books on WWII , including one about the Greek campaign in 1941 , which would have involved many of the soldiers featured in these photographs . <p> He , too , had never heard of this archive before . <p> " They 're something of a treasure trove that I certainly was n't aware of , " he said . " This is a terrific collection of early war photographs of Australians getting ready for action in the Middle East and to that extent , it 's a discovery of some importance . " <h> Fun in the surf <p> Exactly 80 years ago , the first contingent of Australian infantry troops arrived in the Middle East after a voyage that saw them zig-zag their way across the Indian Ocean to avoid the threat of prowling German U-boats . <p> After disembarking in Egypt , most of the troops were transported to camps in Palestine . There , they were trained for months to prepare them for combat . <p> Between 100,000 and 130,000 Australian troops eventually served in the Middle East between 1940-42 , according to historian Mark Johnston , writing in his book , Anzacs in the Middle East . <p> While the collection contains many images of soldiers on parade and in their quarters , a large number of the photos simply show the Aussies having some downtime : playing in the snow , watching camel races , sightseeing and going to the beach . <p> The striking images below were shot during surf carnivals held at beaches in Gaza and Tel Aviv over the years the WWII Australians were stationed in Palestine . <p> It was from these Middle East bases where the Australians were dispatched to fight battles against the Italians and Germans in North Africa , the Germans in Greece and Crete and the Vichy French in Syria and Lebanon . <p> Many never returned from those campaigns having either been killed or taken prisoner . <p> In 1942 , the troops were recalled home as the threat of invasion loomed following Japan 's declaration of war against the Allies and its advance through South-East Asia and the Pacific . <p> But in 1940 , the horrors of war were yet to manifest and the young volunteer soldiers took full advantage of their leave to visit some of the Holy Land 's most famous historical sites . <h> The American Colony photographers <p> The photos are the work of the American Colony Photo Department , a photography business that opened in Jerusalem in 1898 . <p> It was a commercial offshoot of a utopian , US-based Christian sect that relocated to Jerusalem in 1881 to witness the second coming , establishing a community called the American Colony . <p> By the time the WWII Australians arrived in 1940 , the Colony 's photographers were already an established , taking studio portraits and creating lantern slides and postcards for tourists . <p> Eric Matson and his wife Edith were also members of the American Colony , albeit descended from a Swedish religious group who later joined the Americans . <p> The Matsons took over running the photographic business in 1940 and renamed it the Matson Photo Service . <p> The Matson Photo Service opened a shop in Jerusalem , just off busy Jaffa Road on the north-east corner of the old city . <p> It was in the same building where the Australian Comforts Fund , a charity looking after the welfare of soldiers , had taken over a hotel and established the Australian Soldiers ' Club . <p> This building used to be called the Hotel Fast , which was owned by members of a German Christian sect called the Templers . <p> Like their American cousins , they moved to Jerusalem to establish the German Colony in the late 19th century to await Jesus 's return . <p> After the war , many of the internees remained in Australia and were later joined by fellow Templers from other parts of the world . <p> The Australian prime minister , Robert Menzies , paid a flying visit to Jerusalem in February , 1941 and appeared on the balcony of the Australian Soldiers ' Club with the commander of the Australian forces , General Thomas Blamey . <p> You can see them on the balcony above the Matson Photo Service store . Standing in the doorway of that shop is someone resembling Edith Matson . <h> Strike up the band <p> While there were plenty of diversions for the soldiers in between training and , later , campaigns , the America Colony photographers also documented several official military functions including Anzac Day ceremonies , parades and drills . <p> This picture was taken on Anzac Day in April 1942 and shows a formation of soldiers marching down Jaffa Road past the Australian Soldiers ' Club and the Matson Photo Service office . <p> This photo was taken on March 18 , 1940 , about a month after the first Australian 6th Division soldiers arrived in the region . <p> It shows a military brass band marching down a Jerusalem street past onlookers who appear more interested in the camera than the band . <p> Enlarging the image , you can just make out a sign on the window behind the band that says " Australian Grocery " . <p> In its own impressive photographic collection , the Australian War Memorial has a photo taken from inside that same store , giving a glimpse of what home comforts were on offer . <p> The picture , taken by Damien Parer who was one of a handful of official war photographers working for the Australian Government in the region at the time , shows three servicemen having a drink inside the store . <p> The influx of soldiers on leave in Jerusalem would have provided a big boost to local merchants at the time . <h> The Great War <p> The collection also includes photographs dating back to 1917 and 1918 when mounted troops , including those from Light Horse Brigades , helped to drive out the Ottoman Turks from Palestine at the end of the World War I. <p> This image shows mounted Australian troops escorting a column of captured German soldiers who had been fighting with the Turks . <p> The photo is dated " 1917 or 1918 " . But it is more likely to be 1917 as the surrender of Jerusalem in that theatre of war took place on December 9 , 1917 . <p> This photo was taken on October 12 , 1918 and shows what the caption says are members of the 6th Australian Light Horse regiment leaving Jerusalem for a demobilisation camp . <p> The dark formation on the right of the image appears to be damage to the dry glass plate negative on which the image was captured . <p> However , the nutrients in the gelatine make it susceptible to mould and that appears to have damaged the glass negative , a flaw that has been transferred to the digital print . <p> The Australian content makes up a very minor part of the Matson collection . <p> The vast majority of the photos relate to life of the local Arabs , Jews and Christian colonists who lived together during the late 19th and early 20th century . <p> " With a continual presence in Jerusalem from the late 1800s , the American Colony photographers witnessed many important historical events and personages throughout the subsequent five decades , " writes Todd Bolen , professor of biblical studies , at The Master 's University in Santa Clara , California . <p> " Their work is a splendid visual record that today gives us insights that the contemporary eyewitnesses might never have thought to commit to writing . " <p> The photographic collection was donated to the library in 1978 . In 2003 , the rights were given to the American public . As of today , they remain free of any known copyright restrictions . During 2004 and 2005 , the negative collection was scanned. 
@@31803776 <h> The gap in our Anzac memory <p> Sheree Trotter looks at NZ 's little-known participation in the Sinai and Palestine campaign during WWI , which had great significance for the progress of the war and the future of the Middle East <p> ... the men of New Zealand fought and marched to final and complete victory . Nothing daunted these intrepid fighters ; to them nothing was impossible . I am proud to have had the honour of commanding them ... <p> These are the words of the British commander , General Edmund Allenby , describing the involvement of New Zealand forces in the final weeks of battle to overthrow the Turks in 1918 . <p> For many years Anzac commemorations have highlighted the Gallipoli Campaign in the World War I , where New Zealand troops fought alongside those from Australia , Great Britain and Ireland , France , India , and Newfoundland . That campaign saw the loss of over 130,000 men , including 2779 New Zealanders . The battles in France and Belgium have also received considerable attention . <p> Less well-known is New Zealand 's participation in the Sinai and Palestine campaign . Operations in the final months of the Palestine Campaign , which led to the defeat of the Ottoman forces , were led by New Zealander , Major General Edward Chaytor , whose command -- dubbed ' Chaytor 's Force ' -- included the Anzac Mounted Division . What the Allies set out to achieve in Gallipoli was finally realised in northern Palestine and the Jordan Valley - the routing of Turkish forces . <p> Ironically , the Allied failure in Gallipoli has been enshrined in New Zealand 's war commemorations , while victory over the Ottomans in the Sinai-Palestine campaign has much less presence in our cultural memory . <p> Following the devastating defeat at Gallipoli , the 1800-strong unit of the New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade ( NZMR ) and the New Zealand companies of the Imperial Camel Corps joined other units from across the British Empire to comprise the Egyptian Expeditionary Force ( EEF ) . These forces regrouped in Cairo in December 1915 and prepared to push back the Ottoman forces across the Sinai desert and into Palestine . The EEF took control of the Gaza-Beersheba line , which cleared the way to take Jerusalem . In the final stage of battle , beginning at Megiddo , three Ottoman field armies were destroyed , 76,000 prisoners of war captured and the territories of Palestine , Jordan and Southern Syria conquered . <p> Part of the reason the efforts of the NZMR were little noticed was that the unit was not accompanied by a war correspondent , as were other units . Contemporary historian , Arthur Briscoe Moore wrote that as a consequence , the work done by New Zealanders was often attributed to others . However , military historian Terry Kinloch argued that , ' This was perhaps the finest body of New Zealanders ever to serve overseas ' . They were a military elite , highly mobile and adept in difficult desert conditions , with a reputation for determination and grit . <p> What was probably the best known campaign , the battle of Beersheba , was made famous by the Australian movie , The Lighthorsemen . The winning of Beersheba cleared the way to take Jerusalem , a highly symbolic moment which marked the end of Ottoman dominion over the ' cradle of Christianity ' . <p> Its importance was not lost on General Allenby , who led the campaign . Allenby 's entrance into the Old City was in stark contrast to the ostentatious display made by the German emperor , Kaiser Wilhem II , when he visited Jerusalem in 1898 . The Kaiser rode into the city on richly decorated horses and the ancient walls had to be widened for his entry . <p> Allenby , aware of the gravity of the moment , dismounted his horse and , in an attitude of respect for the holiness of Jerusalem , walked through the city on foot . New Zealanders participated in this historic moment . Fifty dismounted men of the Australian Light Horse and New Zealand Mounted Rifles contributed to the Imperial guard of honour , which stood outside Jaffa gate . <p> Another battle that proved significant for New Zealand took place near Rishon le Zion on November 14 , 1917 . The NZMR Brigade captured Ayun Kara in a fierce battle that included close hand-to-hand combat . It resulted in the heaviest New Zealand toll of the campaign with 44 New Zealanders killed and many wounded . This battle was a turning point in the war . <p> One of the unanticipated outcomes of this engagement was the warm relationship that developed with the Jewish inhabitants of the nearby community of Rishon le Zion , as New Zealand soldiers returned to bivouac in the region over the coming months . It certainly helped that the attractive and well-kept village , described in contemporary sources as a ' pretty little hamlet ' contained a substantial brick wine-press , with huge cellars where ' Light white and red wines and cognac could be had at reasonable prices , and were largely in demand ' . <p> The gratitude of the local community was genuine . They undertook to care for the graves of the fallen and erected a memorial column in their honour . A letter was published in the New Zealand Herald at Christmas 1919 by a farmer from the Jewish village of Rishon le Zion , expressing their gratitude : <p> Permit us , you noblest and brave sons of New Zealand and Australia , to assure you of the sentiments of our hearts and of the esteem and veneration with which we will always hold you . We wish you all well . We wish you a safe and pleasant life . <p> The friendship between New Zealanders and the local Jewish inhabitants contributed towards a growing support for the Jewish goal of establishing a home in their ancient lands . Many Kiwis identified with the hardworking , ' hand to the plough ' attitude of the Jewish immigrants and admired their achievements in turning malarial swamps into productive land . The outcome of the military campaign opened the way for the realisation of the Jewish dream of a homeland . The geo-political changes that followed the end of World War I led to the re-drawing of territorial boundaries and the establishment of new global platforms for co-operation . <p> New Zealand 's Prime Minister William Massey participated in the reconfiguring the new world , in the post-war Paris Peace conferences . These developments helped set the stage for the eventual establishment of a Jewish state . The Palestine Campaign , a battle in which New Zealand was greatly invested , turned out to have great significance for the progress of the war and the future of the Middle East . <p> Credible information is crucial in a crisis . <p> The pandemic is pushing us into an unknown and uncertain future . As the crisis unfolds the need for accurate , balanced and thorough reporting will be vital . Newsroom 's team of journalists is working hard to bring you the facts but , now more than ever , we need your support . <p> Reader donations are critical to what we do . If you can help us , please click the button to ensure we can continue to provide quality independent journalism you can trust . <h> Comments <p> Newsroom does not allow comments directly on this website . We invite all readers who wish to discuss a story or leave a comment to visit us on Twitter or Facebook . We also welcome your news tips and feedback via email : contact@newsroom.co.nz . Thank you . 
