<h> Stance on Gaza <p> A new radical stance by the US and Israel on their erstwhile Palestine policy has come as a disgusting shock . In contravention of the norms of civilisational ethics , international law and UN resolutions , Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu now insists that a ' Palestinian state ' can come into being in Saudi Arabia . This graduation in xenophobia has come after President Donald Trump 's suggestion of evicting Gazans from the besieged strip and converting it into a Mideast riverine , and subsequently relocating the existential race in other neighbouring Arab states . Pakistan , in line with its conventional policy , was swift and right in condemning the weird proposal . It huddled in proactive diplomacy with Iran and Turkiye , describing the proposal as an utter disregard to the Palestinians ' legitimate right to self-determination and to an independent state . <p> The twists and turns , however , are not new . The Zionist state , apparently emboldened by Trump 's return , has come up with the new mantra of denying the earlier agreed synopsis of Two-State solution on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the October 7 , 2023 Hamas attacks " . This is nothing but opportunism of realpolitik , and is meant to hide the crimes that Tel Aviv committed in Gaza and West Bank . The ICJ has indicted the Jewish state for genocide , making it liable to address the issue in relevance with humanitarian law . Similarly , Trump 's somewhat confused positioning on Gaza seems to be an outcome of his first term 's jingoism wherein he legitimised Israeli settlements in the West Bank ; recognised Jerusalem as Israel 's capital ; choreographed the Abraham Accords ; and ruthlessly backed Israel 's crimes against humanity . <p> Pakistan must take up the issue with the OIC and extensively interact with major stakeholders in the Muslim world to denounce the Israeli designs . Islamabad 's assurances to Iran and Saudi Arabia that it will lead from the front is genuine leadership . The upcoming visit of Turkish President Recep Tayyab Erdogan to Pakistan must set the ball rolling , and a roadmap be drafted for the liberation of Palestinians from repression and slavery .
