<h> UK : growing Islamophobia <p> Islamophobic attacks in the UK continued to rise in 2024 , fueled by a broader increase in anti-Muslim sentiment and hate speech from far-right figures . The disturbing trend is a stain on the nation 's commitment to diversity , tolerance and social cohesion . Moreover , it posed a massive challenge to the Starmer government , most prominently over the summer when , barely weeks after the election , far-right propagandists instigated nationwide anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant riots over the horrific murders of three children in Southport , falsely claiming that the Christian , British-born attacker was a Muslim migrant or asylum seeker . <p> Israel and pro-Israeli groups and individuals have also contributed to anti-Muslim sentiment , trying to equate anti-genocide protesters to supporters of Hamas , which carried out the October 7 , 2023 , attack that Israel used as the pretext for its ensuing genocidal campaign in Gaza . Several media outlets and political figures also parroted these narratives , even after they were proven false . <p> Although the British government has mostly responded the right way , the media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally not fared better , though Elon Musk merits a mention . As part of his personal rebranding as an anti-immigrant white supremacist , the owner of X has been actively spreading disinformation about Muslims , Starmer and the British government , seemingly challenging them to cite him for violating hate speech laws . <p> The impact of these hate crimes extends far beyond the immediate victims . ' Visible ' Muslims , including women who wear hijabs and people entering or leaving mosques , are disproportionately targeted , and children are growing up in an environment where they feel unwelcome in their own country . This erosion of safety and belonging undermines the very principles of equality and inclusion on which the UK prides itself . It also perpetuates the cycle of alienation and marginalisation , which has long-term social and economic consequences such as failure to integrate and the creation of ghettos.
