<p> By Roberto Cetera and Lisa ZengariniThe Custos of the Holy Land , Father Francesco Patton OFM Cap. , marked the annual tradition of entering Bethlehem to preside over the first Advent Sunday Mass in the Church of Saint Catherine , adjacent to the Basilica of the Nativity . <p> The Franciscan friar made his solemn entrance to the Palestinian city where Jesus was born on Saturday , 30 November , first escorted by the Israeli police and then by Palestinian police , and was warmly welcomed by local authorities and residents . <p> A grim atmosphere in Bethlehem marked by war and economic hardship <p> It was a poignant moment for the people of Bethlehem , who are facing their second Christmas amid ongoing war and economic hardships . <p> Tourism -- a vital source of livelihood -- has vanished since the outbreak of conflict between Hamas and Israel in 2023 , leaving the Basilica of the Nativity empty , local businesses closed , and residents , who are unable to cross the separation wall to work in Jerusalem , with no income to survive on . <p> Indeed , the atmosphere in Bethlehem is grim , though new recent efforts to revive the deadlocked negotiations for a Gaza ceasefire and the release of Israeli hostages leave a glimmer of hope that this will be the last Advent in wartime in the Holy Land . <p> Keeping hope aliveFather Patton expressed this hope on Saturday and again at Mass on Sunday : " Never lose hope , especially when the world seems intent on tearing it away from us " , he told the faithful in Bethlehem during the Vespers on Saturday evening . <p> As Pope Francis inaugurates the 2025 Jubilee of Hope , he urged them to " preserve and spread hope and be pilgrims of hope . " <p> In the face of " evil , despair , illness , discouragement , and this horrific war that distresses and wounds us , " , he said , " we have no choice but to hold our gaze high . " <p> Fr . Patton reiterated this call as he addressed nearly one thousand faithful attending the Advent Mass on Sunday " We must learn to watch and pray as Jesus suggests , " , he said in his homily . <p> The testimony of a young man in the Gaza parishDuring the liturgy , which he concelebrated with Father Ibrahim Faltas , OFM Cap. , the Vicar of the Custody , the Italian-born Franciscan Custos shared the testimony of Suhail Abo Dawood , one of the hundreds of displaced Palestinians sheltering in Holy Family Catholic church in Gaza . <p> The young man wrote a column for Vatican newspaper " L'Osservatore Romano " titled " I write to you from Gaza , " in which he describes how , under the most terrible bombings , he felt safe because he was in a church praying with other Christians . He felt his life was in God 's hands . <p> Just a few days ago , Suhail wrote to share that his grandfather had passed away . However , " the words were not sad but full of gratitude and hope because his grandfather was able to die as a Christian , " Fr . Patton reported , quoting parts of the young man 's message : " We thank God every day for all the gifts and graces He has given us . We pray every day for peace and security in our country and around the world . We are certain that this war will end very soon , and the days to come will be better . " <p> " This attitude of vigilant and grateful prayer is important for keeping hope alive , " the Custos concluded " You must lift your gaze to Heaven , to Jesus who is coming , and do not despair when evil strikes like a storm upon our lives , " he said. --Vatican News
