<p> AS the wars in Ukraine and Gaza grind to a halt and uneasy peace settles , who are the winners and losers ; and what lessons can the world take away from the wars and their aftermath ? <p> First , there are no victors among the combatants -- military , political or from any other summation -- despite what so-called independent Western and allied Asian media may lead their readers to believe . <p> Apart from those killed fighting the wars , what is more appalling has been the impact on those directly or indirectly in the path of the rockets , missiles and other military weaponry unleashed in war and non-war zones . <p> Ukrainians , Russians , Palestinians , Lebanese , Israelis -- all are casualties , victims and losers , with estimates running into several millions and still counting . <p> Gaza 's Health Ministry has stated that the real Palestinian toll is higher , as thousands of bodies remain buried under rubble or in areas that medics can not access . <p> In Ukraine , The Economist newspaper , citing leaked or published intelligence reports , defence officials , researchers and open-source intelligence , reported that Ukraine and Russia have lost a greater share of their populations than the US did during the Korean and Vietnam wars combined . <p> The paper may have been indirectly paying tribute to President Joe Biden 's credo of fighting Russia " to the last Ukrainian " . <p> Casualties in the millions <p> Although still lionised by US and Western allies as indomitable fighters of freedom , peace and security , the leaders of Ukraine and Israel -- Volodymyr Zelensky and Benjamin Netanyahu -- are unlikely to be remembered favourably by history or even their own people . <p> Both leaders not only failed to pursue but also spurned offers of peace for the longest time and were insistent that they could win military victories . Their intransigence and refusal to sit at the negotiation table is now coming to an end . <p> Zelensky will soon find that his new position , following Donald Trump 's presidential victory , is too little too late in terms of the enormity of the cost to Ukraine , which has a reconstruction programme that will stretch for several decades ahead . <p> As for Netanyahu , his repeated promise of " war without end " and refusal to accept a Palestinian state will especially backfire on Israel 's future generation , if not renounced by the next Israeli leader . <p> Role of US , MIC and Nato <p> The real winners of the wars are the US and the Western military-industrial complexes ( MIC ) . A report in the Spanish paper El Pais noted that the market value of the main military equipment manufacturers in the US and Europe has skyrocketed over the past two and a half years in the wake of the two wars . <p> This was confirmed by a study from the financial and strategic consultancy organisation , Accuracy , which analysed the performance of the seven main US companies in the industry and their European counterparts from the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation member countries ( Nato ) . <p> Not coincidentally , Nato played a key role in the Ukraine war initially by extending its membership to former Soviet Union countries beyond what had been agreed by American and European leaders to their Russian counterparts . It has more blood on its hands in Ukraine than commonly known . <p> The recent declassification of documents dating back to 1990 reveal that security assurances against Nato expansion were made to Soviet leaders by James Baker , George Bush , Hans-Dietrich Genscher , Helmut Kohl , Robert Gates , Fran ? ois Mitterrand , Margaret Thatcher , Douglas Hurd , John Major and Manfred Woerner . Soviet leaders then were Mikhail Gorbachev and Eduard Shevardnadze . <p> This chapter of Nato-Russian relations , following the breakup of the Soviet Union and the reunification of Germany , provides a different analysis of the origins of the war in which Western leaders and the media point to Russian President Vladimir Putin as the aggressor and instigator , and insist that the blame is entirely on the Russian side while Nato is an innocent and unwilling stake player . <p> Following the Russian advance into Ukraine in February 2022 , Nato member countries have mobilised a massive inflow of military and non-military assistance to Ukraine , the intention and effect of which has been to keep Volodymyr Zelensky away from the negotiation table . <p> According to the Accuracy report , the stock market capitalisation of the military-dependent companies -- mislabelled to the public as defence companies when in fact their products are multipurpose -- had increased by 59.7% from Feb 24 , 2022 , when the war in Ukraine began , to March 2024 . The rise is much higher than that of the benchmark stock market indexes on both sides of the Atlantic ( S&amp;P 500 and Euro Stoxx 50 ) , which in the same period recorded increases of just over 13% and 7% , respectively . <p> US companies that are winners in the market , according to the report , are Honeywell International , RTX Corporation , Lockheed Martin , Northrop Grumman , General Dynamics , L3Harris and Huntington Ingalls . <p> On the European side , the winner list of companies included France 's Safran , Dassault Aviation and Thales ; the UK 's BAE Systems ; Germany 's Rheinmetall ; Italy 's Leonardo ; and Norway 's Kongsberg Gruppen . <p> According to Ignacio Lliso , a partner at Accuracy , the companies they selected were those whose activity is heavily influenced by the " defence " sector . <p> The findings of the study accord with that of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , which found that global military spending in 2023 was US$2,443 billion ( RM10,871 billion ) , a 6.8% increase from 2022 . This was the largest increase since 2009 . <p> The average military expenditure as a share of government expenditure was 6.9% in 2023 and world military spending per person was US$306 , the highest since 1990 . <p> Pressure for new wars to feed and strengthen the MIC and defence companies of the world will continue unabated . All that is required are leaders such as those currently entrenched , who are intent on pursuing the new Cold War version of " freedom , peace and security " .
