<p> A banner with an image of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is displayed , as Israelis protest against the government and show support for the hostages who were kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 , attack , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel December 28 , 2024. -- Reuters pic <p> New to investing ? Versa makes it simple -- sign up via the app , invest RM100 , and we 'll give you RM10 off as a first-time user . Exclusively for Malay Mail readers : Use code VERSAMM10 <p> Sunday , 29 Dec 2024 6:08 PM MYT <p> JERUSALEM , Dec 29 -- Hostages held in Gaza were subjected to torture , including sexual and psychological abuse , starvation , burns and medical neglect , according to a new report by the Israeli Health Ministry that will be submitted to the United Nations this week . <p> The report is based on interviews with the medical and welfare teams which treated more than 100 Israeli and foreign hostages , most of whom were released in late November 2023 , in a brief truce between Israel and Hamas . Eight hostages were rescued by the Israeli military . <p> The hostages include more than 30 children and teenagers , a few of whom were found to have been bound , beaten or branded with a heated object , according to the report addressed to the UN Special Rapporteur on Torture and published late on Saturday . <p> Women reported sexual assault by the captors , including at gunpoint . Men were beaten , starved , branded , held bound in isolation and denied access to a bathroom , the report said . Some were denied treatment for injuries and medical conditions . <p> The report did not identify any of the hostages by name or age , to protect their privacy , but some of the descriptions matched those provided by hostages and staff that treated them in interviews with Reuters and other media and a UN report . <p> Hamas has repeatedly denied abuse of the 251 hostages abducted from Israel during its October 7 , 2023 assault . About half of the 100 hostages still held in Gaza are believed by Israeli authorities to still be alive . <p> A fresh bid to secure a Gaza ceasefire including a hostage deal has gained momentum in recent weeks , although no breakthrough has been reported as yet . <p> The war began with Hamas ' October 2023 attack , in which 1,200 people were killed , most of them civilians , according to Israeli authorities . <p> Israel 's subsequent campaign against Hamas has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , most of them civilians , according to Palestinian health officials , displaced nearly all of Gaza 's population and reduced much of its territory to rubble . <p> Israeli authorities are investigatin gallegations of abuse against Palestinian detainees arrested during the war . -- Reuters
