<h> Surrey Local Immigration Partnership to host open house for newcomers <p> The Surrey Local Immigration Partnership ( LIP ) will host its annual Newcomer Open House , dedicated to helping newcomers integrate smoothly into the Surrey community by connecting them with essential resources and services . <p> The Newcomer Open House will take place on September 11 , 2024 , at the Surrey Civic Plaza from 12 pm to 4 pm . The event will feature various local agencies offering information and resources on employment services , English language training , housing support and more . Organisers say that it 's a great opportunity for newcomers to meet with service providers and learn about the wide range of support available to help them settle into their new lives in Surrey . " This event embodies our commitment to ensuring a seamless integration experience for newcomers , " said Lenya Wilks , Director of Partnership &amp; Stakeholder Engagement at Surrey LIP . " We are excited to facilitate connections between newcomers and the numerous services provided by settlement agencies , laying a strong foundation for their journey ahead . " <p> The event is also a great opportunity to exchange notes with fellow newcomers in the area with shared life experiences and build a social network . <p> Mayor Brenda Locke expressed her enthusiasm for the event , stating , " We are thrilled to bring together community partners and newcomers for the Surrey LIP Open House . Our diversity is one of our greatest assets , and Surrey takes great pride in welcoming all people . Newcomers who make Surrey their home bring much-needed skills and talents to our city . This special event is an opportunity to learn more about services and programs that will help you and your families as you settle into your new life . " <p> Mayor Locke will be reading a proclamation declaring September 13-22 , 2024 , as " Welcoming Week " in the City of Surrey . This week-long celebration will highlight the importance of inclusivity and the positive impact that newcomers have on the community . <p> Visit surreylip.ca for more details or contact them directly at surreylip@dcrs.ca . <h> Authors <h> About us ... <p> Founded in 2004 , the magazine began with a mandate to " inform , educate and motivate " immigrants to Canada and assist them in their new found journey . Since then , the magazine has grown to be the only national multi-platform brand for all immigrants to Canada , on topics from careers to education to settlement . Canadian Immigrant not only connects newcomers in Canada , but also aspiring immigrants from more than 150 countries . <h> Newsletter <p> Email address <p> Postal Code <p> Yes ! Send me email announcements , notices , special offers and other information that may be of interest to me from Canadian Immigrant . <p> Canadian Immigrant newsletters include news and content relating to the publication - Canadian Immigrant . * Your personal information will be used to better tailor the offers , promotions and other communications that we deliver . You may unsubscribe from promotional messages at any time . See our Privacy Policy or contact us for more information : Metroland Media Group Ltd . P.O. Box 36524 Hamilton RPO Eastgate Hamilton , ON L8E 5B2. 1-866-838-8960 . <h> Senior Advisor , Transport Canada <p> City : Winnipeg <p> Country of origin : India <p> In the heart of Canada in Winnipeg , Jaideep Johar is a testament to resilience and unwavering commitment . His journey from India to Canada in 2005 marked the beginning of a remarkable odyssey despite a year-long struggle to secure employment . <p> His perseverance , sincerity and strong belief in values and ethics facilitated his adaptation to the new environment . Leveraging his best professional capabilities , Johar has actively assisted new immigrants in their settlement journey . He collaborates with various organizations to promote diversity , equity and inclusivity , ensure sustainable living , safeguard Mother Earth from the impacts of climate change , assist in search and rescue efforts , promote pride and support veterans . <p> With a Ship Captain Certificate and a bachelor 's of maritime studies from Memorial University , Newfoundland , along with his pursuit of a master 's degree in marine management , Johar 's credentials underscore his extensive expertise in the maritime field , spanning over 30 years . Beginning his career in the Merchant Navy at 18 , Johar has navigated seas worldwide as a ship captain . Before his current role as a senior advisor with Transport Canada 's Prairie and Northern Region 's Marine Safety and Security branch , he contributed his skills to BC Ferries . Throughout his career , Johar has held various managerial positions , including serving as the regional director of the Transportation Security and Emergency Preparedness branch . <p> His leadership is evident in his efforts to enhance marine safety measures , advocate for environmental conservation and foster collaboration with Indigenous communities . He is a spokesperson for a video with Inuktitut subtitles , which has received widespread praise for efforts to safeguard Canada 's pristine waters . Watch here : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=7YOiNPVwdiU **314;62; As chairperson of the Winnipeg Public Library Board , he led efforts to promote cultural diversity , enhance community safety and advance reconciliation with Indigenous communities . Johar actively engages with organizations such as the Global Citizen movement , David Suzuki Foundation , Rotary International Club , CASARA , Royal Canadian Legion , Winnipeg Committee for Safety and World BEYOND War . <p> He actively participates in the Winnipeg Pride Parade , which supports the GSRD ( Gender , Sexual and Relationship Diverse ) community . <p> He has regularly volunteered at the Winnipeg Folklorama Festival , which aims to celebrate diversity and promote cultural understanding . His family members , including his wife Narinder Johar , a daycare teacher , and his son Harsh , a business college student , and daughter Sage , also participate annually in the Folklorama . Harsh and Sage were recently chosen as Ambassadors for the Punjab Pavilion of the Folklorama . <p> His collaborations and partnerships , such as with Forester Care Insurance to raise funds for Harvest Manitoba , Toys for Daycare and Beds for Children , highlight his dedication to making a difference . He has inspired community members to join various organizations as volunteers . <p> Additionally , he regularly supports various organizations , including the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Canada , Covenant House , the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , the Kidney Foundation , the International Fund for Animal Welfare , the Canadian Red Cross , Diabetes Canada , the Cancer Research Society , Breast Cancer Canada and Oxfam Canada . <p> Recently he was invited to the Global Peace Summit at the University of Oxford . He has received recognition from deputy ministers of Transport Canada and the regional director general from Crown -- Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada ( CIRNAC ) for his outstanding contribution to working with Indigenous communities , representing the Government of Canada . He received the National Creativity and Transformation Team award and has been acknowledged by Indigenous Canada for his participation in Treaty Annuities . Johar has been featured in several news articles in Canada and abroad . <p> In order to serve his country , he has recently joined the Naval Reserves . <p> Monika G. Feist <h> Chief executive officer , Success Skills Centre <p> City : Winnipeg <p> Country of origin : Germany <p> Monika G. Feist came to Canada from Germany as a child in 1954 . Difficulties her parents and their friends had in establishing themselves in Canada made a deep impression ; she recalls being called a DP and other names . These memories stirred in her a desire to improve immigrants ' conditions . <p> Feist 's journey with Success Skills Centre began in 1983 . As the Prairie region 's employment and immigration women 's employment co-ordinator , she helped set in motion funding of the new centre 's work experience project for immigrant women professionals to return to their occupations . <p> In 1989 , she joined the centre , steering its evolution as a not-for-profit , niche organization dedicated to helping immigrant professionals navigate the Canadian employment landscape and jumpstart their careers through its preparatory training and internships . In the earlier years , she often felt she was a voice in the wilderness for systemic changes needed to remove employment and credentials recognition barriers immigrants face , making presentations to Ottawa , Manitoba ministers and staff . <p> Before starting at Success Skills , Feist carved a path as a consultant , delving into various realms including employment equity , organizational development and management training . She authored several handbooks on employment equity , employee ownership , the 1974 Manitoba Driver 's Handbook ( first since 1954 ) , developed Manitoba 's first seatbelt campaign , and co-edited a book on the Dakota Sioux in Canada . Prior , she was consultant to Manitoba assistant deputy minister of communications , involved in PR for the first Winnipeg school breakfast program , and as an editor . <p> Feist chairs the employment sector committee for Immigration Partnership Winnipeg , has served on boards/committees , including presently SEED Winnipeg , World Education Services ' #ImmigrantsWork project , National Cultural Brokers , Canadian Coalition of Community-Based Employability Training and **28;379;TOOLONG Councils of Women . <p> Her commitment to community building extends to her role in the founding of several organizations , e.g. , Reaching Equality , Immigrant Women 's Association of Manitoba and Women 's Employment Counselling Services . She was honoured for her contributions in 2000 with the Citation for Citizenship Award , the Long Service to Immigrants Award and more recently , with the Provincial Council of Women of Manitoba 's Celebrating Women 's Award.Top of Form <p> Faaez Al-hendi <h> Entrepreneur and community builder <p> City : Kitchener , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Syria <p> Faaez Al-hendi 's story begins when he and his family first immigrated to Canada from Syria in the 1990s in pursuit of better opportunities , which was exactly what was in store . The Al-hendi family are the proud owners of Ammar 's Halal Market in Kitchener , Ontario , which has been serving the community for over 20 years . <p> The supermarket offers a variety of fresh grocery , local halal meats and a selection of home staples . Al-hendi , who is vice president of operations , elevated Ammar 's from a small family-owned business to a thriving enterprise , achieving an impressive $5.5 million in annual revenue last year . His leadership transformed the store into a vital community hub , offering support to newcomers with gift cards to Ammar 's through local Masjid 's and Reception House , and services ranging from government assistance to employment opportunities , reflecting his deep commitment to his immigrant roots . <p> Beyond his professional success , Al-hendi is dedicated to giving back to the community through his role as board member at Food4Kids Waterloo Region , a non-profit that offers healthy food packages to children outside school hours . About 45 per cent of children served require halal food , which is where Al-hendi 's strategic insights and halal industry background ensured the organization is meeting the needs of the community . <p> His contributions also extend to partnerships with the Food Bank of Waterloo Region , where he facilitates the distribution of halal meats to community centres , embodying his commitment to community welfare and immigrant integration . He also supports low income families through House of Friendship . <p> Innovative and forward-thinking , Al-hendi implemented sustainable practices at Ammar 's , including waste reduction initiatives and the launch of Ammar 's Rewards , one of the first halal supermarket loyalty programs in Canada . Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic , he displayed unwavering dedication by personally delivering online orders to customers ' doors , exemplifying his commitment to customer service and community support . <p> His expertise spans operational philosophy , marketing , team leadership and inventory management , contributing to his reputation as an entrepreneurial trailblazer . His strategic vision , coupled with his immigrant background , drives his commitment to ethical business practices and community service , making him a respected leader in both spheres . <p> Toyin Lafenwa Oladele <h> Arts manager , culture worker and EDIA advocate <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Nigeria <p> Named Calgary 's Avenue Top 40 under 40 in 2023 , Top 100 Black Women to Watch in 2022 by CIBWE , CRIEC 's Formidable Women in 2023 and 2024 , Star Person of the Year by Ethnik Festival for Arts and Culture in 2023 , Local Women and Global Changemakers Award in 2022 by CIWA , Top 25 EDIA Persons of the Year in 2021 by Canadian Multicultural Group and the Inclusive Leadership Award by Inclusion Champions Award in 2024 , Toyin Lafenwa Oladele is an esteemed transformational arts and culture leader , international speaker , equity , diversity , inclusion &amp; accessibility advocate , businesswoman and community builder . <p> With almost two decades in the arts , Oladele came to Canada six years ago , and the challenges she faced finding a job led to founding the Immigrant Council for Arts Innovation ( ICAI ) in 2019 to integrate and support newcomers and immigrant professionals into the arts sector in Alberta . With almost 3,000 members , Oladele is the executive director for ICAI and also a public art project manager for the City of Calgary . She serves as mentor , coach and sounding board for arts organizations across Canada providing recommendations on inclusive language , arts management curricula , non-profit strategies and leading million-dollar initiatives . Her drive for an equitable culture sector made her create about 400 opportunities while mentoring over 150 BIPOC individuals across the country in four years . <p> Recognized by the City of Calgary , the Lieutenant Governor of Alberta and the Premier of Alberta for her work in the community , Oladele directed the first Immigrant Arts Festival and created the Newcomer Arts Professional Program for newcomer arts professionals to receive mentorship and professional experience in Canada during the pandemic , this program is the fourth of its kind in North America . She is a diversity and inclusion champion , leading projects and programs targeted at elevating the cultural landscape in Canada . <p> She has a bachelor 's degree in French language and literature from Nigeria and she is also an Executive MBA student at the Smith School of Business , Queen 's University . <h> Actor and musician <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Iraq <p> Ahmed Moneka 's introduction to the world of Canadian art began in 2015 when a film he had acted in screened at the Toronto International Film Festival . This was the first film in Iraq to speak of gay men , which resulted in him receiving threats from militias in Baghdad , preventing his return . He had no choice but to remain in Toronto , where he made his new home . <p> During his formative years in Iraq , Moneka learned Afro-sufi traditional songs and drumming in the Moneka tradition , as his family arrived in Iraq from Kenya in the 8th century . He also attended the top high school for performing arts , where he learned a variety of artistic disciplines , from theatre to singing maqam ( scales and nuances ) of Middle Eastern music . Through these experiences , he acquired his perspectives on the world and his place within it , and continued attending the Academy of Fine Arts at the University of Baghdad . During these years , he began to be especially moved by stories of human struggle and freedom , forming his convictions about human rights through his art , voice and song . <p> Moneka is the lead artist of Moneka Arabic Jazz , and his story is that of an Iraqi refugee turned Canadian citizen . He brings a unique perspective of the Iraqi Canadian experience and his deep-rooted knowledge of the earliest civilizations in Baghdad . Toronto audiences have warmly welcomed his stories and songs , enriching his experiences in this diverse cultural tapestry . <p> He is a member of Noteworthy The Musical Stage &amp; Prime Mover and a member of Soulpepper Academy . He was also one of the Stingray Rising Stars finalists in 2019 at the TD Toronto Jazz Festival and the Stingray Rising Stars winner at Mundial Montreal 2022 . In 2023 , he was a Dora nominee for Outstanding Performance in a Leading Role . <p> Moneka , a performing artist in music and theatre , has made notable contributions to the Canadian cultural scene . He has collaborated with many organizations , including the Canadian Opera Company , Soulpepper Theatre , Crow 's Theatre and Aga Khan Museum . Moneka is also a founder of Moskitto Bar and a Kun ? member . <p> Sugith Varughese <h> Screenwriter , actor , director and playwright <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : India <p> Born in Kochi ( formerly Cochin ) , in the southern state of Kerala , India , Sugith Varughese came to Canada as a toddler and spent his childhood in Saskatoon , Saskatchewan , becoming a naturalized citizen in 1969 . After graduating high school with a Governor General 's medal for the province of Saskatchewan , he attended the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis where he graduated summa cum laude with a BA in theatre arts . He received an MFA in film in Canada from York University and was the first minority to attend the prestigious Canadian Film Centre as a writer-director . <p> He broke into television as a writer , best known as one of the original writers of the famed Muppet TV series , Fraggle Rock . Besides many hours of Canadian TV series episodes , in 1983 , he wrote the first multicultural romantic comedy movie produced by the CBC called Best of Both Worlds , which he also starred in , launching his acting career . <p> As an actor , he has over 100 film and TV credits , over 25 radio drama credits and many stage appearances . He is considered a pioneering South Asian Canadian actor and writer , becoming a series regular on CBC 's Gemini-winning comedy series An American in Canada and recurring on CBC 's famed comedy Little Mosque on the Prairie . He is perhaps best known for creating the iconic characters of Mr. Mehta in the hit comedy , Kim 's Convenience and the hard-boiled Dr. Singh on the TV series Transplant , notably appearing in both series at the same time , yet another first for a Canadian television actor , let alone a brown one . <p> His many stage appearances culminated in a Dora award nomination for his poignant and funny portrayal of the father in Little Pretty and the Exceptional in 2017 . In 2013 , he wrote his first stage play , Entitlement , produced to good notices at Summerworks in Toronto and he contributed to The Postman , which was produced in 2015 . He continues to act on stage and will be appearing in the Toronto premiere of The Wrong Bashir at Crow 's Theatre in spring 2024 . <p> As a director , he has made award-winning short films , like the Genie-nominated Kumar and Mr. Jones and his films for children have been nominated for several awards including a Gemini . In addition to those awards , he won the first York Trillium Award -- Most Promising Writer in Television in 1989 . He has won two WGC Awards and been nominated for acting and writing Geminis . In 2007 , the Writers Guild of Canada gave him a Writers Block award for service to the guild and he received a distinguished alumnus award from the University of Minnesota 's College of Liberal Arts in 2012 . <p> For 10 years , he volunteered on the board of Home Ownership Alternatives , which provides financial assistance to non-profit home ownership projects in Ontario . He has also been on the national council for the Writers Guild of Canada and since 2005 , has been a governor of AFBS , a federally regulated financial institution that provides insurance and retirement for two arts unions , the WGC and ACTRA . <p> An avid golfer , he also holds black belts in karate and kobudo and was the first Canadian to grade in his style of kobudo in Japan . <p> Iulia Tudor 's journey from Romania to Canada embodies resilience and determination in the face of adversity . Fleeing a communist revolution and seeking better health care for her scoliosis diagnosis , her family arrived in Canada in 1997 . Inspired by wartime narratives , Tudor pursued psychology at UBC , focusing on aiding trauma survivors . Volunteering at an orphanage in Cambodia , she aided Khmer Rouge genocide survivors to overcome grief with the Buddhist Coping Scale . This research has practical applications by helping refugees from war-torn countries integrate into society . It was funded by grants and presented at the Canadian Psychology Association for clinical applications . <p> While at UBC , Tudor committed herself to a variety of philanthropic missions . She helped organize the " Diamond Ball " softball tournament , helping raise over $4,000 for Ronald McDonald House Charities . She also participated in the UBC Shinerama campaign and " Songfest " musical competition , fundraising for the Canadian Cystic Fibrosis Foundation . <p> Transitioning to applied research , Tudor also contributed to the scientific community at UBC 's Behavioural Cardiology Lab , where her research , published in peer-reviewed journals , offered valuable insights into preventative approaches for prostate cancer treatment . <p> Despite a career-ending spinal injury , she secured , supported by research and travel grants , a research position at Harvard University , investigating resource allocation biases . Her work challenged traditional notions of fairness , prompting a re-evaluation of resource allocation processes across societal sectors and led to another notable publication . <p> Undeterred by her spinal injury , Tudor co-founded successful ventures like Tudor Total Fitness and A+ Property Maintenance , demonstrating entrepreneurial prowess . As brand director at a branding agency , she led philanthropic efforts with the Canucks Alumni , fostering corporate-community engagement . She then identified market gaps , and founded Evolve X App Society , a non-profit organization and application , addressing the needs of students , startups and investors by offering education , real-world experience , startup resources and funding . This venture empowered students and businesses to enter the competitive landscape . <p> Through her achievements , Tudor exemplifies resilience , innovation and a commitment to making a meaningful impact in Canada 's business , technology and research landscape . <p> Cyrus Sundar Singh , PhD . <h> Academicreactivist , scholar , filmmaker , musician and changemaker <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : India <p> Cyrus Sundar Singh , PhD , is an AcademiCreActivist : a Gemini Award-winning filmmaker , scholar , composer , singer-songwriter , author , poet and changemaker . He arrived in Toronto as a 10-year-old from India and almost embraced the winter . A much sought-after creative scholar , guest lecturer and multimedia producer who continually pushes conventional boundaries , Sundar Singh 's productions and presentations have taken him around the world , including Senegal , India , Israel , Spain , Haiti , Jamaica , U.K. , U.S.A. and Sri Lanka . <p> As a research fellow with CERC in Migration , Sundar Singh successfully conceived , mentored and produced the following : i am ... ( 2021 ) storytelling project -- 28 short films by 28 graduate students exploring identity and belonging ; Under the Tent ( 2022 ) 18 creative projects unpacking Canadian multiculturalism ; WhereWeStand ( 2023 -- 2024 ) eight creative projects each paired with Indigenous and non-Indigenous participants . <p> Sundar Singh has produced across a range of genres including documentary , reality , food and lifestyle for various international broadcasters including BellMedia , CBC , VisionTV , Smithsonian Channel , Discovery Channel and MuchMusic . His writings have been published in poetry anthologies , academic journals and peer-reviewed medical journals . <h> Executive director , Elspeth Heyworth Centre for Women <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : India <p> Sunder Singh immigrated to Canada over 52 years ago along with her family from India . The greater part of her professional career has been spent identifying community issues and finding viable solutions for them . She holds a bachelor of commerce degree from the University of Windsor and has completed her leadership program from Schulich School of Business , York University . <p> In 2023 , Singh received the Order of Vaughan , as well , she received the Toronto Community Champion Award for her extraordinary contributions to support the health and solidarity of the residents throughout the pandemic . In 2019 , she received the Pioneer for Change Award and the Police Foundation Award . In June 2017 , Singh was appointed a local and regional councillor for the City of Vaughan . She served in this role for 15 months to fill in the position of then recently resigned councillor . In 2016 , she was given the Leading Women Building Communities Award presented to her by the Minister Responsible for Women 's Issues . In 2012 , she was awarded the Queen 's Jubilee Medal for her significant contribution to the community services . <p> Her active interest in empowering thousands of women , under the " Reduce Abuse " program , resulted in the organization being awarded the 2015 Attorney General 's Victim Services Award of Distinction and the Toronto Mayor 's Community Safety Award in 2011 . In the community , Singh frequently engages with residents and talks about possible solutions to empower women and reduction of domestic violence from our society . She has played an active role to place women in business and help them lead a self-sustaining life of dignity . <p> Singh is currently the executive director of Elspeth Heyworth Centre for Women . She has been serving newcomer women and their families since 1993 . She started a social enterprise named RivInt Interpretation and Translation Services , currently providing income opportunities to over 850 interpreters and translators speaking total of 110 languages , mainly immigrants , serving the hospitals and corporate sector in the GTA . The income from this social enterprise covers the core costs and women 's programs of the community organization that Singh operates . <p> Ashwini Selvakumaran <h> Youth social justice and environmental advocate <p> City : Milton , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Malaysia <p> At 21 years old , Ashwini Selvakumaran never imagined that she would found a registered non-profit in her community of Milton , Ontario . Today , at just 23 years of age , she is the proud president of Brown Citizen Circle ( BCC ) , which helps BIPOC youth navigate structural barriers to representation through collective action . <p> A young South Asian woman herself , Selvakumaran identified a critical need to provide a platform for fellow BIPOC voices , which are overlooked across social and cultural institutions . Ashwini describes herself as having a tri-identity , being South Asian-Canadian with Malaysian roots . Immigrating to Canada in 2012 , Selvakumaran recalls teaching herself early on to lose her accent to belong in social settings . She has since sought to reclaim her tri-identity on her own terms . <p> BCC is invested in amplifying the critical and creative perspectives of South Asian youth across Canada . To garner support for her vision , Selvakumaran created lasting partnerships , most notably with the David Suzuki Foundation and the Canadian Race Relations Foundation . She raised over $15,000 through these partnerships to fund BCC initiatives , including an upcoming panel with Northeastern University ( Toronto Campus ) that mobilizes South Asians in industry success . <p> Intersecting with her advocacy for South Asian youth , Selvakumaran also makes great strides as a climate activist . She won the Youth Volunteer of the Year Award with the Iroquoia Bruce Trail Board in 2021 through a placement with the FORA Rise on Boards program , which connects women to non-profit boards . She continues to research environmental policy and justice by pursuing a master 's of environment and sustainability at Western University in London , Ontario . <p> Selvakumaran has been recognized with numerous accolades for her activism , including the Laadli in Leadership Award given to rising leaders of South Asian descent in Ontario , the Toronto City Hall 's Tamil Youth Fellowship Award , the Halton Newcomer Award and the prestigious Princess Diana Award . <p> Chairing the Halton Youth Newcomer steering committee since 2019 , Selvakumaran continues to empower South Asian youth to be changemakers in their communities . Her vision for BCC is to foster a sense of community and belonging among BIPOC individuals in Canada and globally . <p> Vivek Anand Savkur <h> Founder , BC India Business Network <p> City : Surrey , B.C. <p> Country of origin : India <p> Born in 1942 in southern India , Vivek Anand Savkur studied commerce and economics at Mumbai University and pursued a certificate in management at Indian Institute of Management , Ahmedabad . Prior to immigrating to Canada in 2007 , Savkur established himself as a successful businessman in many sectors , pursuing his passion for international trade and marketing . He also served as national president of Indo-Canadian Business Chamber ( ICBC ) . As a board member of the Indian Automotive Racing Club , he helped organize the first and second international Himalayan car rallies . <p> With 35 years of international business experience , Savkur immigrated to Canada and established the Savkur International Agency , a trading company that continues to strengthen trade ties through the BC India Business Network of which he is the founder ( 2015 ) and currently the president emeritus . <p> Savkur is a nationally recognized community leader and advisor who has worked closely with all levels of Canadian government to do business with Indian companies . He was instrumental in bringing the Times of India Film Awards to Vancouver in 2013 , working closely with the Government of BC , business and community leaders . He became the resident director of the Indo-Canadian Business Chamber in 2007 , was on the board of Luke 15 House and became the director of the Hope for Orphans Society in 2009 , which looks after and educates nearly 500 orphan girls . <p> He was also the chairman emeritus of the Canada India Education Council ( Western Canada chapter ) . Currently , he is a member of the Simon Fraser University India Advisory Council , sits on the steering committee of Trinity Western University and the University of Fraser Valley . He is the chair of the board of advisors of the Pacific Link College and sits on the board of the Vancouver International South Asian Film Festival . <p> Savkur was awarded an honorary doctorate ( Honoris Causa ) by Trinity Western University in 2023 and prior to that the Global Leadership Award , by the Global Emerging Leadership Programs ( GELP ) and the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal by the Governor General of Canada for his service and dedication to his peers , community and Canada . <p> Viviana Santibanez <h> Activist , founder and director <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Mexico <p> Born in Mexico , Viviana Santibanez 's journey took her to Canada in 2018 . She has been a community leader , having worked with marginalized communities for over 12 years , focusing on supporting refugees and newcomers in addition to advocating for members of the 2SLGBTQ+ Latinx community living with HIV . <p> Santibanez is also the first trans-Latina woman appointed to the board of directors of the Ontario HIV Treatment Network , Pride Toronto and the Race Base Data Collection Panel at the Toronto Police Service . <p> In 2019 , Santibanez founded Vivi'r , a non-profit organization that helps and supports 2SLGBTQ+ immigrants , newcomers and refugee Latinxs . As director of various programs and initiatives , she has consistently demonstrated dedication to uplifting and amplifying the voices of those who often find themselves facing multiple facets of marginalization and has empowered them through workshops on topics such as human trafficking , human rights , information sessions on creating tools to face deportations and report hate crimes , discrimination and harassment . <p> One of Vivi'r 's most remarkable aspects is its unwavering commitment to creating safe spaces where individuals from the Latinx LGBTQ+ community can come together , share their experiences and find solidarity in their journeys . This grassroots organization connects with the community and refers people to social , legal and health care services . The services provided operate through minimal financial support . <p> Using her apartment as an office , she provides consulting and settlement services to newcomers . Santibanez 's work with the 2SLGBTQ+ community has led to work with different communities , institutions and organizations that support the integration of Latinx people into Canada . She provides services for non-profit organizations such as Latinos Positivos Toronto , Toronto PWA Foundation , Hispanic Canadian Heritage Council , Canada Trans Summit , Ontario Cohort Studies and Toronto HQ . <p> Passionate about health care , Santibanez has an educational background in community health , nursing , community capacity building , and digital communications . Her latest community involvement is providing volunteer support to the Toronto Police Service as the first trans-Latina auxiliary officer . <p> She is also the first Latina awarded the Inspire LGBTQ Person of the Year in September 2022 by INSPIRE Awards , and she has been recognized as among the 10 most influential Hispanic Canadians since 2022 . <p> Seoung min Rim <h> Taekwondo grandmaster <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Republic of Korea ( South Korea ) <p> Grandmaster Seoung min Rim 's remarkable journey from the heart of taekwondo in Seoul , Korea , to becoming a revered member of the Canadian community is a testament to his unwavering commitment to excellence and tireless dedication to personal and community development . <p> Arriving in Canada with little more than a white uniform and a black belt , Grandmaster Rim 's story embodies the essence of the Canadian dream . Over the past 13 years , he has distinguished himself as the Canadian National Team Head Coach , guiding numerous athletes to podium finishes in prestigious events like the Pan American Games and World Championships . His coaching prowess has consistently propelled Canadian taekwondo athletes to victory , showcasing his leadership and talent development acumen . <p> Grandmaster Rim 's impact extends beyond the national level . He has conducted hundreds of seminars for coaches and athletes across Canada , from the territories to the far east , as well as for continental and international taekwondo federations . Operating taekwondo studios throughout the province , his dedication to teaching has empowered practitioners of all ages to enhance their mental and physical wellbeing while instilling values of respect and discipline . His school 's excellence was recognized with the Business of the Year Award by the Red Deer &amp; District Chamber of Commerce . <p> In acknowledgment of his contributions , Grandmaster Rim has received commendations and acknowledgment from three governments , including recognition from the Minister of Culture , Sports and Tourism of the Republic of Korea , the Premier of Alberta and the Minister of Sports in Ukraine . His tireless efforts in promoting taekwondo internationally and fostering positive community impact have garnered widespread acclaim . <p> Grateful for the opportunities afforded to him by Canada , Grandmaster Rim is committed to giving back . He actively supports various humanitarian projects , providing financial assistance to organizations such as Ronald McDonald House and offering aid to Ukrainian refugees . Additionally , he extends generous contributions to athletes in financial need from Korea , Ukraine and Canada , further exemplifying his dedication to empowering individuals and communities through the practice of taekwondo . <p> Sahib Singh Rana <h> Entrepreneur <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : India <p> Sahib Singh Rana , an immigrant entrepreneur and co-founder of Lazeez Shawarma , epitomizes the Canadian dream through resilience , innovation and a profound commitment to community . Recognized as the " Immigrant Entrepreneur of the Year " for 2020 , Rana 's journey began in 1989 when he embarked on his immigration to Canada . <p> In 2013 , Rana , alongside his business partner Nada Nasri , established Lazeez Shawarma , a culinary venture driven by their shared passion for Middle Eastern and Mediterranean cuisine . With a focus on authenticity and quality , Lazeez Shawarma quickly flourished into a network of over 60 restaurants , a testament to Rana 's entrepreneurial acumen and dedication . <p> Central to his success is his unwavering belief in treating franchisees like family . This ethos has not only fostered a sense of unity within the Lazeez Shawarma community , but has also allowed the business to actively contribute to initiatives that promote inclusivity and social cohesion . <p> Rana actively contributes to significant initiatives that exemplify Canada 's pride and spirit . He is a devoted supporter of esteemed organizations such as Veterans Canada , championing Canada Day celebrations and working toward distributing one million Canadian flags to foster patriotism and unity across the nation . Additionally , Lazeez is a proud sponsor of Team Canada 's Women 's and Men 's Basketball teams at the FIBA World Cup and the Paris Olympics , demonstrating his unwavering commitment to promoting Canadian excellence on the global stage . <p> Rana 's philanthropic efforts extend further as vice president of community services for Canadian Eyesight Global , where he has facilitated life-changing surgeries for over 50,000 individuals worldwide , showcasing his impact on a global scale . <p> He remains a devoted family man , prioritizing his wife , two daughters ( a health entrepreneur , and a lawyer ) and grandchildren . His values of love , unity and support shine through , making him a role model not only in business but also in family life . <p> His outstanding contributions have garnered him accolades such as the Community Services Award by the Toronto Real Estate Board ( TREB ) . His leadership , entrepreneurship and dedication to family and community epitomize the Canadian dream , inspiring others to pursue their aspirations while making a positive impact on society . <p> Pangan has 30+ years of experience in scientific , academic , news , content writing and menu/recipe writing . She 's been a licensed dietitian in the Philippines since 1992 and has extensive knowledge of public health , research , menu development and food product standardization . Pangan also received a three-year degree equivalent in a Canadian education program in nutrition and dietetics in 2024 . <p> She passionately volunteers with multicultural communities . She holds key positions in several organizations , including president of the Filipino Society for the Arts &amp; Culture in Alberta , secretary of the Asian Media Federation of Canada , coordinator of the RISEC Community Foundation and mentor at the Calgary Region Employment &amp; Immigrant Council . She is also a Filipino National Congress of Canada active member and was the DA Society 's executive director . <p> Pangan advocates for diversity and inclusivity by organizing and hosting community events , food festivals , galas and fundraisers that have brought together people from different backgrounds and cultures . Her efforts have been instrumental in raising awareness about important issues such as racism and promoting understanding and unity among communities . She has also been a collaborator in helping establish the Philippine Consular Office in Alberta/Saskatchewan designating June as Philippine Heritage Month , as well as establishing various award programs . <p> Pangan is an excellent event organizer who has managed successful events , including a Meet-and-Greet and Dialogue with Premier Smith . She coordinates the Globalfest Philippine Cultural Pavilion &amp; Food Kiosk and hosts food festivals such as Pearl of the Orient Cuisines , Balik Kultura and Philippine Cuisine Festival Galas . <h> Founder and CEO , OneDrug Inc. and pharmaceutical scientist , University of Toronto <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Nigeria <p> Named chair of the pharmacokinetics , pharmacodynamics and drug metabolism community of the American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists USA in 2023 , Chukwunonso Nwabufo leads a community of more than 1,200 pharmaceutical scientists from reputable pharmaceutical and academic organizations across the globe to support the advancement of pharmaceutical sciences and the development of transformational medicines for unmet medical needs . <p> In 2022 , Nwabufo ranked Top 11.65% out of 515 national applicants across Canada and was awarded the prestigious Canadian Institutes of Health Research Doctoral Award valued at $105,000 to support his research work on the improvement of the clinical efficacy and safety profile of promising COVID-19 drugs . He has received over 20 awards worth more than $400,000 in total funding awards including the Ontario Graduate Scholarship , Pfizer Canada Graduate Fellowship , Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy Deans Fellowship and Michael Smith Foreign Study Supplements Award . <p> At Gilead Sciences , Nwabufo contributed to the successful development of two life-saving medicines for the treatment of COVID-19 and HIV . As the founder and CEO of OneDrug Inc. , Nwabufo is leading the development of smart point-of-care technologies that will empower healthcare providers to personalize patient treatments based on their genotypes to help them get well sooner , minimize adverse drug effects and save healthcare costs . <p> OneDrug has been named one of the top key players in pharmacogenomics by the World Research Report . Nwabufo is an accomplished pharmaceutical scientist with 15 peer-reviewed scientific publications and seats on the editorial board of Drug Metabolism Reviews and Journal of Applied Bioanalysis . <p> Nwabufo 's substantial scientific influence has led to the establishment of two international partnerships in Canada . He has mentored over 30 students and continually serves as a judge for the SRHacks coding and engineering competition for high school students . Recently , Nwabufo was honoured as the recipient of the 2024 African Scholars Emerging Academic Award . <p> Born and raised in Nigeria , Nwabufo is the second of five siblings and has called Canada home since 2017 as a first-generation immigrant . He holds a BSc in biochemistry , an MSc in pharmacy , an MBA , and is currently a PhD candidate in pharmaceutical sciences , all with distinction . <p> Hazel Mae <h> Sportscaster and fashion designer <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Philippines <p> Hazel Mae is a Filipino-Canadian sportscaster and fashion designer . Mae is currently the sideline reporter for the MLB 's Toronto Blue Jays on Rogers Sportsnet . A trailblazer in her industry , Mae was one of the first females to break into the sports broadcasting industry in Canada . Her baseball knowledge and insight stem from her experience working with the New England Sports Network ( NESN ) and the MLB Network in the U.S. before returning home to Canada . <p> Off the diamond , Mae founded Hazel Mae Design to deliver what she had trouble finding in the marketplace -- a line of dresses made from high-quality ponte fabric in vibrant , jewel-toned colours , designed to flatter the female figure . <p> Soraya Lozano <h> Dancer , instructor and choreographer <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Peru <p> Soraya Lozano is the founder and artistic director of Estampa Peruana and Inspiracion Latina Dance Company . She is a versatile and highly trained dancer , instructor and choreographer who has been involved in fitness , dance and the performing arts her entire life and has extensive training in gymnastics , fitness , and Peruvian and Latin dances . <p> Lozano was a member of several dance companies in Peru and Canada . She was part of the ballet of the circus of the famous Peruvian TV show Mil Oficios and performed at the Toronto 2015 Pan Am Games closing ceremony as well as dance congresses , festivals and shows in Peru , Bermuda , U.S.A. , France , Spain and Canada . She participated in music videos of singers Hadel Toma ( Assyrian ) , Senthil Kumaran ( Tamil ) , Teria Morada and Sensei Musica ( Canadian ) . <p> Lozano choreographed and performed for the concerts of singers Manuel Donayre ( Peruvian ) , Rosario Arce ( Bolivian ) , Leo Rey ( Chilean ) and Yara Orozco ( Colombian ) . She was also the back-up dancer of American actress and model Nargis Fakhri . Lozano was part of the international cast of " Follow Your Heart , " a Middle Eastern spectacle in Richmond Hill . <p> Lozano volunteered as a dance instructor for MIAG ( Multicultural Inclusion to Achieve Growth ) , as a roundtable host for the Institute for Canadian Citizenship and she is part of the executive committee of the KPMG Latin American Network . <p> Lozano is the award winner of the Toronto Waterfront Awards 2018 -- Celebrating Outstanding Women in the category of Arts and Culture . She won the Woman on Fire Award 2019 in the category of Best Performer as well . Also , she has received recognition from the Peruvian community in Canada as " Peruvian Pride " and Ambassador of Peruvian dances in Canada for her great artistic trajectory and hard work to promote Peruvian dances . <p> Lozano shares her passion for dancing and fitness with her students . With her combination of fitness and dancing skills , she aims not only to assist others on the path to fitness , but to conduct classes that are fun and energetic and unleash the hidden dancer in her students <p> Burcu Kaptan <h> Founder , 10Fold-HFX <p> City : Halifax , Nova Scotia <p> Country of origin : Turkiye <p> Named one of Atlantic Canada 's Most Inspiring Immigrants in 2024 , Burcu Kaptan 's journey reflects resilience , determination and a profound commitment to social responsibility . <p> Originally from Ankara , Turkiye , she began her Canadian journey in 2002 , settling in Halifax , Nova Scotia , while eight months pregnant , establishing roots . Just like the newcomers she supports today , Kaptan faced numerous challenges as a permanent resident , navigating the unfamiliar territory of a new country without her established support systems as an immigrant woman and mother . <p> With her international experience and post-graduate studies in human resources management from both Istanbul University and NSCC in Atlantic Canada , she embarked on a journey of professional growth intertwined with community empowerment . <p> Kaptan 's advocacy extends to identifying talent and supporting individuals to reach their potential , especially immigrant women , and advocating for role models in senior leadership positions . As president of Turkish Society of Nova Scotia , her efforts inspire newcomers to work toward their futures and stay in the Atlantic region and Canada . Her dedication to fostering inclusive communities earned her recognition as a leader committed to social impact , diversity and supporting the Turkish community . This recognition was further solidified by her active involvement in community relief efforts following the Turkish earthquake , where she played a pivotal role in supporting the reunification of affected families . <p> Furthermore , leveraging diverse platforms , Kaptan has dedicated herself to linking different generations of immigrants , spanning from children to international students , newcomers and emerging businesses , with Canadian partners throughout the year . Through her LinkedIn and Instagram account @KanadaliKadin , she has built a community of over 5,000 women from Canada and Turkiye , offering guidance on navigating the Canadian experience . She continuously works toward gender equality for women and accessibility to information for newcomers , fostering genuine opportunities for integration . <p> After a 20-year Canadian corporate career and public service , Kaptan has embarked on yet another journey as an entrepreneur in digital HR , establishing 10Fold-HFX . Her focus extends beyond sharing her expertise in systemic change and digitizing people and culture programs ; she is committed to supporting the immigrant community and working on a project for the integration of newcomers and building a stronger and more inclusive community across Canada . <p> Beyond her professional endeavours , she stands tall not only for herself but also for all immigrant women across Canada who are redefining success despite the barriers they face and striving to reach their true potential . Moreover , she serves as a founding executive committee member of the Canadian Turkish Business Council-Women 's Network , further supporting her commitment to empowering immigrant women . <p> Her journey serves as a testament to the transformative power of determination and community building , embodying the resilience and spirit of immigrants who enrich their environments with diverse perspectives and experiences they bring to the table . Kaptan fittingly concludes her community speeches with the profound reminder that in a community , there is no " me " or " you , " only " we , " and together , we are stronger . <p> Freida Chavez <h> Nursing academic <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Philippines <p> Freida Chavez , professor emerita , University of Toronto , was born and raised in the Philippines . The political climate of the early 1970s prompted her decision to immigrate to Canada , driven by a desire to sponsor her parents and siblings , all of whom successfully joined her in Toronto . <p> Her journey stands as a beacon of inspiration for immigrants , epitomizing her achievements in global health and nursing leadership . It is a testament not only to her exceptional strengths but also to her adeptness at seizing opportunities , her affable demeanour , and the qualities instilled by her Filipino heritage . <p> With expertise spanning health systems leadership , academia and board governance , Chavez has an indelible mark . As the founding director of the Global Affairs Office at the University of Toronto 's Faculty of Nursing for two terms , she fostered innovative partnerships across continents including Africa , Asia , Europe , North and South America . <p> A trailblazer in curricular reform , she champions the transformation of health professional education , introducing groundbreaking interprofessional courses in global health and primary health care . Her seminal work includes authoring the World Health Organization 's publication on Interprofessional Collaborative Practice in Primary Health Care , Nursing , and Midwifery Perspectives , reflecting her passion for infusing global perspectives into education and practice . <p> Her leadership extends to collaborative projects on nursing leadership and capacity building in primary health care between Brazil and Canada . Chavez scholarly endeavours encompass a breadth of areas , from global citizenship to public health . <p> Recognized for her outstanding contributions , she has received numerous accolades , including the Distinguished Alumni Award , Case Western Reserve University , School of Nursing at the 2023 centennial celebration . As a fellow of the prestigious American Academy of Nursing , she sits on the Global Health Expert Panel , where she continues to champion equity . <p> Driven by a commitment to advancing Filipino nurses ' careers , she founded the Alliance of Filipino Nursing Professionals in Canada , formerly known as the Philippine Nurses ' Association of Canada . Additionally , she serves on several not-for-profit boards and lends her expertise to various advisory panels including the Internationally Educated Nurses Mentorship Advisory Committee . <p> Tobias Q. Brown <h> Business owner <p> City : Surrey , B.C. <p> Country of origin : United States of America <p> Where culinary mastery meets community engagement , Tobias Q. Brown has propelled Tommie 's Jerk to unparalleled success in British Columbia 's culinary landscape . In a mere three years , his unwavering dedication to excellence has catapulted Tommie 's Jerk to the pinnacle of Caribbean dining , ranking it as a premier choice in the province and a top contender nationwide . <p> Brown 's commitment extends beyond the kitchen , evident in his recognition as a National Finalist in six categories of the Canadian SME National Business Awards , including esteemed titles like : Immigrant Entrepreneur of the Year , Small Business of the Year , Best Professional Services , Customer Service Excellence , Entrepreneur of the Year and Inspirational Leader of the Year . His relentless pursuit of excellence and steadfast dedication to community involvement mark him as a true trailblazer in the culinary sphere . <p> With a discerning eye for innovation , Brown has garnered attention from esteemed media outlets such as Global News , CBC and Joy TV , as well as international acclaim from Food &amp; WineMagazine , which hailed Tommie 's Jerk as a culinary gem in Surrey , among the World 's Best Emerging food cities . <p> Amidst his array of achievements , his commitment to community service shines brightly , notably through transformative efforts at Aldergrove Secondary . Through mentorship in their work and volunteer experience program , Brown seamlessly intertwines culinary education with community support , leaving an enduring impact on the international student community . By transforming the school 's kitchen into a dynamic learning environment , he not only nourishes but also empowers students , fostering a culture of mentorship and knowledge exchange that transcends the classroom . <p> Moreover , Brown 's accolades as the 2023 Winner of the BIPOC Foundation 's Top 10 Black Entrepreneur of the Year and Top 10 Black Business of the Year underscore his impact and influence in both the culinary and business arenas . <p> Carl E. James , PhD <h> Educator , professor and researcher <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Antigua , the Caribbean <p> Winner of Canada Council for the Arts ' prestigious 2022 Killam Prize in Social Sciences , Carl E. James is said to have spent " his career studying how to create a more equitable society and was among the first to tackle and name issues of racial inequity . " His trailblazing interdisciplinary research into racialization has helped to reshape how educational institutions ( school boards ) , community organizations and government agencies ( e.g. , Statistics Canada ) research , understand and address issues of inequity that structure the educational and social policies , programs and practices responsible for the lived experiences and trajectories of marginalized individuals . <p> Interviewed about his work on CBC Radio by Nahlah Ayed on the Ideas program in 2022 , producer , Tom Howell writes under the headline : " Change the system " quoting James as saying : " We just can not think one approach is going to fit all our students and enable them to be successful . " <p> Starting out as a youth worker in Regent Park , Toronto , James went on to become a professor at York University where he teaches in the Faculty of Education with cross-appointments in the graduate programs of sociology , social and political thought , and social work . <p> A resident of Canada for more than 50 years , James , who holds a PhD in sociology , has authored , co-authored , edited and co-edited books 24 books -- among them his seminal text , Seeing Ourselves : Exploring Race , Ethnicity and Identity ( 2010 ) now in its fourth edition and thousands of copies sold . Through longitudinal studies he has contributed to in-depth understandings of the experiences of marginalized youth . From his first major study : Making It : Black Youth , Racism and Career Aspiration in a Big City , 1990 , James made a short film : Making It in 2006 for the National Film Board ( NFB ) Work for All series , and has written , Colour Matters : Essays on the Experiences , Education , and Pursuits of Black Youth ( 2021 ) a retrospective of his writings from the 1990s to the present . <p> Another publication co-authored with Leanne Taylor is First-Generation Student Experiences in Higher Education ( 2023 ) in which they analyzed the experiences and attainments of former university students some 18 years later . <p> In addition to being a visiting scholar at several universities in Canada , James has also lectured at universities in the United States , Australia , Jamaica , and in Sweden where he taught in the Teacher Training Department ( 1997-2013 ) , Uppsala University , from where he received an Honorary Doctorate ( 2006 ) . A fellow of the Royal Society of Canada , he is also recipient of many community and teaching awards including : Outstanding Contribution Award , Canadian Sociological Association ( CSA ) ( 2020 ) ; Graduate Faculty Teaching Award ( 2017 ) , York University ; Harry Jerome Professional Excellence Award , Black Business &amp; Professional Association ( BBPA ) ( 2013 ) ; and William P. Hubbard Award for Race Relations , City of Toronto ( 2008 ) . <p> Usha George , PhD . <h> Professor and dean , Faculty of Community Services , Toronto Metropolitan University <p> City : Markham , Ontario <p> Country of origin : India <p> Usha George , PhD , is recognized for her expertise in newcomer settlement and integration . Her main areas of teaching , research and professional activity are social work with diverse communities , and newcomer settlement and integration , with an emphasis on examining policies and programs to ensure newcomers have the supports they need to settle and become contributing members to Canadian society . <p> George is professor and dean at the Faculty of Community Services , Toronto Metropolitan University . As the dean , she oversees nine professional schools in the area of health and human services , with undergraduate and graduate programs , some of which are the largest in Canad <p> George came to the university in 2006 from the Faculty of Social Work at the University of Toronto , where she had served as the associate dean and interim dean , and held the Royal Bank Chair in Applied Social Work Research . She also served as the director of the national Joint Centre of Excellence for Research on Immigration and Settlement . <p> George is a distinguished scholar and researcher in the areas of newcomer settlement and integration , and diversity and organizational change . She is well published and is frequently quoted in the Canadian media on newcomer settlement and multicultural issues . <p> Gervan Fearon , PhD . <h> President , George Brown College <p> City : Toronto Country of origin : England <p> Gervan Fearon , PhD , is president of George Brown College . An accomplished economist , scholar and teacher , he brings his vision for the transformative impacts of education to leading one of Canada 's most culturally diverse , urban post-secondary institutions . <p> Recognized for his ability to inspire and move teams toward positive and constructive change , Fearon collaborates across the college to support career-focused programs , advance applied research and innovation , and promote community development . <p> Fearon has an esteemed record of progressive leadership positions in higher education . He served as the president and vice-chancellor at Brock University in Ontario and Brandon University in Manitoba ( where he also served as provost and vice-president , academic ) . Prior to his presidential appointments , he was dean of the G. Raymond Chang School of Continuing Education at Toronto Metropolitan University , associate dean at York University 's Atkinson Faculty of Liberal and Professional Studies ( where he also held a faculty position ) and was a visiting scholar at the University of Washington . <p> Fearon began his career as an economist and policy advisor in government . Improving social and economic mobility through education is one of Fearon 's areas of expertise , and he shares his insights around the world . He currently chairs the external reference group for the federal government 's Supporting Black Canadian Communities Initiative and is a board member with the Ontario Chamber of Commerce , Niagara Health and Ingenium -- Canada 's museums of science and innovation . He also co-founded the Canada Caribbean Institute with Sir Hilary Beckles , vice-chancellor , the University of the West Indies . <p> His work has been recognized with the Order of Ontario , Queen Elizabeth II Platinum and Diamond Jubilee Medals , and the Micha ? lle Jean Foundation Influencer Award , among other honours . <p> Fearon earned a PhD in economics from Western University and received his master 's and bachelor of science degrees in agricultural economics from the University of Guelph . He holds a Chartered Professional Accountant designation ( CPA , CGA ) and an Institute of Corporate Directors designation ( ICD.D ) . <p> Elizabeth Coker-Farrell , PhD . <h> Entrepreneur and assistant professor <p> City : Edmonton <p> Country of origin : Nigeria <p> Elizabeth Coker-Farrell , PhD , is a wife , mother , owner , mentor , public speaker , entrepreneur and assistant professor of business management at Concordia University of Edmonton , Alberta . Born in Nigeria , she immigrated to Canada in 2018 from her then home of Cyprus-Turkey , where she started her family and earned a master 's degree in health care organizational management at Cyprus International University , as well as a PhD in business administration , specializing in human resources management . <p> Less than two years arriving in Canada , Coker-Farrell put in the necessary work and completed needed assessments to validate her international qualifications and trainings . This led to her success in landing a faculty position at the Concordia University of Edmonton . Less than a year into the job , she was appointed the department chair for the faculty of business management and was responsible for the leadership and management of the faculty 's resource team , while delivering excellent academic deliverables . This speaks to her high level of discipline in time management , dedication , commitment and hard work toward achieving goals set before her , while also balancing her family life . <p> As a researcher , she focuses on population and organizational human resources , and advocates for development of a healthy working population in Alberta , focusing on healthy and safe workplace , mental health and other correlated variables . She has presented her research findings on world stage conferences such as the Alberta Innovates -- Inventures , Academy of African Business and Development ( AABD ) , nursing conference Canada , Diversity and Inclusion Canada , among others . Her publications are featured in peer-reviewed journals , social science citation index journals , and IEEE for a wide broad readership of scholars . <p> Coker-Farrell is compassionate and passionate about community development ; hence , her volunteerism and services as a board of director for Habitat for Humanity Alberta , an academic outreach director for Project Management Institute -- Northern Alberta Chapter ( PMI-NAC ) , mentor at Chartered Professional of Human Resources ( CPHR ) , mentor at Edmonton Region Immigrant Employment Council ( ERIEC ) , mentor at Mentorship &amp; Resilience program at Concordia University of Edmonton , mentor at Norquest College mentorship program , coach at Hope City Church , and more . <p> Elizabeth obtained her first degree in Computer Science from the University of Jos in Nigeria . She then went on to complete her Her professional qualifications include Project Management Professional ( PMP ) , Chartered Professional in Human Resources ( CPHR ) , Oracle Certified Professional ( OCP ) , among others . <p> Ashid Bahl <h> President and founder , For the Love of Children Society of Alberta <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Kenya <p> An enthusiastic philanthropist , prolific writer , poet and artist , Ashid Bahl is the president and founder of For the Love of Children Society of Alberta , a charity aid organization . He was only 11 years old when he started giving his lunch and toys to less fortunate children in his Kenyan school and the process of giving never stopped for him when he immigrated to Canada . <p> This year marks the 44th anniversary of Bahl 's aid work with his society , providing millions of dollars of aid in supplies , support and manpower to build stable orphanages and schools and to deliver medicine and healing methods that would otherwise be unavailable . A human rights activist who fights against the human trafficking of children , it is estimated that his work with the society has helped over one million children in Canada and abroad . <p> He has personally gone to help the victims of major natural disasters worldwide , which included countries like Haiti , Sri Lanka , Kenya , Guatemala , Japan , Philippines , Honduras , Costa Rica , Mexico , Kashmir , India and Canada , recently risking his life to help his interpreters to escape from Afghanistan , helping vulnerable children and their families in Ukraine , and helping orphaned children in Gaza . <p> Bahl has demonstrated a lifetime commitment to philanthropy in supporting healthy and vibrant communities of children across the globe . No one in the organization gets paid to do the charitable work . The vital funding he has provided stems from countless hours of volunteering and fundraising . He has singlehandedly raised over $15 million worth of aid to help the less fortunate around the world . <p> Bahl 's recent directorial debut of For the Love of Children , a film documenting his life 's work , won the coveted Angel Trophy Award for Best Film at the Angel Film Awards . <p> Bahl has received several awards including Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II Golden Jubilee Medal , the Prime Minister of Canada 's Volunteer Medal , the Reader 's Digest award/Canadian Hero of 2007 , the Alberta Centennial Medal from the Province of Alberta and more . <p> As a visionary leader , she was influential in having the Ontario government develop and implement the Healthy Babies Healthy Children Program in 1998 . This program bridges the gap between hospital and community care for mothers and newborn babies . In 2008-2009 , she advocated for the Ontario government to amend the Highway Traffic Act : Distractive Driving and Passenger Safety , to reduce motor vehicle injuries due to texting , drinking and driving in Ontario . This act was amended in September 2009 . <p> In 2022 , she and the chief executive officer of the RNAO launched the groundbreaking report : Acknowledging , Addressing , Tackling Anti-Black Racism and Discrimination in the Nursing Profession . This resulted in many television ( CP24 , CTV , CBS ) , newspaper ( Toronto Star , and the Globe &amp; Mail ) and radio ( CBC Radio Ottawa ) interviews . <p> She has received academic and service awards such as : Lifetime Achievement Award &amp; Leadership in Student Mentorship ( 2022 ) , Leadership Awards in Political Action ( 2013 ) , and Award of Merit ( 2015 ) from the RNAO ; UofT Distinguished Alumnus Award ( 2007 ) ; Ontario Public Health Association Leadership Award ( 2010 ) ; and Award of Excellence , Regional Municipality of Durham ( 2006 ) . In 2022 , she was inducted to the Order of Ontario and appointed to the Order of Canada . <p> She holds a PhD in nursing from the University of Toronto ( UofT ) , master of nursing from the University of Manitoba , bachelor in nursing from Memorial University , NFLD and is a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing . She has national and international nursing experience in leadership , nursing administration , education , policy advocacy , mental health and maternal-child nursing . She has taught undergraduate and graduate students at UofT and OTU and has mentored numerous nurses . Her areas of research are preventing type 2 diabetes , culturally tailored interventions , and systemic racism in nursing . <p> Cooper Brathwaite immigrated to Canada as a registered nurse ( RN ) and midwife in 1975 and is the fifth child of seven children . <p> Recognized in Canada and internationally for his contributions to global sustainable development , Chukwunta serves as a United Nations Affiliated Technical Reviewer , a member of Canada 's Sustainable Development Advisory Council ( SDAC ) and a member of the Commonwealth Engineers Council ( CEC ) Board . <p> From an invitation to Buckingham Palace by HM King Charles III for a reception with The King and The Queen Consort on Commonwealth Day , 2023 , to engaging with world leaders and policymakers at the United Nations , the Commonwealth and multinational engagements , Chukwunta expresses his passion as an advocate for clean energy and sustainable development . <p> Chukwunta led the climate action working group at the World Federation of Engineering Organisations ( WFEO ) , which was recognized by the United Nations Secretary General , the Conference of the Parties ( COP ) President and policymakers -- the WFEO represents national engineering institutions from 100 nations and over 30 million engineers , and the COP is the supreme decision-making body of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change . <p> In response to rapid urbanization and climate change across the Commonwealth , Chukwunta supported the Commonwealth Sustainable Cities Initiative ( CSCI ) and partners to curate the Declaration on Sustainable Urbanisation , which was adopted by the 56 Commonwealth Heads of Government . Chukwunta also volunteers with the Commonwealth Sustainable Energy Transition ( CSET ) team where he supports Commonwealth energy ministries to develop and implement workable net-zero transition strategies . <p> Chukwunta works with the WFEO and UNESCO as a judge of the world engineering day hackathon , an annual global competition supporting youth innovation , and the development of policies , initiatives and projects with the potential to change the world . <p> Born and raised in Lagos , Nigeria , Chukwunta and his family migrated to Canada in 2018 , and are delighted to call Canada home . He holds a bachelor 's degree in civil engineering from the University of Nigeria Nsukka and a master 's degree in systems engineering and innovation from Imperial College London . <p> Mike Borlongan <h> Founder and volunteer <p> City : Milton , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Philippines <p> Mike Borlongan , an accomplished architectural hardware consultant , is renowned for his significant contributions to his community in Milton , Ontario . He has created a commendable life defined by determination , passion and altruism <p> Born and raised in Manila , Philippines , Borlongan 's early life was marked by his love for basketball . He played for his college team and was a proud member of the 1988-1989 National Collegiate Athletic Association Champion team . This early experience in sports not only honed his skills , but also instilled in him the values of teamwork and leadership . <p> In 1993 , he embarked on a life-changing journey , immigrating to Canada . He settled in Milton in 2003 , embracing it as his new home . Here , he combined his professional career and education with his enduring love for basketball . In 2005 , he founded the Milton Stags Youth Basketball Club , a not-for-profit basketball club . Starting with modest beginnings , the club has flourished under his guidance and now boasts over 2,500 members , a testament to Borlongan 's dedication and the club 's inclusive philosophy . <p> Aside from his professional pursuits and contributions to youth basketball , Borlongan is deeply committed to his family . A loving husband and father of two , he manages to balance his family life with his extensive community work . His role as a volunteer with the Town of Milton 's Community Services Advisory Committee from 2013 to 2017 further exemplifies his dedication to community service . He contributed his insights and expertise to various community projects , enhancing the quality of life for the residents of Milton . <p> Borlongan 's journey from a college basketball player in Manila to a respected community leader in Canada is an inspiring tale of perseverance and community engagement . His ability to impact lives through sports and service has made him an esteemed figure in Milton , where he continues to inspire and lead with passion and integrity . <p> Baharan Baniahmadi <h> Writer , actress and director <p> City : Vaudreuil-Dorion , Quebec Country of origin : Iran <p> In 2018 , writer , actress and director Baharan Baniahmadi moved to Canada from Iran . Immediately after arriving to Canada , she was able to take part in numerous initiatives and join the French and English language actors ' unions . Despite facing language challenges , she was a finalist chosen by the jury of Montreal Art Diversity ( DAM ) in 2019 . <p> She was invited to appear as a guest on numerous TV and radio shows and acted in numerous Canadian films and television shows . <p> As a filmmaker , her short film My name is Saba has been selected to BUEIFF Channel ( Buenos Aires International Film Festival ) , the Stone Flower Youth Film Festival ( Russia ) , Kalakari Film Fest ( India ) and the Serbia International Youth Film Festival . <p> She is also a published author . Two significant awards were given to her English-language book , Prophetess , the Blue Metropolis ( 2023 ) and Best Work of the Year from Quebec Writer Federation ( 2022 ) . <p> Her second book will shortly be released in French , making her a trilingual published writer . <p> She has made a lot of efforts for newcomers in the fields of cinema , theatre , dance , music and by launching Farm Land Festival in 2020 with her partner . She was able to create jobs for a great number of immigrants or newcomer artists and expand professional audience from urban areas to countryside . <p> Another example of her entrepreneurship for newcomers to Canada is co-founding the talent agency " On est la ! " , which now has over 100 members . Through it , she has given talented newcomers the chance to be seen in theatre , television and film . <p> In addition , in 2024 , she was one of the readers in CBC story writing contest . <p> Additionally , she has been an activist , standing for Iranian women during the Woman , Life , Freedom movement in Iran . <p> Anju Bajaj , PhD <h> STEM advisor , Manitoba Catholic Schools <p> City : Winnipeg Country of origin : India <p> Anju Bajaj , PhD , embarked on her journey from India to Canada in July 2005 , driven by a spirit of adventure and a thirst for new opportunities . Overcoming the culture shock , she embraced the Canadian experience , finding wonder in her first encounter with snow and gradually adapting to the rhythms of Winnipeg winters . <p> Completing her post-doctoral training at St. Boniface Research Centre in 2007 marked a significant milestone in Dr. Bajaj 's professional pathway . There she made notable contributions , before transitioning to pursue her true passion for teaching . She obtained her permanent teaching certificate in 2011 . <p> Bajaj 's commitment to advancing STEM ( science , technology , engineering and mathematics ) education is evident in her current roles . Serving as the STEM Advisor for Manitoba Catholic Schools , she plays a pivotal role in shaping STEM initiatives , while also inspiring students as a STEM educator at Holy Cross School . <p> Bajaj is deeply committed to community service . She founded the Bison Regional Science Fair in 2017 , providing a platform for budding scientists to showcase their talents . She was honoured with the very esteemed Mahatma Gandhi Centre of Canada Community Service Award in 2022 . This was not only for her work with the Canadian South Asian community but also the wider community , including the Black Manitoban 's Chamber of Commerce and many First Nation groups . <p> Throughout her career , Bajaj has been honoured with many other prestigious awards , including the Prime Minister National Award for Teaching Excellence in 2021 , and the Manitoba Excellence in Education Award in 2020 . Additionally , she has been recognized as the Outstanding Science Educator of the Year by the Bioscience Association of Manitoba in 2018 and received the Science Teacher Award from the Science Teacher Association of Manitoba in 2017 . <p> Bajaj 's journey from India to Canada exemplifies her unwavering pursuit of growth and opportunity . While she holds her Indian heritage close to her heart , Canada has provided her with the wings to soar and pursue her dreams . Through her dedication , resilience and commitment to education and community , Bajaj continues to shape the future of STEM education and inspire generations to come . <p> Crystal Hung <h> CEO , Icon Marketing <p> City : Vancouver <p> Country of origin : Taiwan <p> Crystal Hung is a Taiwanese-born , award-winning housing advocate and marketing executive . Starting with only $800 in her pocket upon graduating university in 2009 , Hung has since masterminded and led many notable community-oriented marketing initiatives addressing critical social and housing needs . <p> One example is pioneering Canada 's first " Condo Truck " -- a mobile condo buying experience for a 45-condo affordable East Vancouver condo development . By repurposing a retired Canada Post truck , Hung and her team achieved widespread media attention , a rapid sell-out of 35,000 square feet of condo inventory in a 20-square-foot mobile space , and a significant reduction in holding costs and constructions waste incurred by the development team compared to the traditional paradigm of building a brick-and-mortar presentation centre ; this enabled the developer to pass along savings to homeowners . <p> During the period of great uncertainty caused by COVID-19 , when many charitable foundations experienced disruption in their fundraising activities and a sharp decline in donation revenue , Hung leveraged her marketing background to co-found an ambitious project called PIXEL Moments . <p> PIXEL Moments was the creation of a large technology-driven and augmented-reality ( AR ) public art mural at one of the busiest intersections in Downtown Vancouver , with donors being encouraged to make $5 micro-donations to " purchase " individual pixels . When scanning the mural from a distance with a mobile device , the 80 ? 20-foot mural would come to life through AR technology enabling gathering remotely during the pandemic lockdown . Creatively bringing together this intersection of public art and technology , and using it as a vehicle for fundraising and creating awareness was the first of its kind in Western Canada -- raising $300,000 for the St. Paul 's Foundation . <p> Hung is winner of Business in Vancouver 's " Top 40 under 40 " and is the recipient of the " Great Trekker Award , " given by the Alma Mater Society of UBC to prominent alumni who have achieved eminence in their chosen field and made a worthy contribution to their community . She also kicked off a $300 million campaign for the UBC Sauder Powerhouse Project by personally donating $1 million , which will make business education and entrepreneurship more accessible for future generations . <p> Roselle M. Gonsalves , PhD . <h> Head of inclusion and reconciliation , ATB Financial <p> City : Porters Lake , Nova Scotia Country of origin : India <p> Born in India , Roselle M. Gonsalves immigrated to Canada in 1998 at age 13 . Dedicated to becoming Canadian , Gonsalves was curious to understand why her brown skin meant something different than it did before immigration . <p> To investigate , Gonsalves pursued a bachelor 's degree in neuropsychology and later a master 's in Gender Studies and Religious Studies , both from the University of Toronto . She also earned a PhD from the University of Calgary , undertaking an ethnographic study of identity and multiculturalism . <p> Gonsalves has also always been steadfast in her commitment to community service . In 2005 , her years of volunteering with the Canadian Cancer Society was recognized by a Volunteer Service Award from the Government of Ontario . She now contributes her knowledge and skills on the board of governors at Curling Canada and at the World Curling Federation . She is also a member of the global DEI council at the Boston College Centre for Corporate Citizenship . <p> Professionally , Gonsalves is the head of inclusion and reconciliation at ATB Financial , and brings over a decade of experience leading systemic change around equity , inclusion and socio-economic reconciliation with Indigenous communities . Recognized in 2022 as one of Edmonton 's Top 40 Under 40 for her career , Gonsalves is proud to have been a part of transformative inclusive change in diverse sectors , including social services , consulting and post-secondary education . <p> Gonsalves ' career is a reflection of her commitment to the values of inclusion and community , and deep gratitude to the Indigenous peoples on whose land she has had the immense opportunity to build her life as an immigrant settler . <p> Believing deeply in the power of storytelling to create bridges , in 2023 Gonsalves published her first book , a memoir , entitled The Ordinary Turned Precious . The book hit several of Amazon 's #1 Bestseller lists , including a few weeks at the top of the " Immigrant &amp; Emigrant Memoirs " category , an accomplishment that would seem so surreal to that 13-year-old who first arrived in Canada . <p> Gonsalves enjoys true crime podcasts , tattoos and a spicy mutton curry . With her partner Dustin , Gonsalves now makes her home in Mi'kma'ki , now called Nova Scotia . <p> Hon Lai ( Henry ) Chui <h> President , Results Advertising <p> City : Markham , Ontario <p> Country of origin : China <p> Hon Lai Chui , Henry , an immigrant to Canada since 1998 , has emerged as a prominent figure in community development and entrepreneurship . Graduating from Milliken Mills High School , he pursued his passion for marketing , earning a degree from McMaster University . <p> In 2009 , Chui founded Results Advertising , a thriving marketing agency known for its innovative campaigns and community engagement . Results Advertising has worked with prominent clients such as Toshiba , Midea Group , Menkes Developments , Tridel , Toronto Premium Outlets , T&amp;T Supermarket , Yee Hong Community Wellness Foundation and North York General Hospital . Beyond marketing services , the agency prioritizes social responsibility , actively engaging in initiatives benefiting the community . <p> Chui is also the founder of the Canadian Asian Heritage Association , dedicated to preserving and celebrating Asian culture and heritage in Canada . He successfully helped organize the inaugural Uptown Asian Festival in 2023 . <p> He is also one of the founders and chairs of the Outstanding Women Awards , recognizing and celebrating the achievements of women leaders in various fields . <p> Chui has been president of the Markham , Richmond Hill &amp; Vaughan Chinese Business Association since 2022 , advocating for the interests of Chinese businesses and fostering collaboration within the community . He is also vice president of the Cross-Cultural Community Services Association since 2023 , promoting diversity , inclusion and social cohesion through various programs and initiatives . He is a RESCO shareholder , director and partner . <p> Chui has received several awards including : <p> ACCE Awards 2018 , recognizing outstanding achievements and contributions to the Asian Canadian community . <p> Scarborough-Agincourt Silver Jubilee Medal at the 25th Anniversary of Scarborough-Agincourt Community , honouring exemplary service and dedication to the community . <p> Humanitarian Services Medal from Shaun Chen , M.P . of Scarborough North during COVID-19 , acknowledging his efforts in supporting vulnerable communities . <p> Platinum Jubilee of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II in 2022 , recognizing his outstanding contributions to community development and philanthropy . <p> Chui 's impactful contributions extend beyond entrepreneurship to community service and advocacy . He actively fosters cultural understanding and social cohesion while empowering women in leadership roles . His dedication to community enrichment and his numerous accolades underscore his commitment to making meaningful and lasting contributions to Canadian society . <p> Bardia Ilbeiggi <h> Chef and restaurateur <p> City : Vancouver <p> Country of origin : Iran <p> Bardia Ilbeiggi is the chef and sole owner of Delara , a modern Persian restaurant in Vancouver . <p> Ilbeiggi is one of the first people to apply meticulous classical cooking techniques to traditional dishes from Iran , elevating the flavours and textures to familiar yet surprising territory . He is passionate about sharing his Iranian heritage , making it more accessible through his thoughtful and delicious dishes , as well as a stylish environment and relaxed but kind service . Additionally , Ilbeiggi is dedicated to cooking seasonally and continues to evolve and improve Delara 's menu . <p> Ilbeiggi 's path to Delara included a career pivot from engineering to cooking . Born and raised in Tehran , Iran , he immigrated to Canada in 2003 to attend university , studying aerospace engineering at Carleton University in Ottawa . He then moved to Toronto and worked at IBM for several years after graduation . But while still a student , Ilbeiggi had discovered a passion for cooking , so after a few years he left his job to attend culinary school in Paris and begin his career as a chef . <p> Following his culinary training , Ilbeiggi worked at Michelin-starred Frenchie in Paris , then returned to Vancouver and worked at L'Abattoir and Farmer 's Apprentice , as well as a stint at Michelin-starred Relae in Copenhagen . He steadily worked his way through the kitchen ranks , and after 10 years of restaurant experience focused mainly on French and Pacific Northwest techniques and ingredients , Ilbeiggi set about developing his own restaurant concept , and opened Delara in summer 2021 . <p> Ilbeiggi is steadily gaining accolades both locally and nationally -- most recently , he was named a 2023 Business in Vancouver Top Forty Under 40 winner in recognition of his entrepreneurial and business achievements . Delara is included in the Vancouver Michelin Guide , and was longlisted as one of Canada 's best new restaurants in 2022 by Air Canada 's EnRoute magazine . <p> Ilbeiggi has been profiled by many publications including the Globe and Mail , Elle Canada magazine , Vancouver Sun , Nuvo magazine and Montecristo magazine . Delara is also in the curated Vancouver city guide on all Air Canada flights . <p> W. Andy Knight <h> Professor <p> City : Edmonton <p> Country of origin : Barbados <p> Andy Knight , provost fellow ( Black excellence and leadership ) , distinguished professor , University of Alberta , Fulbright distinguished chair in international and area studies ( Yale University ) , a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada , was born in Barbados , immigrated to Canada in 1977 and graduated with a BA from McMaster University . Elected McMaster Student Union 's first Black president ( 1982-83 ) , Knight also served on the executive councils of the Ontario Federation of Students ( OFS ) and the Canadian Federation of Students ( CFS ) . He was awarded the Honour ' M ' ( 1983 ) for outstanding contributions to student and community life at McMaster . Knight holds a MA ( Dalhousie 1986 ) and a PhD ( York 1995 ) . In his first job at L'Universit ? Bishop 's , Knight excelled in teaching , receiving the Chancellor 's Award for most outstanding teacher . <p> Hired by the University of Alberta in 1998 , Knight quickly rose to the rank of full professor in 2000 and served as department chair from 2009 to 2012 : receiving a number of teaching and research awards and founding the very popular Model UN Club for high school students in Edmonton . Knight has been visiting professor , Landegg University ( Zurich ) and United Nations University ( Tokyo ) . Wanting to give back to the region where he was born , Knight took a secondment to the University of the West Indies ( UWI ) , Trinidad &amp; Tobago ( 2013-2016 ) . There , he served as director of the Institute of International Relations ( IIR ) , co-founded/directed the Diplomatic Academy of the Caribbean ( DAOC ) , and established the HUB of the Caribbean Child Rights Observatory Network ( CCRON ) under UNICEF . <p> Recipient of several research grants amounting to over $6 million , Knight has published 16 important books , 78 chapters in edited volumes and 67 peer-reviewed journal articles . As a public intellectual , Knight 's commentaries can be found in major newspapers , magazines , and on radio and TV in many parts of the globe . He hosts Blacktalk.ca , a popular podcast , and recently created a free online MOOC -- " Black Canadians : History , Presence , and anti-racist futures . " Named by Venture Magazine among Alberta 's top 50 most influential people , Knight is a past recipient of the Harry Jerome Trailblazer award by the Black Business and Professional Association of Canada . <p> Vishal Malpuria <h> Co-founder , Sparq Productions <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : India <p> Vishal Malpuria , one of the founders and creative minds behind Sparq Productions , along with his partner , Tania Lemos Malpuria , has dedicated his life to enriching Calgary 's arts scene and Calgary 's South Asian community , through a variety of annual productions including the ONE -- World Goes Bollywood , Stampede Bolly Flash Mob , Holi Hungama , Diwali Dhamaaka Dinner gala , Incredible India Fest , Educational Dance Programs in the Calgary Board of Education , Calgary Catholic School District , charter schools and many mor <p> Malpuria has over 30 years of experience with the world 's largest film industry , India and has brought it to Calgary . He is an enthusiastic and energetic professional choreographer and director whose mediums include corporate instruction , music video choreography and live dance performance choreography , both nationally and internationally . Having worked with numerous reputable artists within Bollywood cinema and having the experience of choreographing and working on live international concert performances , Malpuria was thrilled to bring his experience to Calgary , when he decided to make it his home , 20 years ago . <p> He has had the unforgettable opportunity of working with Oscar and Golden Globe winner A.R . Rahman of Slumdog Millionaire , as well as to open for Michael Jackson , for his concert in Mumbai , India . He and his partner were the only Bollywood choreographers chosen to put forward a team for Her Royal Highness Queen Elizabeth II , at the 2005 Alberta Centennial Celebrations held in Edmonton . <p> It was also an honour for him to be bestowed the Queen 's Golden Jubilee pin in Calgary . In 2015 , he received the South Asian Excellence Award for Cultural Icon . On November 19 , 2022 , he was honoured with the South Asian Inspiration Award for Outstanding Achievement in Arts , Culture and Entertainment . He is deeply honoured to have recently been awarded the Immigrants of Distinction Awards 2023 for Visual &amp; Performing Arts on November 2 , 2023 <p> Malpuria has been a fighter all his life , but more so when things took a downturn in 2015 on the medical front and he was put on the transplant list for a heart . With sheer blessings and gratitude , he received a heart on September 27 , 2015 . He fought his way to strength back again and got right into the community , teaching and producing events . <h> Lawyer <p> City : Brampton , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Jamaica <p> Vanassa Richards-Thompson was born in Jamaica and immigrated to Canada in 2004 . While previously a practising lawyer in Jamaica , she re-qualified in Canada and was called to the Ontario Bar in 2009 . Vanassa is a panel lawyer for Legal Aid Ontario and the Office of the Children 's Lawyer and passionately represents and serves the most vulnerable members of society , including visible minorities , immigrants , victims of domestic violence and at-risk children and youth . Richards-Thompson finds this fulfilling in the Peel Region , one of the most multiculturally diverse regions in Canada . <p> In 2021 , Richards-Thompson became the first-ever Black president in the Peel Law Association ( PLA ) ' s then 75-year history and was president until 2023 . She introduced the first Black History Month Celebrations to the PLA during the pandemic and in 2023 organized the first in-person Black History Month Celebrations at the courthouse , which was the largest courthouse event ever hosted by the PLA and has become an annual event . She proudly mentors new and young lawyers , especially women and is always seeking to encourage and empower youth . <p> In addition to her work with the PLA , Richards-Thompson sits on a number of outside committees and volunteers and supports community organizations serving vulnerable sections of the Peel community including the Knights Table , Regeneration , the Dream Never Dies Foundation and as a board member of Acorn2Oak Youth Services . <p> Richards-Thompson was a youth pastor at Faith Gospel Tabernacle Church in Brampton for several years and is currently that church 's Sunday School superintendent . She also spearheaded the creation of and currently leads a reading club in the community comprised primarily of children of Black and South Asian backgrounds <p> In February 2023 , Richards-Thompson was appointed a deputy judge of the Superior Court of Justice , Central West Region . She has authored several articles published in both Jamaican and Canadian media and is a sought-after , motivational speaker and poet . She has been the recipient of the Emerging Leader Award from the Women 's Law Association of Ontario , Ralf Jarchow Community Service Award from the Peel Law Association and the Women Achiever 's Award from the Indo-Canadian Women 's Federation . <p> Tania Lemos Malpuria <h> Co-founder , Sparq Productions <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : India <p> Tania Lemos Malpuria , one of the founders and creative minds behind Sparq Productions , along with her partner , Vishal Malpuria , has dedicated her life to enriching Calgary 's arts scene and Calgary 's South Asian Community , through a variety of annual productions including the ONE -- World Goes Bollywood , Stampede Bolly Flash Mob , Holi Hungama , Diwali Dhamaaka Dinner gala , Incredible India Fest , Educational Dance Programs in the Calgary Board of Education , Calgary Catholic School District , charter schools and many more . <p> Malpuria has over 30 years of experience with the world 's largest film industry , India and has brought it to Calgary . She is an enthusiastic and energetic professional choreographer and director whose mediums include corporate instruction , music video choreography and live dance performance choreography , both nationally and internationally . Having worked with numerous reputable artists within Bollywood cinema and having the experience of choreographing and working on live international concert performances , she was thrilled to bring her experience to Calgary , when she decided to make it her home 20 years ago . <p> She has had the unforgettable opportunity of working with Oscar and Golden Globe winner A.R . Rahman of Slumdog Millionaire , as well as to open for Michael Jackson , for his concert in Mumbai , India . She and her partner were the only Bollywood choreographers chosen to put forward a team for Her Royal Highness Queen Elizabeth II , at the 2005 Alberta Centennial Celebrations held in Edmonton . <p> It was also an honour for her to be bestowed the Queen 's Golden Jubilee pin in Calgary . In 2015 , she received the South Asian Excellence Award for Cultural Icon . On November 19 , 2022 , she was honoured with the South Asian Inspiration Award for Outstanding Achievement in Arts , Culture and Entertainment . She is deeply honoured to have recently been awarded the <h> Member of Ontario Provincial Parliament <p> City : Mississauga , ON <p> Country of origin : Egypt <p> Sheref Sabawy is the member of Ontario Provincial Parliament for the riding of Mississauga-Erin Mills for two consecutive terms . On March 28 , 2024 , he was appointed by the Premier of Ontario Doug Ford to be the Parliamentary Assistant to Ontario 's Minister of Citizenship and Multiculturism . Prior to that he served for one year as the Parliamentary Assistant to the Minister of Public and Business Service Delivery , responsible for the digital government services . <p> He is the first Canadian of Egyptian-Coptic descent to be elected to the legislature in Canada 's history . He first got elected on June 7 , 2018 , and has since been an integral part of Ontario 's legislative landscape . <p> MPP Sabawy also served on multiple legislative committees including Standing Committee on Heritage , Infrastructure , and Cultural Policy ; Standing Committee on Social Policy ; and Standing Committee on Government Agencies . <p> MPP Sabawy has successfully helped to pass several important pieces of legislation to build Ontario . His advocacy has helped secure : <p> Egyptian Heritage Month to be celebrated in July of every year in Ontario , Canada <p> Elimination of the " Canadian experience " requirements for new immigrant professional workers <p> $45 million in provincial funding for the South Common Community Centre and Library <p> Over 1,880 long-term care beds for Mississauga <p> The redevelopment of the Mississauga Hospital to be the largest emergency department in Canada <p> The development of the 18-kilometre light-rail train " Hazel McCallion Line " <p> Other than his legislative work , Sabawy has been an active and engaged member of the Canadian community for over 18 years ; including the Inter-Faith Committee of Peel , the Peel Region Inclusion &amp; Multi-Culture Task Force , the Mississauga Post-Secondary Education Task Force and the Canadian-Coptic Community Centre . He remains vocally and actively involved in the community , regularly meeting with community members and businesses throughout Mississauga-Erin Mills and across Ontario to learn how to make life better for Ontarians . <p> Professionally , he is a successful computer network and IT technologies professional with over 38 years of experience , having worked for some of Canada 's largest companies and major financial institutions like Bell , HSBC , CIBC and Cisco . Additionally , he has managed a successful consultancy business and continues to share his knowledge as a professor of IT at George Brown College and Centennial College . <p> Shaheen Nanji <h> Executive director , SFU International <p> City : Vancouver Country of origin : Kenya <p> Shaheen Nanji is a prominent figure in Canadian academia and community leadership , renowned for her tireless advocacy for social justice , diversity and education . Born and raised in Kenya , Nanji embarked on a journey marked by resilience , determination and unwavering commitment to making a positive impact in her adopted home of Canada . <p> Arriving in her early twenties , Nanji faced the challenges of adaptation and integration common to many immigrants . Despite lacking traditional credentials and " Canadian experience , " she embraced the opportunities available to her and quickly made her mark . <p> Her entrepreneurial spirit led her to establish herself in the business world , where she co-founded a travel agency within a remarkably short span . However , driven by a desire to effect social change informed by her international experiences , she transitioned to academia . <p> At Simon Fraser University ( SFU ) , Nanji found her true calling . She pursued higher education , earning a master 's in international studies . Her academic journey at SFU heightened her passion for social justice , equity and inclusion , and community engagement . <p> Currently serving as the executive director of SFU International , Nanji plays a pivotal role in shaping and leading the university 's international diplomacy and fostering impact . As an ambassador of Canada and SFU , she works tirelessly to promote educational collaborations and serves as an interlocutor across sectors , cultures and disciplines on the global stage . <p> At the global community level , she convenes substantive conversations between diverse communities , addressing pressing issues such as immigration , the climate crisis , and equity and inclusion . To that end , she serves as an associate for the SFU Centre for Dialogue . <p> In addition , Nanji remains deeply engaged in community leadership . She has served on the boards of various non-profit organizations , including Burnaby Family Life , where she held the position of chair . Additionally , Nanji chairs the board of Proteknon and is board member with Academics Without Borders , further amplifying her impact on both local and global scales . <p> Nanji stands as a shining example of the transformative potential of immigrants in shaping Canadian society . Her journey is an inspiration , embodying the values of resilience , compassion and unwavering dedication to creating a more just and inclusive world . <p> Sevtap Savas <h> Patient advocate and professor <p> City : St. John 's , Newfoundland and Labrador <p> Country of origin : Turkiye ( Turkey ) <p> Named as one of the Most Inspiring Immigrants in Atlantic Canada in 2024 , Sevtap Savas is dedicated to improve the lives of cancer patients and families through community engagement , advocacy and research . <p> Originally from Turkiye , Savas moved to Canada in 2002 and later became a Canadian citizen . Since 2008 , she has been a faculty member at Memorial University of Newfoundland . <p> Savas ' aim is to help reduce cancer 's effects on individuals and communities . She believes that every day is an opportunity to achieve this aim . Together , we can make this a reality . For this purpose , she works with dedicated students , assistants , collaborators and patient partners . <p> Her long-term expertise is about understanding the influence of genetic make-up on survival of cancer patients . <p> Lately , inspired by patient stories and social justice , she started to examine discrimination , as well as social and workplace issues experienced by patients . Her students and patient partners have important roles in this work . <p> Additionally , Savas has been leading the Public Interest Group on Cancer Research , a patient-scientist partnership in Newfoundland and Labrador . This group promotes public knowledge on cancer and helps create research studies . They also advocate for cancer patients and identify ways to connect with the community . They have successfully utilized various outreach tools , including a public conference , media articles , radio interviews , blog posts and podcasts . <p> Also , recently Savas created a pan-Atlantic Canada patient-scientist partnership . This new group will support researchers solving cancer-related problems and elevate patient and family voices in the region and beyond . She is motivated by her interest in social justice and wellbeing of cancer patients . <p> She credits her resilience to overcoming numerous obstacles as an immigrant woman , scientist , and advocate , and as a person living away from family . While cancer is her main focus , Savas also advocates for international students and under-served communities . <p> Savas has received numerous awards and recognitions throughout her life . In 2020 , she was promoted to a full professor . <p> Last but not least , Savas loves animals . She has been volunteering for an animal rescue organization by fostering their cats . <p> Rizwana Nazar <h> Litigation and immigration lawyer <p> City : Brampton , Ontario <p> Country of origin : India <p> Born in Tamilnadu , India , to a father who was an auto-rickshaw driver , Rizwana Nazar faced extreme financial hurdles from a young age . Yet her determination saw her winning a scholarship to compete in the prestigious Willem C. Vis Moot Court Competition , in Austria and Hong Kong , marking her out as a talent to watch . <p> Moving to Canada in 2018 as a permanent resident , Nazar faced the double challenge of being pregnant and lacking Canadian work experience , which made job hunting particularly difficult . However , holding a master 's in law ( LLM ) from India , she did n't let these obstacles deter her . Nazar tackled the Canadian law equivalency and bar exams head on , passing them by 2021 while also caring for her newborn . Just four days after obtaining her barrister and solicitor license , she founded Naz Law Professional Corporation , a Brampton-based law firm demonstrating her remarkable resilience and drive . <p> Nazar , from a modest background , understands the value of every penny and the need for legal justice , saying , " like doctors , we save lives , just differently . " Her firm offers free , fixed-fee and pro-bono services , aiding newcomers and low-income families , shining as a beacon for the underserved . <p> She has also been a pivotal figure in the Tamil community in Canada , founding the Association of Tamilnadu Community in Canada . This association , boasting over 5,000 members , provides workshops , cultural and career events , significantly impacting the Tamil immigrant community in Canada . <p> Besides her legal work , Nazar is an entrepreneur with several businesses , including a bed and breakfast and a startup called Biz Nook , which supports new entrepreneurs . She has also established a network of immigration firms in India . <p> Rania Younes <h> Social impact leader <p> City : Burlington , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Egypt <p> Rania Younes is a systems designer and community strategist with a deep commitment to fostering community , dismantling barriers , and advancing equity and inclusion . An unwavering advocate for social change , Younes held leadership positions in marketing and branding roles within multinational corporations across the Middle East and North Africa . In the last decade , Younes made a strategic pivot to the non-profit sector , driven by her passion for social change and impact . Through her work in co-designing solutions and fostering community-based partnerships , Younes is an inspiring visionary dedicated to shaping brighter futures and equitable communities . <p> As the senior manager of employer networks and national engagement at the Immigrant Employment Council of BC , Younes plays a pivotal role in connecting employers with skilled immigrants , promoting inclusive hiring practices , and tackling systemic employment challenges . Her passion for economic empowerment has a particular focus on immigrant women and youth , evidenced by her involvement with organizations like the Toronto Region Immigrant Employment Council and the Canadian Arab Institute . Driven by a profound belief in the transformative power of societal impact of immigrant prosperity , she co-founded WelcomeHomeTO and the Professional Canadian Arab Network ( PCAN ) , organizations focused on alleviating settlement challenges and cultivating networking and mentoring opportunities , particularly within racialized communities . <p> Younes leverages the arts as a catalyst for social justice and inclusion , with consulting contributions to various productions including In Her Shoes , a dark comedy short film exploring pervasive employment challenges of Arab women in Canada , collaborations with Against the Grain Theater on the BOUND-HANDEL WITH CARE digital album , and a project that that celebrates immigrant women 's stories with artist Madhu Kumar . <p> Born in Egypt and raised in Kuwait , Younes relocated to Canada in the early 2000s after completing her studies at the American University in Cairo . She also holds a master 's degree in strategic foresight and innovation design from OCAD University , which deepened her commitment to social innovation and community development . <p> Rani Younes has held leadership roles , such as president and chair of the board for the Arab Community Center of Toronto , Newcomer 's Kitchen and Newcomer Students ' Association . She has volunteered extensively with initiatives like Scale Without Borders , Yalla Let 's Talk , Canadian Arabic Orchestra , Environmental Defence and the Canadian Muslim Vote , showcasing her commitment to fostering inclusion , equity and social development . <p> Paul Ong <h> Educator and musician <p> City : Winnipeg Country of origin : Chinese born in Philippines <p> Paul Ong is Chinese by heritage , born and raised in the Philippines . He immigrated to Canada in 2010 . Since migrating to Canada , he has been using his gifts to make a positive impact in the community . <p> Ong is an educator and a musician ( tenor ) . By profession , Ong is a vice-principal who empowers youth to excel . He started his teaching career in a northern community , and was an inclusive education resource teacher in an inner-city junior high , before his appointment into school administration . He is currently the vice-principal at Meadows West School , with the Winnipeg School Division , where they are currently piloting a Filipino-bilingual program . <p> As a musician , Ong uses his voice to build community and spark social change . He performs with the Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra , and is the first local Chinese-Filipino accompanied by the WSO for a full concert . His annual " Concerts for a Cause " have raised close to $150,000 for local Manitoba charities since its inception in 2015 . <p> Ong will host his 10th Concert for a Cause this November 2024 , and is truly grateful for the collective community support that has allowed him the privilege and opportunity to use his voice as a platform for community causes . <p> As a singer , Ong has been recognized nationally ( Canada 's Got Talent , Tim Hortons Hometown Hero ) and internationally ( World Championship of Performing Arts ) ; and is one of 10 CBC Manitoba Future 40 awardees , recognizing individuals who make a positive impact in the community , and make this province better for future generations . <p> In 2023 , Ong established Yap-Ong Family Fund through the Winnipeg Foundation to solidify the family 's commitment to sustainable charitable giving . He also made it to Ace Burpee 's Top 100 Most Fascinating Manitobans of 2023 , and his April 2023 Concert for a Cause is among one of 12 top headline stories in the Winnipeg Free Press for 2023 . <p> This 2024 , Ong has been requested to be a board of director for the Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra , and is also a member of Manitoba Opera 's Community Engagement committee . He also made his debut performance for the NHL singing the national anthem for the Winnipeg Jets in February 2024 . <p> Noel Cunningham <h> Chef and author <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Jamaica <p> Noel Cunningham 's culinary journey is filled with incredible learning experiences , from Jamaica to Canada . His path to becoming one of Canada 's celebrated chefs and culinary extraordinaire is as authentic and inspiring as the dishes he prepares daily . <p> Cunningham is a multi-award-winning chef and culinary personality who hails from Kingston , Jamaica . He is the executive chef of Cuisine by Noel , a private chef and catering company , as well as the host of the What 's Cooking with ChefNoel podcast and best-selling author of his debut cookbook , Cuisine by Noel : A Culinary Journey through Recipes and Stories . Cunningham is a culinary expert who appears regularly on Canadian television shows , including CP24 , Your Morning Live , Breakfast Television and Global News . <p> In 2013 , Cunningham brought his international experience and unique culinary flair to some of Manitoba 's hotels while working as their executive chef . After making an impact on the Manitoba culinary scene for six years and being nominated and voted Winnipeg 's best chef , Cunningham relocated to Toronto in 2019 , and since then he has become one of the most sought-after chefs , working with high-profile brands such as Appleton Estate Canada , the Jamaica Tourist Board Canada , Guinness , Sunwing Vacations and the City of Toronto . <p> His culinary prowess has earned him recognition nationally as well as internationally , culminating in multiple accolades and appearances in print and broadcast media across the U.S. , Canada and Jamaica . In 2019 and 2020 , he was voted Best Black Chef in Canada . In 2021 , he also took home the Best Restaurant and Baker , Best Podcaster and Best Caterer awards from the ByBlacks.com Magazine awards . <p> Cunningham is the face of Sherbourne Health 's Food for Good campaign . The initiative improves food-related skills and knowledge , as well as job opportunities and access to healthy food for our community 's most vulnerable . He is also a monthly donor for the Sick Kids Hospital . <p> In 2022 , Cunningham was named one of the 60 most influential and impactful next-generation and senior leaders of Jamaican descent in the Greater Toronto and Hamilton area . As a food writer and culinary podcaster , Cunningham uses his platform to advocate for chefs , restaurants and the culinary industry . <p> Nekpen Obasogie <h> Founder , Nigerian Canadian Multicultural Centre <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Nigeria <p> When Nekpen Obasogie arrived in Canada in 2008 from Nigeria , she took a decisive step to adapt to Canadian life ; she had to repeat her high school education , not minding that she was in her thirties . Today , she has a degree in sociology and a second in law and society , a master 's degree in social work , and , to boot , a certificate in refugee and migration studies . <p> Since 2021 , Obasogie has authored three history books , and she is currently a PhD candidate at OISE/University of Toronto . She has volunteered in various organizations in Toronto , including Rexdale Women 's Centre . As an immigrant woman in Canada and a student at York University , Obasogie understands the many barriers faced by new immigrants and their families in the country . She asserts that education is one of the keys to social and economic integration . To address this issue , she formed an association under the student federation at York University called the Immigrant Women 's Alliance ( IWA ) in 2015 . This organization seeks to empower new immigrant women , especially those facing integration challenges in education and access to social services . Obasogie believes that education benefits women , their families , Canadian society and the rest of the world . <p> Obasogie is also the key host and CEO of NEBO TV in Toronto . NEBO TV is an online television channel that produces history documentaries and reports news worldwide . From 2021 to 2023 , she served as the assistant secretary of the Nigerian Canadian Association ( GTA ) and held other positions . In 2022 , she made history when she initiated the annual Edo Language Day Worldwide ( Edo is her native language in Nigeria ) . The Edo Language Day initiative is her response to the warning by the United Nations over the extinction of Indigenous languages worldwide . She continues to coordinate the program every year worldwide . <p> As part of her community service work in Canada , in 2022 , she founded the Nigerian Canadian Multicultural Centre ( NCMC ) in Toronto . NCMC is a not-for-profit organization that aims to enhance the social , economic , mental health and cultural development of the members of Etobicoke Centre and new immigrants in the GTA . Obasogie manages three organizations at her Etobicoke Centre ( Toronto ) office . In 2022 , she set up a committee ( Benin Artifacts Restitution ) to oversee and campaign for the restitution of Benin Cultural Artifacts that were looted from Benin by the British colonists in 1897 . In 2023 , she was appointed the Diaspora African Konnect ( DAK ) lead researcher ( an international organization in the United Kingdom ) . <p> Namrata Sharma <h> CEO , Lavender Smiles Daycare <p> City : Saskatoon , Saskatchewan Country of origin : India <p> Namrata Sharma immigrated to Saskatoon , Saskatchewan , in 2017 with her mother from their home country India . After experiencing culture shock within her new city , she fell into a deep depression that she battled for an entire year . But she fell in love with Canada and recovered once she emersed herself into the community around her . After feeling accepted and supported through peers , colleagues and professionals , she finally developed a true sense of home in her new country . <p> Not only has she developed a sense of home for herself , but her company has done exactly that for neurodivergent children . She is the CEO and co-founder of Saskatoon 's one and only complex behavioural daycare , Lavender Smiles Daycare . She has changed the face of childcare in her province for many children with complex behavioural disabilities and have benefited their families lives in abundantly positive ways . <p> The impact of her company on the community has changed many families lives across the province of Saskatchewan . Testimonies both online and in person reflect the significance that Sharma and her business has had on families with children who are neurodivergent . A diagnosis often poses a dark and heavy journey ahead , but Sharma intercepts that and opens a door to inclusion and acceptance . <p> She has volunteered at local hospitals as well as at the University of Saskatchewan . Her services and impact have extended far beyond local facilities with her generosity and kind manner being her prominent attributes . Sharma has a bright soul with ambition that is infectious . Her age , 24 , has not stopped her from achieving things that many only dream of . <p> She has been honoured by being a finalist in three categories between two prestigious local business awards , the NSBA Business Builder Awards and the WESK Gala . The categories that her business is eligible for are Young and Promising Entrepreneurs , Small Business and Innovation Award . <p> Nadine Williams <h> Poet , author and arts educator <p> City : Niagara Falls , Ontario Country of origin : Jamaica <p> Nadine Williams is a Jamaican-Canadian who now calls Ontario home . She has published four collections of poetry , two children 's books and over 16 volumes of literature for Black History Month . These creations are a staple in the curricula of several schools in Canada in celebration of Black history . She is a regular presenter at schools across Canada , including universities and was the distinguished guest lecturer to the prestigious African Writers Club at the University of Vienna in May 2019 , and is often called upon to participate in Immigration , Citizenship and Refugees Canada citizenship ceremonies reading poetry , singing the anthem and welcoming new Canadians . She is the recipient of the CIC Volunteer Award 2012 , York Regional Police Deeds Speak Award 2014 , received parliamentary mention for significant contribution to Black History in Canada in 2019 , was named among the 100 Accomplished Black Canadian Women ( 100ABC ) 2022 , received the 2024 Women Who Inspire Change Award from the Jamaican Canadian Association and have received numerous certificates from all levels of government . <p> Williams has exhibited her artwork at Canadian Museum of History , Bank of Canada Museum , Old Town Hall Gallery , Art Gallery of Mississauga , Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21 , Billy Bishop Airport and Toronto 's Union Station . As the resident poet for the Caribbean Consular Corps , she is vested in supporting the next generation of authors , writers and scholars . This distinguished President 's Poet has opened for Michelle Obama , the Right Hon. Micha ? lle Jean , Canada 's former Governor General , Hon. Justin Trudeau , PM of Canada , and Hon. Portia Simpson-Miller , PM of Jamaica . <p> She was the proponent in the recognition and dedication of four recent significant events of the journey of Black Peoples in Canada ; " The Enslavement of African People in Canada , " " The West Indian Domestic Scheme , " " George Dixon " and " Celebrations of Emancipation Day . " These occurrences and person are now catalogued by the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada and Parks Canada as historical Canadian significant events and person . <p> Her current project is to bring awareness to the UN 's International Decade for People of African Descent ( IDPAD ) through her art installation project , " The Fabric of Our Being " and successfully advocated for the domestic extension of the decade to 2028 . <p> Lili ? n Cazacu <h> Notary Public <p> City : Langley , B.C. <p> Country of origin : Republic of Moldova <p> Recognized as the Immigrant Entrepreneur of the Year by Small Business BC in 2017 , Lili ? n Cazacu embodies resilience and determination in overcoming formidable obstacles on his path to pursuing his passion for law . In 2005 , Cazacu and his young family embarked on a courageous journey to Canada , despite of lack of English and any substantial financial means . <p> Having dedicated nearly a decade to his legal education in Moldova , including attaining a bachelor 's in civil law , a master 's in law and PhD studies in criminology , Cazacu encountered a stark reality -- he could n't sustain his family on his modest income as an in-house legal counsel for a local non-profit organization . Undeterred by adversity , he started intensively studying English during the day , while toiling as a laborer in a manufacturing plant by night . Despite sustaining an injury and learning that his legal credentials from Moldova were n't recognized in Canada , his resolve remained unyielding , and he continued improving his English proficiency while obtaining a Certificate in Legal Administrative Studies at Kwantlen Polytechnic University , which allowed him to secure a paralegal position . Subsequently , he applied and was admitted into the MAALS program at SFU , which he helped fund with a low-interest loan through a foreign recognition program with S.U.C.C.E.S.S . <p> In 2014 , Cazacu achieved a significant milestone , graduating with an MA in Applied Legal Studies , passing statutory exams and being sworn in by the Supreme Court of BC as a notary public . Founding LC Notary Corporation , his entrepreneurial venture flourished rapidly , earning him abundant accolades for his business acumen and community contributions . Over the years , Cazacu has been recognized with numerous local awards , beside the BC Immigrant Entrepreneur award , such as the U40 Person of the Year by the Greater Langley Chamber of Commerce in 2016 , the Entrepreneur of the Year in 2018 , the Small Business Person of the Year by Alignable . Also , in 2019 , Cazacu was recognized by the Kwantlen Polytechnic University as the Distinguished Alumni of the Year while the Langley Chamber awarded him with their most prestigious award -- the George Preston Memorial Business Person of the Year . <p> Cazacu 's commitment to philanthropy is as steadfast as his dedication to professional excellence . He keeps paying it forward and giving back to his community by actively serving on various boards and lending his time and expertise to local non-profit organizations . He ardently advocates for legal and financial literacy within his Langley and B.C. community . Through his unwavering determination and altruistic endeavors , Lilian Cazacu continues to inspire and uplift those around him , leaving a perpetual mark on both professional and philanthropic landscapes . <p> Kelly Kaur <h> Author/writer <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Singapore <p> Kelly Kaur grew up in Singapore and lives in Calgary . Her writing centres on issues of immigration , displacement , race , colour and women 's experiences . <p> Kaur 's poem , part of the Lunar Codex Nova , landed on the moon on February 22 , 2024 -- the first historic library on the moon , declared an Artemis Accords Heritage Site , designated as a heritage of humanity , and preserved for posterity . Her novel , Letters to Singapore , will also be going to the moon on the Astrobotic Griffin/NASA VIPER mission in November 2024 . <p> Kaur 's novel , Letters to Singapore , chronicles the hilarious and challenging experiences of a newcomer to Canada . Kaur 's upcoming children 's book , Howdy , I 'm Harnam Singh , is the story of a pioneer Sikh rancher in Alberta . It will be published in fall 2024 . Kaur 's interviews and works have been published in Singapore , Canada , U.S.A. , Malaysia , U.A.E. , United Kingdom , Prague , Peru , Columbia , Berlin , Italy , Greece , New Zealand and Africa . <p> Kaur has a passion for human rights ; her poems were selected by the North Dakota International Human Rights Arts Festival in both 2022 and 2023 . The poems were in a one-year travelling exhibition to museums and arts galleries in six cities . Kaur 's poem won Honorable Mention for the Creators of Justice Literary Award , New York , and her story was nominated for a Pushcart Prize . Some publications include Landed : Transformative Stories of Canadian Immigrant Women and Growing Up Indian , Singapore . Other poems were choreographed to dance by the Voices Dance Project in Ottawa . <p> Kaur is a preliminary reader for IHRAM Publishes , International Human Rights Art Movement , New York ( IHRAM ) . She edited an anthology for IHRAM : From Africa with Love : Voices of a Creative Continent . She is currently editing another IHRAM anthology showcasing Canadian Indigenous writers and artists : Indigenous Voices of Canada : Heart , Hope and Land . She was a judge for IHRAM 's Creators of Justice Literary Award and the African Spoken Word Award . A Calgarian toastmaster , she represented Southern Alberta and Saskatchewan 's District 42 at the Toastmasters International World Champion of Public Speaking . She volunteers as a board member for the Alexandra Writers ' Centre . Kaur teaches at Mount Royal University . <p> Kavita V. Bhagat C.S. has practised law for over 20 years . She was designated as a certified specialist in family law by the Law Society of Ontario ( LSO ) . Bhagat serves as a committee member with the Judicial Appointments Advisory Council ( Ontario ) . She is an accredited family mediator , arbitrator , parenting coordinator and a former panel lawyer for the Office of the Children 's Lawyer . <p> She offers evaluative voice of the child reports and is trained to provide collaborative family law services . She is an ADR instructor at York University . Bhagat is a former board member of the Family Dispute Resolution Institute of Ontario and past-president of the Peel Chapter of the Ontario Association of Family Mediators . <p> She currently serves as the treasurer for Peel Mediation Arbitration . She is a former board member of the Caledon Parent and Child Centre , Ontario Early Years and served as the fund development coordinator and board member of Volunteer MBC , a not-for-profit that oversees 220 plus not-for-profits in the Region of Peel . <p> She served as director , Peel Law Association and currently serves as an executive on the Ontario Bar Association . <p> Jay Chowdhury <h> Media champion in diversity , equality , multiculturalism and inclusion <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : India <p> Jay Chowdhury is a seasoned professional with a track record of success across multiple industries and regions . He has held key roles such as station manager at CKYR Multicultural Broadcasting Corporation RED FM 106.7 , where he led a team in promoting multiculturalism through innovative radio programming in 19 ethnic Languages reflecting ethnic diversity . <p> In his role as Canadian Foodgrains Bank Alberta Representative Advocacy Coordinator on Global Food Security , Chowdhury advocated for crucial issues like global food security , playing a vital role in addressing hunger on a global scale . <p> His work with uTurn Project ( Inc ) Canada as a project officer for South Asia and Far East Asia led to the successful implementation of projects that brought about positive change in these regions . <p> As director of programs for Habitat for Humanity in Asia and the Pacific Region , Chowdhury spearheaded efforts to provide sustainable housing solutions through engaging community programs . <p> Additionally , his role as a United Nations Development Program ( UNDP ) program officer focused on combating human trafficking for sexual purposes and supporting children in difficult circumstances underscored his dedication to social impact . <p> Further , as board co-chair for the Calgary Police Service , Diversity Unit 's South Asian Portfolio , Chowdhury led initiatives to strengthen police-community relations within the South Asian community , showcasing his commitment to promoting inclusivity and diversity . <p> Chowdhury 's achievements reflect not only his professional expertise but also his unwavering dedication to making a positive difference in the world . <p> Born and raised in Calcutta , Chowdhury has lived in Alberta for two decades , where he still lives with his wife , Jyoti , and three boys . <p> Jamshed ( Jimmy ) Hassan <h> Small business owner and city councillor <p> City : Kingston , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Pakistan <p> Jamshed " Jimmy " Hassan was born in Pakistan , raised as a foster child by his aunt and uncle . Living in poverty , he was inspired to engage with local politics to create equitable and sustainable changes at just 17 years old . However , due to lack of opportunity , he left to pursue the full extent of his dream across the world . <p> Hassan has lived and worked in Japan and America before finally moving to Canada as a landed immigrant in 1998 for culinary skills work . In 2003 , he moved to Kingston and became a small business owner when he bought a Pizza Pizza franchise location . He has lived there , managing the restaurant , for the past 23 years . <p> Hassan has always been grateful for everything he has , and he believes that giving back your blessings is an important responsibility as a Canadian . He has spent the past eight years doing just that through a local non-profit he founded called the Canadian Colours Kingston Foundation . <p> Through this organization , he has many projects including the Diversity Dinner for seven years to celebrate the unique cultures and histories that make up Canada ; with over 450 participants last year , the Santa Slices Initiative for three years donating over 1,800 slices to local charities last holiday season , and Project Red Rose for six years to provide the vulnerable with a fresh meal and companionship on Valentine 's Day . <p> For his efforts , Hassan has won several awards , including the Community Foundation of Kingston &amp; Area 's Community Builder Award , the city 's First Capital Distinguished Citizens Award and an honorary diploma from St. Lawrence College . <p> Hassan has also been the producer and host of his own show on local television , " Community Voices " on YourTV Cogeco , opening discussions about local socio-political matters . <p> Now , decades later , Hassan 's journey has circled all the way back to that desire to help create the best and most equitable city that he sparked in his youth , as he has been the first South Asian immigrant elected to the Kingston City Council as of 2022 . <p> J. Torres <h> Writer <p> City : Whitby <p> Country of origin : Philippines <p> Torres is an award-winning writer of comics and graphic novels for younger readers . He was four years old when his family immigrated to Canada from the Philippines . At an early age , he learned to read from newspaper comic strips like Peanuts and Family Circus . By the third grade , he was writing and drawing his own comic strip for the school paper . In the sixth grade , he directed a play he adapted from an Archie comic . By the time he graduated high school , he knew he wanted to be a writer and aspired to work for the publishers of his favourite superhero comics . That dream came true in the early 2000s when he wrote some X-Men stories for Marvel and was soon recruited to helm the original Teen Titans Go series for DC Comics . He 's been writing comics professionally ever since . <p> Torres has worked for all the major North American comic book publishers as well as some of Canada 's biggest children 's book publishers . He 's written stories for popular characters and titles such as the Archies , Avatar : The Last Airbender , Batman , Black Panther , Degrassi : Extra Credit , Rick and Morty Presents , The Simpsons , Wall-E , Wonder Woman , Yo Gabba Gabba and more . <p> His graphic novels include Brobots ( Kids Read Comics and Parents Choice award winner ) , How to Spot a Sasquatch ( Junior Library Guild selection ) , Planet Hockey ( Forest of Reading Honour Book ) , Lola : A Ghost Story ( recipient of an Aesop Accolade from the American Folklore Society ) and Stealing Home ( Forest of Reading Honour Book and Hackmatack Children 's Choice Book Award ) . He has also written for television and animation , most notably Degrassi Minis and DC 's Adventure Comics on YouTube . Born in Manila , raised in Montreal and educated at McGill , Torres is a recipient of the " Outstanding Writer " Joe Shuster Award and listed on the Government of Canada 's " Noteworthy Canadians of Asian Heritage . " He also volunteers as an ESL instructor and participates in conversation circles for new Canadians . The writer currently resides with his wife and two sons in Whitby , Ontario . <p> Hong Phuc ( HP ) Nguyen <h> Founder , Kibbi <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Vietnam <p> Hong Phuc ( HP ) Nguyen is a Vietnamese newcomer who , in just two years , transformed her challenges into opportunities . Faced with the labyrinth of barriers immigrants encounter in the job market despite coming here with an MBA and +12 years ' work experience , Nguyen founded the Kibbi app . Her mission is to revolutionize the settlement experience for immigrants and refugees , enabling efficient workforce entry and integration . <p> Raised in modest circumstances , she learned about hard work and grit , bringing the app to where it is today . Her formative years were spent in a woman-led family business , where she helped sell fish sauce in plastic bags in a small coastal town in Vietnam starting from the age of five . This upbringing instilled in her an entrepreneurial spirit for addressing market gaps and solving real-world problems . <p> Today , the Kibbi app stands out as a platform available in 17 languages , specifically spoken by refugees , employing a map-based interface so jobseekers can explore local employment opportunities . It leverages AI to support resum ? building and adaption for every job application . <p> In her first year of business , Nguyen secured an $895K investment and thrives under Platform Calgary 's incubation . Her journey culminated in being awarded the Immigrant of Distinction Award for Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation in 2023 . To date , the app has aided over 21,000 jobseekers across Canada and facilitated 67,000 job applications to local businesses . Her story is one of resilience , innovation , and a commitment to using technologies and innovation for social change . <p> Haidong Liang , PhD <h> Gerontologist <p> City : Edmonton <p> Country of origin : China <p> Haidong Liang , PhD , a renowned gerontologist , embodies the spirit of the Canadian dream . Arriving in Canada in 2002 as an international student from Mainland China with limited English proficiency , he has since made significant academic and professional strides . He earned three degrees from top Canadian universities and taught English writing at two universities . <p> Currently , Liang is the executive director of Westend Seniors Activity Centre ( WSAC ) and WESeniors Strathcona County , one of the few racialized , non-Canadian-born leaders of a mainstream senior-serving organization in Alberta . His transformative leadership has tripled the centre 's programs and membership and secured over $5 million in funding . <p> He created the " WESeniors " platform , an inclusive movement for seniors ' wellbeing . This platform connects seniors and their social networks both in person and digitally through a variety of programs , services and digital solutions . The strength of the platform lies in its openness to partnerships , leveraging the strengths of other organizations , and its commitment to serving seniors effectively and efficiently . <p> His vision also led to the founding of the Alberta Seniors Alliance , providing support to other organizations serving over 5,000 equity-deserving populations . He introduced cutting-edge technologies to WSAC , making it one of the few senior centres with its own app tailored for seniors . <p> Liang works closely with universities across Canada ( e.g. , University of Alberta , Western University ) , connecting seniors to the latest research ( e.g. , on dementia ) . He has also been instrumental in creating a multilingual senior-focused fraud prevention website ( https : //seniorfraudalert.ca/ ) in Canada , which has been featured in BC , Alberta and Ontario . <p> His volunteer roles span various notable **30;409;TOOLONG committees ( e.g. , the Minister 's Advisory Committee for Seniors and the Edmonton Age Friendly Alliance Stewardship Group ) . In these roles , he leverages his expertise to influence policies and trends that benefit seniors . <p> Liang 's achievements have been recognized with several awards , including the 2019 Edmonton Top 40 Under 40 , 2019 and 2021 Minister 's Seniors Service Awards , and 2022 Queen Elizabeth II 's Platinum Jubilee Medal . His story is a testament to the positive impact immigrants can have on their communities since arriving in Canada . <p> Gordana Radan <h> CEO , Calgary Catholic Immigration Society <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Former Yugoslavia <p> Gordana Radan is the chief executive officer of Calgary Catholic Immigration Society ( CCIS ) , a leading organization in the Prairies for immigrant and refugee services . Under her visionary leadership , CCIS boasts a dynamic team of over 450 employees and 2,000 volunteers , delivering pioneering programs and services that support the settlement and integration of newcomers in Calgary and Southern Alberta . <p> Prior to becoming CEO in 2023 , Radan was the director of the Business , Employment and Training Services ( BETS ) at CCIS for 16 years , leading the design and implementation of over 40 innovative employment and training initiatives , significantly advancing the labour market integration of newcomers to Alberta . She enhanced CCIS 's sectoral leadership and visibility by forging hundreds of multisectoral employer partnerships that secured vital employment opportunities for thousands of refugees , youth and skilled immigrants . Her efforts at BETS significantly transformed the unit into a multidisciplinary team of 110 professionals and quadrupled the unit 's funding , establishing CCIS as a preeminent agency in Alberta for newcomer employability and training services . <p> Radan 's path to leadership within the immigrant and refugee services sector was shaped by her own experiences as a refugee from the former Yugoslavia in 1995 . Her first home in Canada was CCIS 's refugee reception house , the Margaret Chisholm Resettlement Centre ( MCRC ) in Calgary , infusing her work with profound empathy and a deep understanding of the newcomer experience . <p> Her commitment to improving the outcomes of Canada 's newcomers extends to high-level involvements in various boards and committees , including serving as the vice-chair of the Alberta Association of Immigrant Serving Agencies ( AAISA ) . <p> Radan 's journey from refugee to influential leader is an inspiration for all newcomers to Canada . Her story underscores the incredible ability of newcomers , including the most vulnerable , to rise above challenges and turn their experiences into catalysts for personal growth and lasting community impact . <p> Florentine Strzelczyk <h> Provost and vice-president ( academic ) at Western University <p> City : London , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Germany <p> Florentine Strzelczyk is an internationally recognized scholar and university leader . Currently the provost and vice-president ( academic ) at Western University , Strzelczyk 's impact on Canadian higher education is underscored by her dedication to enabling student success , strengthening inclusivity and deepening global connection . <p> Born in Germany , Strzelczyk came to Canada as an international PhD student at the University of British Columbia . She has received many prestigious national and international research awards that have solidified her reputation as an innovative researcher whose work contributes to our collective understanding of fascism , racism and discrimination in culture and society . <p> Strzelczyk began teaching at the University of Calgary in 1997 , becoming deputy provost in 2018 . At Calgary , she introduced a unique program in Muslim cultures to combat prejudice , and in 2020 received the Provost Award for her work on campus community wellbeing during the pandemic . Strzelczyk was named provost at Memorial University in Newfoundland in 2021 , where she facilitated the creation of a campus in Labrador , expanding university education opportunities for Indigenous students in the vast province . As provost now at Western , Strzelczyk improved access to university for students with diverse backgrounds , created financial supports for new-to-Canada students entering Western , and is fostering new international partnerships to tackle our world 's most urgent global problems through collaboration . <p> For more than 20 years , Strzelczyk has remained committed to inspiring university leaders to be bold and innovative , serving as a facilitator , instructor and mentor in national leadership programs , including those supporting women and equity-deserving groups . <p> Strzelczyk 's commitment to community engagement and volunteerism has been a cornerstone of her career . Currently a member of provincial and national committees that are committed to driving excellence in higher education , she also serves on local boards that enhance cultural offerings , facilitate opportunities for newcomers , and foster an ecosystem where education , business and culture can thrive . <p> Strzelczyk lives outside London , Ontario , with her husband , her precocious dog Toby and a pet rabbit named John Watson . She loves the rich beauty of the Canadian outdoors , and can be found kayaking , backcountry hiking , cycling and swimming , preferably when her children come to visit . <p> Farahnaz Rezaei <h> Policy , research and evaluation analyst , Office of Immigration <p> City : Stratford , P.E.I. <p> Country of origin : Iran <p> Farahnaz Rezaei is an exemplary individual who has made significant contributions to promoting engagement , inclusivity and cultural understanding in Prince Edward Island . She has worked tirelessly to facilitate newcomer settlement and integration and create more welcoming and inclusive environments for all . <p> Originally from Iran , Rezaei grew up in Kuwait before immigrating to Canada and settling in P.E.I. in 2012 . As a policy , research and evaluation analyst at the Office of Immigration in P.E.I. , she continues to facilitate newcomers ' engagement and integration in the province . Her professional records demonstrate proven skills and her strong communication and linguistic abilities are assets to the community . <p> Her passion for initiatives that support engagement , inclusivity and cultural diversity has led to her receiving several awards , including the Top 25 Immigrants in the Maritimes by My East Coast Experience in 2018 , the Faces of Fusion Award in 2022 for community organizing , the Craig Mackie 's Award for dedication to newcomers and community spirit , and the Neil and Gail MacDonald Volunteer of the Year 2023 from the Town of Stratford for promoting cultural understanding and inclusion . <p> Rezaei is deeply committed to making a difference in the lives of others and her professional training at UNHCR and experience in cross-cultural conflict resolution in the Middle East have informed her work . <p> In 2021 , Rezaei established the World Religion Day Interfaith Committee to plan the annual celebration of World Religion Day , with members from diverse faith communities and people from all walks of life in P.E.I .. The leadership demonstrated through her interfaith initiative resulted in her being honoured with the P.E.I. Human Rights Award 2023 for her dedication toward interfaith dialogue . <p> Her diverse skills , dedication and passionate advocacy for engagement , inclusivity and cultural understanding , as her purposeful and tangible actions have yielded positive outcomes in achieving inclusive , bias-free environments , to creating more welcoming and inclusive communities for all . <p> She is the middle daughter of five siblings and a mother of two amazing young men . She has been calling Canada and P.E.I. her home for 12 years . She holds degrees and certificates in business administration , computer science , conflict resolution and immigration enforcement services . <p> Efe Fruci <h> Founder , Odihi Foundation <p> City : New Westminster , B.C. <p> Country of origin : Nigeria <p> Efe Fruci , a distinguished TEDx Speaker and serial entrepreneur , emerges as a seasoned professional career and confidence coach , boasting a wealth of over 10 years ' experience . Her dedicated mission revolves around guiding individuals , particularly women , in constructing unshakable confidence and acquiring the essential steps to lead successful , purposeful lives . <p> Renowned as the author of Faith Over Fear , Fruci 's literary work transcends conventional self-help , employing positive psychology to inspire others to recognize and embrace their innate greatness . Through her empowering words , individuals are emboldened to dream audaciously , navigating life 's challenges with a profound sense of confidence . <p> In addition to her literary pursuits , Fruci is a formidable community builder , educator and advocate for mental health . As the founder and executive director of the Odihi Foundation , The Bigger Ideas Conference ? and The Agape Initiative , she is committed to fostering resilience and empowerment within diverse communities . <p> Diana Carolina Morales Valenzuela <h> Engineer , entrepreneur and volunteer <p> City : Winnipeg <p> Country of origin : Colombia <p> Diana Carolina Morales Valenzuela is an industrial engineer and specialist in occupational health management , with a master 's in human resources management , doctorate in administration and currently pursuing a diploma in occupational health and environmental management in Canada . She arrived in Canada and Winnipeg about five years ago with her husband , daughter , pet beagle and mother . <p> Dianita , as everyone calls her , loves to do social work , since her arrival she joined the Association of Colombians in Manitoba and helped lead more than 40 activities for the Colombian community , including celebrations with families , Mother 's Day , independence day of the country , conducting meetings of newcomers , and more . In addition , she did other activities with other foundations such as the Colombian Day in the middle of the pandemic organizing videos and online activities to encourage their community . <p> But then she had the idea , together with other friends , to open and organize the Federation of Latino Associations in Manitoba , where she serves as president . Through the 18 Latino organizations it represents , she helps organize different activities for the Latino community in the province that is growing every day . <p> She has an action plan for each year and helps her community with activities for families , activities to find jobs , to find housing , to answer questions from mothers or fathers about the school system , and activities so that newcomers know how to settle well in the province and where to go . It has a support group and through funded activities with other organizations and foundations has supported activities such as the first Latin American Women 's Congress in Manitoba held on March 9 , 2024 . <p> In August 2024 , the Latin Folklorama will be held at the RBC Convention Centre in Winnipeg , where the federation will support one of the foundations to showcase the rich crafts , gastronomy and art of our region . She does all this work as a volunteer , dedicating part of her time to organizing , supporting and promoting the Latino community in Manitoba . <p> Delasi Essien <h> Global nurse consultant , nurse leader and educator <p> City : Regina , Saskatchewan <p> Country of origin : Ghana <p> Delasi ( Del ) Essien has dedicated a great portion of her life in Canada to nurturing future nurses in Saskatchewan and Manitoba . Essien is passionate about making learning environments safe and welcoming for learners particularly in Black , Indigenous and people of colour ( BIPOC ) communities . As an exemplary mentor and nurse educator , Essien has led many innovative academic strategies to facilitate success in diverse student populations . <p> Essien is a true champion of education and leadership and has dedicated herself to inspiring nursing students and nurses to achieve personal , academic and professional growth . Her scope and reach in coaching and mentoring is not limited to only Saskatchewan ; as many nurses across the country can attest to her passion for excellence in nursing education and her ability to cultivate and lead highly effective cross-cultural teams . <p> As a global nurse consultant , Essien is an advocate for fair and equitable practices in nursing education and has brought an equity , diversity and inclusion lens particularly to assessment processes of internationally educated nurses ( IENs ) seeking to transition to the Canadian workforce . Her dedication to IENs was recognized in 2023 with a nomination for the YWCA Regina 's Nutrien Women of Distinction Award where she was selected as a finalist in the Community Champion category . <p> Essien takes every opportunity to give back meaningfully and philanthropically to her community . Two projects she actively leads in her community are the administration of a food pantry and an initiative to supply backpacks with basic essentials to the homeless in her city . She also serves on several boards and committees in the city of Regina and does so with a " joie de vivre " that is uniquely her . <p> Born to Ghanaian parents , Essien is one of three siblings and has called Canada home for almost 18 years . As a lifelong learner , Essien is enrolled in a doctoral program at the University of Regina where her research focuses on the discourses of indigenization , decolonization and reconciliation in the nursing academy . She holds a bachelor of nursing degree from the University of Manitoba and a master of nursing degree in educational leadership from the University of Saskatchewan . Essien is currently the director of innovation and inclusion at the Saskatchewan Apprenticeship and Trade Certification Commission . <p> Davi Rodrigues <h> Artistic director , Lamondance <p> City : North Vancouver Country of origin : Brazil <p> Lamondance artistic director Davi Rodrigues arrived in Canada in 2008 with little English , following a decorated career as an acclaimed choreographer in his native Brazil . He choreographed eight original full-length dance shows for Cia Criatividan ? a , where he worked as both director and dancer for 15 years . <p> Rodrigues moved to Vancouver to work as a dancer and guest choreographer for Lamondance Company and has since risen to the position of artistic director and resident choreographer . In 2019 , Rodrigues was instrumental in getting Lamondance incorporated as Lamondance Arts Society , a charitable organization registered under the laws of the Province of British Columbia . <p> His unmistakable passion and drive have helped establish Lamondance Company as one of Vancouver 's premiere training programs for emerging dancers . His most recent works for Lamondance are Ubuntu -- I am because we are , Garden of Lights , Kau ? , WE , Marbled , IELE ( a collaboration with the Emmy-nominated music composer Hall Beckett ) , How It Ends and , lastly , VIVA , which premiered in June 2019 , in celebration of the company 's 10th anniversary . <p> His works as a choreographer have also been performed by many prominent dance schools in Vancouver since his arrival in Canada , including Arts Umbrella , Pacific DanceArts , Kirkwood Academy of Performance and Arts and RNB Dance &amp; Theatre . His choreography has received several awards from prestigious festivals in Vancouver , as well as in the United States . <p> Furthering his commitment to community impact , Rodrigues created the " Lamondance and Friends " show , which unites the dance community in celebrating dance as an art form in an inclusive space . Now in its 12th year , the annual show has had a profound impact thanks to Rodrigues ' countless volunteer hours . <p> Rodrigues has found success with his unique style , his infallible optimism and his generous heart . As a passionate mentor , he enthusiastically contributes to dance communities by supporting , educating and challenging artists to take risks . He continues to pursue artistic excellence , creation , production and performance , with an ongoing commitment to share his breadth of experience with performers , choreographers and arts educators in the community at large . <p> Daniel McNeil , PhD <h> Professor and writer <p> City : Ontario <p> Country of origin : England <p> Daniel McNeil is an award-winning author , professor and mentor who has inspired local , national and international audiences to develop historically informed and forward-looking approaches to the movement of people and ideas . <p> After growing up in a working-class community in the north of England , McNeil studied history at Oxford University , directed the Oxford Access Scheme , and encouraged people from racialized and non-traditional backgrounds to apply to university in general and Oxford University in particular . After being awarded an Oxford-Canada Scholarship from the Canadian Rhodes Scholars Foundation , he obtained an MA and a PhD in history and ethnic and immigration studies at the University of Toronto . <p> Professor McNeil is the author of numerous articles and books that have transformed multiple academic fields and stimulated collaborations with art galleries and museums worldwide . In recognition of his history of research achievement , capacity to present his research across disciplinary and institutional boundaries , and continued excellence in the fields of Migration and Diaspora Studies , McNeil has had the honour of holding several prestigious professorships , fellowships and chairs , including the Ida B. Wells-Barnett Visiting Professor of African and Black Diaspora Studies at DePaul University in Chicago ; the inaugural Visiting Public Humanities Faculty Fellowship at the University of Toronto ; and the Queen 's National Scholar Chair in Black Studies at Queen 's University . His ability to galvanize students and colleagues to study and engage the connections between the arts , social justice and decolonial thought has also been recognized with multiple teaching and mentorship awards . <p> McNeil 's cultural criticism , public lectures , feature articles , podcasts and contributions to documentary films expertly bring cutting-edge academic research into the public sphere for informed debate , discussion and examination . He is a popular and much-requested speaker and consultant for agencies and institutions in the public and private sectors seeking to anticipate and reflect critical issues in multiculturalism , anti-racism and related fields . As the co-host and co-producer of the Black Studies Podcast , he was recently nominated for a Canadian Podcast Award for his creative and collaborative approach to knowledge-making , building and sharing . <p> Dacious Richardson <h> Youth/community leader and safe school liaison <p> City : Surrey , B.C. <p> Country of origin : Liberia <p> Dacious Richardson is a community leader of various organizations and initiatives that fight against systemic racism . He serves as a committee member of the United Nation Alliance of Civilization ( UNAOC ) and United Nation of Counterterrorism for the Youth , Sport and Preventing Violent Extremism . He served for three years as a committee member for the Canadian Council for Refugee Youth Network . Richardson advocates for Blacks , refugees , immigrants , newcomer and at-risk youths to address racial discrimination , cultural barriers and gang violence . <p> Richardson is the founder of Rise Above Reality Expectation , an initiative to support and provide youth with mentorships , leaderships , building connections to their culture , through empowerment , diversity , improving social and economic outcomes and prevention of violence . He runs an after-school soccer program at Frank Hurt Secondary School and organizes a free soccer tournament every winter and summer time that have hosted over 1,000 youth participants in the community of Surrey-Guildford and the Lower Mainland area since 2016 to break financial barriers to youth and kids who are unable to afford to play organized sports . <p> He is the youth coordinator of the Liberia-Canadian Association of Greater Vancouver and support staff of the Black Student Union at Frank Hurt Secondary . <p> Richardson served as a youth outreach mentor for the Yo Bro Yo Girl Youth Initiative which provides mentorships and self-defence for at-risk youth throughout Metro Vancouver . A former member and mentor for the Surrey Newcomer Youth Council , a track and field coach for the AirBlastOff Athletics in Surrey . Richardson is also a coach for Coast Wrestling Academy . He is a soccer player and coach of the Liberian soccer team that is an affiliate member of the African Canadian Soccer and Cultural Association . Richardson is a team member and referee of BC Wrestling Association and Canada Wrestling , and he has wrestled at an elite level . <p> Recognized as an " Emerging Leader " for the BC Multiculturalism and Anti-Racism Award by the BC Ministry of the Attorney General on March 21 , 2024 , for his work in building intercultural trust , tackling racism and reducing barriers for marginalized communities . Richardson was also named a " Rising Star " by the DIVERSEcity Black Brilliance Awards in February 2024 , recognizing him as a young leader , innovator and changemaker in the Black community . In 2023 , Richardson received the AMSSA Service Recognition Volunteer Award for his commitment and dedication to volunteering his time and serving marginalized communities . His time with the Canadian Council for Refugee Youth Network was remarkable and he was given the " Sunshine Award " for shining light on refugee and immigrant communities across Canada through his dedicated to the organization <p> Currently , he works for the Surrey School District as a liaison where he provides mentorship and safety for high school students . <p> Azita Afsharnejat <h> Counsellor , director and supervisor <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Iran <p> Azita Afsharnejat is dedicated to empowering immigrant families and advocating for the rights of vulnerable women and children . She is also passionate about organizing social inclusion activities that help build a sense of community among immigrant families and provide them with a space to connect and support one another . <p> With over 16 years of experience in Canada as a family supervisor , manager , team leader , counsellor and coordinator , Afsharnejat has demonstrated exceptional skills in providing effective case management for high-risk youth and adults . Her professional journey includes diverse roles aimed at enhancing the wellbeing of the immigrant community 's special immigrant women . As a volunteer , Afsharnejat played a pivotal role in the establishment of the Calgary Cross-Generational Organization ( CCGO ) . Now , as the programs director at CCGO , she spearheads initiatives fostering intergenerational collaboration and develops programs for the enduring benefit of all involved . <p> Additionally , Afsharnejat served as the designated manager of the wellbeing and resiliency department at CIWA . Her dedication to supporting immigrant women is further evident through her tenure as the One-on-One Counseling for Immigrant Women Program Coordinator at CIWA . <p> Her commitment to community welfare has garnered recognition , including the MCKILLOP Awards for exemplary frontline services work , the You'r Rock ! Award presented by the Calgary Youth Justice Society for Innovation , the Bill Hearn Freedom Award from the Alberta Seven Step Society for Supporting offenders and ex-offenders to achieve and maintain their freedom , realize their potential , and grow within the community , while providing proactive education , and the Bhayana Family Foundation Award for Partnership , Connection and Collaboration . <p> Academically , Afsharnejat holds an MSc degree in clinical psychology , complemented by various certifications in therapy modalities such as Dialectical behavior therapy , cognitive behavior therapy and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy . She actively participates in national and international conferences and training programs focused on addressing social and psychological issues affecting immigrant communities . <p> In her multifaceted career , Afsharnejat continues to make significant contributions to the wellbeing of immigrant families , leveraging her expertise , compassion and dedication to create positive impacts within the community . <p> Ava Onwudegwu <h> Health care leader <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Jamaica <p> Ava Onwudegwu is an accomplished health care leader dedicated to catalyzing positive change . Raised in the vibrant landscapes of Trelawny , Jamaica , Onwudegwu cultivated a profound sense of community and a profound respect for the inherent value of every individual 's wellbeing . Her formative years on the island imbued her with a spirit of resilience , compassion and unwavering faith , qualities that continue to shape her professional journey today . <p> As a devout Christian , her belief in the divine ordination of each person 's unique purpose grounds her approach to life and leadership . As a health care leader armed with a master of nursing degree , she is devoted to enhancing health care systems , cultivating inclusive environments and empowering healthcare professionals to deliver exemplary care . <p> Having occupied pivotal leadership positions in esteemed health care institutions such as Lakeridge Health and Unity Health Toronto , Onwudegwu has made significant strides as a trailblazing Black leader . From becoming the first Black patient care manager to the first Black interim director of critical care , respiratory services &amp; trauma at Lakeridge Health in under two years , her rapid ascent is a testament to her leadership prowess . Additionally , as an adjunct lecturer at the University of Toronto Lawrence S. Bloomberg School of Nursing , Onwudegwu contributes to shaping the next generation of health care professionals and has co-authored an online resource focusing on anti-racism in nursing to drive curriculum change at Toronto Metropolitan University ( TMU ) . <p> Beyond her professional endeavours , Onwudegwu is deeply engaged in community and faith-based initiatives . As the co-founder , vice president , and director of academic relations for the Canadian Black Nurses Alliance ( CBNA ) , she advocates tirelessly for equity , diversity and inclusion within the nursing profession , believing fervently in the responsibility to pave the way for future generations to exceed the present 's limitations and dismantle systemic barriers . <p> Asiya Iskander <h> Professional ballroom dancer and Inspire Dance Studio founder <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Kazakhstan <p> Originally from Kazakhstan , Asiya Iskander , a 15-year-old inspiring ballroom dancer , is making her mark in Canada . Upon immigrating to Canada , limited English proficiency posed a significant challenge for Iskander , but her love for dance served as a beacon of hope during this period . Inspired by the universal language of dance , Iskander now serves as a founder , director , and teacher at her dance studio , where she provides free dance classes to immigrant children to assist them in adapting to the new country . <p> Her goal extends beyond teaching dance ; she envisions the universal language of dance as a form of art therapy , a medium for familial bonding and a tool for cultural adaptation . She organizes free recitals that welcome over 100 people , where her students can present their newly learned skills . Her classes are also inclusive toward students on the autism spectrucm and ADHD . <p> In addition to teaching dance , Iskander actively volunteers to assist Ukrainian refugees in adjusting to the Canadian education system , drawing from her own experiences as an immigrant . By sharing her personal journey and offering guidance , she provides invaluable support to newcomers , helping them navigate the challenges of adaptation . <p> Iskander boasts an impressive array of academic achievements , including multiple first place wins at national-level ballroom dance competitions , recognition of her project provincially with the JR Hall Award , Top 5 Young Citizens in North America , publication of her article in the Canadian National Science Fair Journal and her spot at a Canadian medical internship program . Her achievements also include earning a $15,000 sponsorship for her dance studio , and being honoured with the Daughters Day Award from the Calgary Immigrant Women 's Association for outstanding community service . She also seized multiple opportunities to feature on CTV News as a distinguished speaker , while CBC-Kids highlighted her dance studio in their article . <p> As a full IB student , Iskander maintains an outstanding academic record , graduating from grade 10 first semester with honours and demonstrating a commitment to excellence in all endeavours . Her remarkable achievements , coupled with her unwavering dedication to community service and artistic expression , position her as a beacon of inspiration for immigrants and aspiring changemakers alike . <p> Aneela Azeem <h> Executive director , Maskan Family Association <p> City : Calgary Country of origin : Pakistan <p> In Calgary , a beacon of hope shines bright in the form of Aneela Azeem , the founder and executive director of the Maskan Family Association . Formerly known as the Canadian Pakistani Support Group Association , this organization stands as a testament to Azeem 's unwavering dedication to serving the community , particularly women and youth . Aneela Azeem is a Canadian citizen , originally from Pakistan , immigrated to Canada in 2000 . Having worked as a realtor for 18 years , Azeem spent a significant portion of her career in Montreal before relocating to Calgary in 2013 . <p> Azeem 's commitment to serving the community has garnered recognition from various quarters , including the City of Calgary , which awarded her the esteemed Community Advocate Award in 2020 . She has also been honoured with the Immigrant of Distinction Award in 2022 , the Queen 's Platinum Jubilee Medal , the Alberta Newcomer Recognition Award in 2022 and the Women of Distinction Award in 2022 . <p> Moreover , Azeem is deeply committed to engaging youth in community service initiatives , providing them with opportunities for leadership and fostering a culture of giving back to the community . Azeem has initiated a youth group called Youth Lifting Youth , which is formally registered at the University of Calgary , boasting a membership of 350 young individuals . This group focuses on raising awareness about mental health and aims to dismantle the intergenerational trauma associated with domestic violence . <p> Azeem finds her greatest fulfillment in the positive impact Maskan has on the lives of women escaping violence . She strives to be a role model for others , exemplifying resilience , motivation , and inspiration , particularly within women-led organizations . Her passion and empathy toward those in need serve as a guiding light , inspiring individuals of all ages . <p> Andrea Gomez <h> CEO , Omy Laboratories <p> City : Quebec City <p> Country of origin : Colombia <p> Andrea Gomez is a dynamic entrepreneur and the distinguished CEO of Omy Laboratories , a Quebec-based online sales company that is revolutionizing the custom dermocosmetics sector through innovative use of artificial intelligence . Founded five years ago , Omy has quickly emerged as a major player in the industry , leaving its mark through hypergrowth and numerous innovations . <p> At the helm of Omy , Gomez has spearheaded a true transformation in the beauty world by providing over 70,000 consumers across Canada and the United States with personalized products tailored to their unique needs . Her laboratory in Quebec , comprised of 39 employees ranging from chemists to doctor of pharmacy professionals , is at the forefront of technology and is transitioning toward complete automation of the manufacturing line . This innovative approach has resonated with consumers , establishing Omy as a benchmark for innovation and product efficacy in facial care . <p> In addition to being a visionary entrepreneur , Gomez is a model of success and inspiration as an immigrant . Her journey is marked by resilience and perseverance , qualities that have enabled her to overcome numerous obstacles to achieve her goals . <p> Beyond her entrepreneurial success , Gomez is also a passionate advocate for inclusion and diversity . She has been actively involved in philanthropic initiatives since a young age , eager to make a positive difference in society . <p> In recognition of her remarkable achievements , Gomez has been honoured in multiple ways . She was crowned " Start-Up of the Year " by Women of Influence+ at the RBC Canadian Women Entrepreneur Awards in 2022 , and her innovative work was also recognized at the Mercuriades , where she won the distinction in the " Innovative Manufacturer " category in 2023 . Furthermore , she is a finalist for the prestigious Women 's Leadership Award at the 2023 Fid ? ides Gala . <p> Passionate about subjects such as entrepreneurship , innovation , and local wealth creation , Gomez is a proud ambassador of her adopted country , Quebec . Her ambition is to propel Quebec innovations onto the international stage and showcase the creativity and expertise of her region to the world . <p> With her bold vision and commitment to excellence , Gomez is firmly determined to continue redefining the dermocosmetics industry while leaving a positive and lasting impact on society . Her perpetual quest for innovation and entrepreneurial spirit make her an inspiring example for future generations of entrepreneurs in Quebec and beyond . <p> Andre Smith <h> CEO , Flip &amp; Floss <p> City : Brampton , Ontario <p> Country of origin : Jamaica <p> Andre Smith is the founder and CEO of Flip &amp; Floss , operating under the banner of Flip Academy , a premier fintech company dedicated to revolutionizing financial literacy education for children . Leveraging innovative tools such as animation , simulation and gamification , Smith and his team have been instrumental in empowering young minds with essential money management skills . <p> In recognition of his exceptional commitment to promoting financial literacy , Smith was honoured with the prestigious CBC Toronto award in 2020 for his voluntary contributions to the cause . His company , Flip Academy , was also named a finalist in the 2023 Small Business Big Impact Award by Meridian Credit Union . He extends his passion for mentorship beyond his professional endeavours , volunteering at YESS Global where he provides invaluable guidance to high school students . <p> Since 2020 , Smith has positively impacted the lives of over 20,000 individuals , equipping them with the knowledge and tools necessary to enhance their financial well-being and begin the journey towards building generational wealth . Notably , he spearheaded one of the pioneering financial literacy workshop series tailored for inmates and has consistently collaborated with high school students across various jurisdictions to prepare them for future success . <p> Driven by an ambitious vision , Smith aims to ensure that every child in Canada has the financial resources to pursue higher education or homeownership . He firmly believes that his innovative app will serve as a catalyst for children to learn crucial money management skills , cultivate saving habits , explore investment opportunities , and break free from the constraints of generational financial cycles . <p> Hailing from Jamaica , Smith has proudly called Canada home for the past 12 years . He holds a bachelor 's degree in accounting from York University and attributes great importance to his Canadian identity , viewing it as a commitment to caring for both his family and his community . Through his unwavering dedication and vision , Smith continues to make profound strides in reshaping the landscape of financial education for future generations . <p> Anastasia Artemova <h> Founder and CEO , MavenMind <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Russia <p> Named Canada 's Emerging Leader in the " People and Culture " category by The Peak and Top Female Founders to Watch by FoundersBeta , Anastasia Artemova is founder and CEO of MavenMind and MTC Media where she is focusing her work on helping newcomers excel and thrive in Canada . <p> Born in Ukraine and raised in Russia , she moved to Canada as a teenager in 2009 . Faced with cultural shock and identity crises of being both a newcomer and a teenager , Artemova immersed herself in volunteering with St John 's Ambulance , providing first aid as a first responder around the Island of Montreal . She provided 1000+ hours of community service , taught first aid to 50+ students and eventually ran operations in her division . <p> As volunteering helped Artemova integrate and make friends , she completed her bachelor of commerce at Concordia University in Montreal . She became an active member of the Montreal and Toronto Tech Startup scene helping various startups build innovative products that help more Canadians . Artemova started mentoring younger generations as part of Techstars Accelerator and Youth Employment Services to inspire more women to join technology startups . <p> Her passion for helping others led her to start a rapidly growing YouTube channel " Make That Change " helping newcomers make educated decisions and prepare for their big move to Canada . She 's learned that the biggest factor for the newcomer 's success is finding a good job and establishing their career with confidence . <p> Artemova , together with her MavenMind co-founders who are also immigrants to Canada , has built a career platform that 's helping hundreds of newcomers prepare for the Canadian job market and land their dream job in Canada faster . <p> In her spare time , Artemova continues mentoring young entrepreneurs , takes occasional rock climbing trips to the Rockies and enjoys her time with her partner , Anna , playing in the backyard with their two cats , Mars and Luna . <p> Abel Maxwell <h> Artist and entrepreneur <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : Togo , West Africa <p> Abel Maxwell , a Toronto-based singer-songwriter , bestselling author and entrepreneur raised in West Africa , France and in the Netherlands , is passionate about bridging cultural divides and promote intercultural learning . <p> He released five albums , performed globally with music focusing on youth empowerment , leadership and intercultural understanding , earning him grants and international recognition . <p> Additionally , he co-authored a bestselling book with Brian Tracy and received numerous awards ( including the UNESCO Community Achievement Award ) and honours for his contributions to the arts and multiculturalism . <p> Maxwell 's impactful work garnered widespread media coverage , accolades and has earned him acknowledgment from organizations like the International Association of Parliamentarians of La Francophonie , culminating in the prestigious Order of La Pleiade . <p> On March 20 , 2024 , he was formally awarded this honour by the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario , highlighting his significant impact on Canadian society and beyond . <p> As the Youth Representative on the United Nations SGD4 High Level Committee on Education , Kenisha Arora has a mandate regarding the global governance of education and youth engagement in the SDG framework . Arora recently launched a Youth Declaration at the United Nations headquarters that brought together the perspectives and recommendations of 500,000 youth from 170+ countries . This declaration shows her dedication to amplifying the voices of young people and advocating for their education.In addition to her work at the United Nations , Arora is a student at Western University , studying medical science with aspirations of becoming a cardiothoracic surgeon . She has also served as a student senator , a student board of governors ' member and a student council board director at Western University . Through these leadership roles , Arora has been instrumental in influencing several educational policies in the interest of the students of the university . She has also pushed for the student voice for a sustainable future to be better reflected in student council 's policies and governance . One of the ways she has achieved this is by advocating for the divestment from companies and organizations that explore the use of and currently use fossil fuels . <p> Arora 's volunteer achievements are equally as impressive . During the COVID-19 pandemic , she co-founded The HopeSisters , a non-profit organization focused on spreading hope to vulnerable communities . The organization began with Arora and her sister writing cards for seniors in long-term care homes and creating " HopeBags " for disadvantaged children . Since then , The HopeSisters has grown into a movement , with 5,000+ " HopeSpreaders " and many global school chapters.One of the most remarkable things about The HopeSisters is its focus on giving young girls access to education in Malawi and Liberia , where many young girls do not have access to quality education . Through school chapters in these countries , The HopeSisters have been able to provide educational resources and support to girls who may not have had the opportunity to attend school otherwise . <p> Arora has received several awards and honours for her outstanding work in advocacy , humanitarian service , and entrepreneurship , including the Princess Diana Award , which recognizes young people who have made a positive impact in their communities . She also received the Ivey Business School Founder 's Award , which provides $20,000 in funding to student entrepreneurs who demonstrate innovative thinking and a commitment to entrepreneurship . Arora has also been recognized for her work in education advocacy and humanitarian service , being selected as a Top 10 Finalist for the Global Student Prize out of tens of thousands of nominations from 150+ countries . <p> Additionally , Arora has been named one of London 's Top 20 in their 20s and placed first in Western University 's Brain &amp; Mind Competition . <p> Sabine Monpierre <h> Human rights education and cooperation advisor <p> City : Montreal <p> Place of Origin : Guadeloupe -- French West Indies <p> Sabine Monpierre is an education and cooperation advisor at the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse . Her files touch on the issues of the rights of racialized people : racism , discriminatory profiling , discrimination in housing and hateful acts . She raises awareness of human rights in Quebec by developing tools , promoting and popularizing the rights contained in the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms . <p> This community-sector professional has worked for 12 years on professional integration among recent immigrants . She graduated in community development and intercultural relations , she mobilizes for the fight against all forms of exclusion and contributes to the reflections within the Education and Awareness Committee of the Coalition Against Hate and the advisory committee of the Week of Action against Racism . Her skills are sought in personal identity , stereotyping , prejudice and discrimination and identity formation among racial minorities and majority groups . <p> Outgoing first vice-president of the Intercultural Council of the City of Montreal in 2019 , she is a member of one of Correctional Services Canada 's Regional Ethnocultural Advisory Committees . Since 2020 , she has been making recommendations so that the needs of ethnocultural and racialized inmates are identified and met through the provision of effective services and interventions that will contribute to the success of their social reintegration and the improvement of public safety . <p> Former city councillor candidate for the 2021 municipal elections , she is dedicated to the socio-economic development of Afro-Caribbean communities . She is also the founding president of Arbre du voyageur -- Insertion and Integration Services for West Indians in Canada for four years , which provides West Indians with services to integrate in Canada . The members are equipped with free educational workshops on cultural codes , Quebec and Canadian values . <p> The commitment to the preservation of Black history and the achievements of Monpierre have often been highlighted , whose most recent recognitions are being the winner of the 32nd edition of the Black History Month calendar . Being founding director of Femmes &amp; traditions , she was recently accredited as a member of the 2003 UNESCO Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage <p> Alejandro Mayoral Banos , PhD <h> Activist ; academic <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of Origin : Mexico <p> Alejandro Mayoral Ba ? os , PhD , is a highly accomplished technologist , researcher , educator , activist , leader and mentor who has dedicated his career to improving the wellbeing of Indigenous peoples and their communities . With a PhD in Communication &amp; Culture from York University and Toronto Metropolitan University , he specializes in the intersections between Indigeneity , decolonization and digital technologies . He is the founder and executive director of the Indigenous Friends Association ( IFA ) , an Indigenous-led tech not-for-profit in Canada that promotes digital pathways grounded in Indigenous ways of being through education , software solutions and research , driving positive change for current and future generations . His work and commitment are a reminder of the role of newcomers and immigrants in reconciliation with Indigenous nations and communities across Canada . <p> Under Mayoral Ba ? os ' exemplary leadership , the IFA has seen tremendous growth and continuously impacted Indigenous peoples ' lives across Canada . His vision for incorporating Indigenous ways of knowing and doing into the design of digital technologies has led to safer and more sustainable virtual spaces for Indigenous Peoples , creating lasting change in support of Indigenous communities entering the tech labour market and transitioning to sustainable career pathways . In March 2023 , the IFA had more than 25 staff members . <p> Over the years , Mayoral Ba ? os has participated in several initiatives in Canada , Latin America , and the United Nations , connecting digital education initiatives to the self-determination of Indigenous peoples . In 2007 , he founded the non-profit organization Magtayan ? in Mexico , which promotes the wellbeing and sustainability of Indigenous communities by reconstructing the social fabric . Currently , he serves as their board president . He has also been an active member of various organizations , including Youth Action Net ( International Youth Foundation ) , Ibero-American Network of Young Leaders ( RJLI ) , EPIC Leadership Canada , and Tierra Comun ( a collective focused on decolonizing data ) . <p> Mayoral Ba ? os has received numerous awards , including the CBC Toronto Community Champion Award in 2020 and the Mexican National Award : CEMEFI 's Reconocimiento al Compromiso por los Dem ? s 2020 , which recognized his remarkable contributions to society across Turtle Island ( North America ) . He has also presented at various national and international forums , such as 4S Conference , Creative Commons Global Summit , UN Climate Forum Adaption Week , the IAVE World Volunteer Conference , RightsCon 2018-2022 , etc . <p> Mayoral Ba ? os moved to Canada in August 2014 , and his achievements and contributions have already earned him the respect and admiration of his peers and colleagues because he is truly a visionary leader for Indigenous rights , tech equity and digital sovereignty . <p> Tasneem Bandukwala <h> Advocate for multiculturalism and community building <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of Origin : India <p> Tasneem Bandukwala is a highly creative , driven and accomplished advocate for multiculturalism and community building with a passion for main streets and small businesses , the backbone of the Canadian economy . As an executive director of two of 82 Toronto Business Improvement Areas , Bandukwala has made a significant impact on Canada 's small business and cultural landscape by consistently demonstrating her ability to create engaging and creative solutions that bring communities together through innovative marketing and promotional campaigns , streetscape improvements , street events and membership engagement and policy development . <p> As a liaison between Canada 's small businesses and the City of Toronto , city councillors , members of the government , community agencies , media and residents , Bandukwala acts as unified voice and helps member businesses navigate through opportunities and challenges to grow sustainably . Bandukwala defied the challenge of revitalizing of one of Toronto 's main streets popularly known as ' ' Little India ' ' and to bring back the legacy of the Gerrard India Bazaar BIA in the midst of neighbourhood gentrification and increased alternate choices for South Asian diaspora in the GTA . <p> She has been instrumental in developing strategies for community economic development and placemaking initiatives and events , including North America 's largest south Asian street festival , Festival of South Asia , the Frozen Heritage Ice Sculpture Festival , Diwali Mela , Bazaar Beats , which have become hallmark events in Toronto 's cultural calendar . Her contribution to the Uptown Yonge BIA has been instrumental in providing efficient and effective leadership to implement strategic initiatives that reflects the changing needs and priorities of the community and local businesses . <p> From creating first-time events like Halloween Haunt UP , CelUPbrate Winter , CelUPbrate Mom to launching a mobile app to drive foot traffic to the members businesses and create dynamic and engaging content , Uptown Yonge BIA has successfully set a benchmark and has become a sought-after destination to live , shop and dine . Her ability to think outside the box and come up with creative solutions has earned her numerous awards from the TABIA ( Toronto Association of Business Improvement Areas ) . Some of these awards include : <p> Bandukwala also serves as a marketing &amp; event consultant to clients in Canada as well as the United States of America and has been invaluable in helping businesses grow and succeed . <p> In addition to her professional accomplishments , Bandukwala has served on the City of Toronto 's Community Police Liaison Committee ( CPLC ) for several years and has advocated for building a safe community . She also serves on the board of DEI ( Diversity , Equity , Inclusion ) . <p> Born in Mumbai and now a Canadian resident for seven years , she holds a bachelor of management studies and a postgraduate master of commerce degree with international marketing honours from the University of Mumbai . Additionally , she has earned the local economic development ( LED ) certification from Toronto Metropolitan University . <p> Vishad Deeplaul <h> Senior manager , equity , diversity and inclusion , City of Burnaby <p> City : Coquitlam , B.C. <p> Country of Origin : South Africa <p> Vishad Deeplaul ( he/him/his ) , the first senior manager for equity , diversity and inclusion ( EDI ) , for the City of Burnaby is a true advocate for change ; lending his voice to support many marginalized groups in South Africa , the country where he was born , raised and immigrated from almost six years ago together with his husband and son . <p> His focus is primarily on fostering respect and understanding in the workplace and driving towards fair , equitable treatment for all . His first-hand experience in driving change has contributed to his passion for EDI . Together with his husband , they sparked constitutional change in South Africa in support of equal treatment for all fathers , changing South African history and one if his proudest accomplishments as he explains in a Tri-City News article . <p> Deeplaul draws his inspiration from the life and teachings of Nelson Mandela , playing a pivotal role in getting the Nelson Mandela Capture Site sculpture project implemented in his hometown in KwaZuluNatal . This capture site and work of art now holds deep significance for all South Africans , reminding us of the importance of respecting and appreciating EDI in all that we do . <p> Deeplaul 's experience with non-profit organizations includes his work and volunteerism at United Way , Backpack Buddies , The Peoples Pantry and Tri-Cities United ; celebrating the communities that we live , work and play in . His contagious enthusiasm and zest for life has been widely recognized as the recipient of the City of Coquitlam Spirit Award 2020 , Port Coquitlam Volunteer of the Year 2020 and 2021 ; as well as nominations for British Columbia Medal of Good Citizenship Award 2020 and the Tri-Cities ChamberAwards for both Community Spirit and Business Excellence in 2020 and again in 2021 . <p> Deeplaul also plays a role in bringing both the Diwali Fest and Colour Fest to the province , traditional celebrations that are celebrated across the globe in the South Asian community . A celebration that encompasses art , culture and community . Deeplaul is very proud to be Canadian , not forgetting his South African roots and community that have all played such an important role and equipped him with the life tools to continue the meaningful work that he loves doing <p> Winston Sayson <h> Retired Crown Counsel ; community volunteer <p> City : Richmond , B.C. <p> Country of Origin : Philippines <p> Winston Sayson and his family immigrated from the Philippines in 1981 . He served with excellence as a trial Crown Counsel with the BC Prosecution Service and in his community work . He developed expertise in the prosecution of crimes against children and vulnerable victims and trained others . Sayson helped develop the innovative use of accredited facility dogs to help children and vulnerable witnesses testify in court . He supported the use and advancement of forensic nursing within the criminal justice system . <p> He mentored countless students and professionals both in and out of work . His work dealt with death , serious injuries and violence . This included cases of vehicular homicide , domestic violence , sexual assault and child abuse . This took a toll on him . He advocates for bringing mental wellness to the forefront of the legal profession . While a full-time Crown Counsel , he completed part-time studies to be a counsellor and mentor to others . <p> Sayson also volunteers as an emergency support services worker with the Canadian Red Cross . He is an adviser for the BC Federation of Asian-Canadian Lawyers . He serves on the board of directors of the Christian Legal Fellowship . He provides mentorship to law students , articling students and new lawyers . <p> Sayson gives free presentations on mental health and wellness to members of the legal profession as well as to university students . He is a Life Group leader for his church and a facilitator for a ministry helping children from broken families . He is committed to greater service for his community . <p> Sayson is a distinguished Filipino-Chinese Canadian who personifies the virtues of the Medal of Good Citizenship ( BC 's second highest award ) as demonstrated through his three-decade-long legal career , steadfast service to victims of crime , dedication to the rule of law and volunteer work . <p> He has been recognized with many awards including : <p> 2010 Police Victim Services Criminal Justice System Leadership Award , in recognition of compassionate work with victims of crimes and families <p> 2011 Appointed Queen 's Counsel by the BC Attorney General to recognize exceptional merit , contribution , professional integrity , and good character <p> 2014 Recognizing Excellence Award , BC Prosecution Service , Ministry of Attorney General for the leading role as trial Crown Counsel <p> 2015 Vision Award , International Association of Forensic Nursing , for assisting the advancement and use of Forensic Nursing within the Criminal Justice System <p> 2019 Award of Excellence , Surrey Women 's Centre , for excellence and commitment to justice for women , girls and victims of domestic violence and sexual assault <p> 2019 Lawyer of Distinction , BC Federation of Asian Canadian Lawyers , for excellence and leadership within the Pan-Asian legal community <p> 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award , Kwantlen Polytechnic University , for demonstrating lifetime accomplishments in professional work , service to the community , and exemplifying resilience in the face of adversity <p> 2022 Outstanding Contribution Award from the Forensic Nursing Services of the Fraser Health Authority for advocating the development and use of Forensic Nursing in criminal courts <p> 2022 British Columbia Medal of Good Citizenship recognition for generous , kind , or selfless service for the common good without expectation of reward and for individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the community 's wellbeing . <p> Wyle Baoween <h> Founder and CEO , HRx <p> City : Vancouver <p> Country of Origin : Yemen <p> Wyle Baoween is originally from Yemen and came to Canada in 2011 to study for his MBA . Since then , he has become a successful entrepreneur , recognized thought leader , and highly sought-after speaker on social equity , diversity and inclusion in the workplace . <p> While working for 10 years as a civil engineer in marine , construction and transportation industries around the globe , Baoween was witness to many workplace inequities . With his inherent entrepreneurial spirit , he jumped at the opportunity to create a positive impact and in 2016 he founded HRx . <p> At the time , equity , diversity and inclusion were far from mainstream . Leaving a secure job to start HRx was a big risk , especially for a newcomer to Canada with a young family . But his mission was for all workplaces to be fair and to offer a sense of belonging , regardless of a person 's identity . <p> In its early days , HRx was recognized as " one of Vancouver 's startups to watch . " It has grown to become Canada 's leading provider of practical , data-informed solutions for equity , diversity and inclusion . Baoween is now a trusted advisor to senior leaders at some of Canada 's largest organizations , and year after year HRx has proven to increase the diversity of workplaces , leadership teams , and boards and improve employees ' sense of fairness and belonging . <p> Baoween is the founder and former president of the Yemeni Canadian Society , which he started to build connections and help people from Yemen settle and adapt . He is also a board member of the Nature Conservancy of Canada , vice chair of the Greater Vancouver Board of Trade 's Diversity and Inclusion Council , volunteer mentor at the Urban Native Youth Association , and a past board member at Mosaic . <p> Baoween is a contributing author to research publications with the University of Toronto , the University of Victoria and the Conference Board of Canada . He often reflects on his own journey : " Coming to Canada was a huge achievement and one of the things I am most fortunate for in my life . " He lives by a philosophy of inclusivity and seeks always to bring more people into the conversation . <p> Our Spring Sale Has Started <p> You can see how this popup was set up in our step-by-step guide : https : **39;441;TOOLONG ... Syed Najam Hassan <p> Founder , Love with Humanity Association ; account manager <p> City : Calgary <p> Country of origin : Pakistan <p> Syed Najam Hassan and his family immigrated to Canada from Pakistan -- first to Toronto and then to their present home in Calgary in 2009 . In Canada , he upgraded his skills to an MBA from the University of Fredericton , and is currently working in his profession as an account manager . <p> Having faced some challenges during settlement , he decided to help others who were facing similar issues and developed a passion to give back to his community . So he launched his first project , which included job searching skills , resum ? writing and interviewing skills for other newcomers . <p> Hassan realized the isolation new immigrants face and came up with an idea of providing books for them in their own language . He designated his front lawn as a venue for place to sit , read and socialize with others . For that reason , he introduced a multicultural outdoor free public library and placed tables and chairs in his front yard , built a mini library , and filled it with books in various languages . So far , he has built and donated 22 libraries in various neighbourhoods in Alberta as community gifts . <p> During the pandemic , unemployment became an issue for many . Hassan responded to the situation with the idea of community outdoor food banks with the motto , " Take a blessing / leave a blessing . " So far , Hassan and his volunteers have set up eight community outdoor food banks in different communities . <p> Hassan says his aim is to reach out with love to all in need , regardless of race , religion or ethnicity . He is the founder and president of the non-profit organization , Love with Humanity Association . In addition to the libraries and food banks , he and his team have accomplished numerous projects : seminars for immigrants , food deliveries for those in isolation , holiday celebrations , winter gear for the homeless , " Coffee with Seniors " and free tax filing . The aim of his projects is to strengthen the community . <p> Hassan has received many awards and medals for his community services , the most recent being the Alberta Service Award . <p> Mohamed Khalil <p> Entrepreneur and PhD candidateCity : MontrealCountry of origin : Egypt <p> Mohamed Khalil is a multi-award-winning entrepreneur , CEO of Pyrocycle and Ph.D . candidate at the Department of Chemical Engineering at Polytechnique de Montr ? al . Holding a bachelor 's and master 's degree in mechanical engineering , he started his career based on his patent-pending technology for recycling end-of-life electronics waste . <p> His Ph.D . project focused on developing a new thermochemical process for recycling end-of-life electronics waste , which could greatly facilitate moving forward to produce clean and high-quality products including the recovery of precious metals . In April 2017 , he was selected among the Top 25 emerging entrepreneurs in Quebec by the Claudine and Stephen Bronfman Family Foundation and C2 Montr ? al . <p> He won the province-wide Forces Avenir 2017 Award for the best university project in the Entrepreneurship , Business and Economy category . He was the National Finalist of Startup Canada Awards 2017 ( Category : Newcomer Entrepreneur ) . He was selected among the six young innovators supported by the Fonds de recherche du Qu ? bec ( FRQ ) as part of the entrepreneurial contest Adopte inc. 2018 . <p> In September 2018 , he was honoured as a Clean50 -- Emerging Leader , for demonstrated leadership in sustainability through the development of his innovative solution for recycling electronic waste , and his project was named as one of Canada 's Clean50 Top Project Award winners . He was selected as a Canadian delegate for the G20 -- Young Entrepreneurs ' Alliance 2019 that was held in Japan . <p> He received the 2019 Ordre des ing ? nieurs du Qu ? bec " Recognition for outstanding contribution " and was selected among the Top 20 Personality of Diversity by Deloitte Canada and Media Mosa ? que . His technology was selected among the top 10 inventions of Quebec in 2019 by the magazine Quebec Science . <p> A recipient of numerous awards for youth leadership , Palash Sanyal , PMP , certified EQ coach , is committed to creating space to listen and learn together while addressing global water security , one of the world 's most pressing challenges . <p> Sanyal currently acts as the strategic partnership and project manager at the Global Institute for Water Security , University of Saskatchewan ( USask ) . Previously , he worked for the USask 's School of Environment and Sustainability ( SENS ) , International Fund for Agricultural Development ( IFAD ) , WaterAid and other international agencies . He has worked in remote and vulnerable communities , including the urban poor in Bangladesh and Indigenous communities in Canada , focusing on water issues . <p> A multidisciplinarian by training and experience , Sanyal builds meaningful partnerships with organizations to promote water sustainability and stewardship . He is passionate about climate change and water 's economic and human dimensions , the food-water nexus and community engagement in water governance . Under the leadership of world-renowned hydrologist Jay Famiglietti , Sanyal recently managed the preparation of Valuing Water Global Assessment Report , which will inform investors and companies worldwide about industry impact on freshwater . <p> Promoting new ideas that can support and enhance local culture , diversity and talents have been a significant objective of Sanyal 's engagements in Canada . He is the founding curator for the TEDx at USask and the World Economic Forum Global Shapers Saskatoon hub . In addition , he serves as a board member for SaskGalleries , International Association for Public Participation Canada and WaterAid Canada . He is also a part of the City of Saskatoon 's Environment Committee and Local Immigration Partnership ( LIP ) group . <p> Born and raised in Bangladesh , Sanyal came to Canada in 2017 and calls Saskatoon his home . He finds inspiration from his mother , who raised him and his sister against all odds and ensured that they grew up as educated and self-driven individuals . He holds a bachelor 's degree in engineering and three master 's degrees , all related to water . A lifelong learner , Sanyal is currently pursuing a CPA accreditation . You can find him riding his motorbike around Saskatoon in his spare time . <p> Shela Hirani <p> Associate Professor ( nursing ) , lactation consultant and advocate of baby-friendly initiatives , University of Regina <p> City : Regina , Saskatchewan <p> Country of origin : Pakistan <p> Born and raised in Pakistan , Shela Hirani is a neonatal and child health nursing professional , academician , researcher , lactation consultant and an advocate of baby-friendly initiatives . She earned her PhD in nursing in 2019 from the University of Alberta . Her professional goal is to make a difference in the lives of marginalized women and children through her research work , leadership and community services . <p> Hirani is recognized as one of 100 outstanding women nurse and midwife leaders from around the world by Women in Global Health in partnership with the World Health Organization , International Council of Nurses , International Confederation of Midwives , United Nations Population Fund and Nursing Now . She is also the recipient of Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing 's Emerging Nurse Researcher award 2020 , the Vanier Canada Graduate Scholarship Award and the Honorary Izaak Walton Killam Memorial Scholarship Award for her outstanding academic excellence , community services , leadership and contribution for knowledge development in nursing . <p> She is actively involved in breastfeeding advocacy in diverse care settings and health promotion of vulnerable women and young children who are refugees , immigrants , internally displaced and homeless . In Canada , she is actively involved in advocating for safe spaces to remove breastfeeding barriers in a variety of public places like airports , shopping malls , restaurants , mothers ' workplace settings , child daycare centres , hospitals and post-secondary institutions . <p> She is actively involved in work surrounding the improvement of health equity , health systems , programs and policies that often negatively affect the health and wellbeing of marginalized and vulnerable groups of women and young children , especially those affected by disaster and displacement . She has established her program of research entitled Breastfeeding Advocacy Research : Program , Practices and Policies ( BARPPP ) . The key goal of BARPPP is to contribute in improving breastfeeding rates in Canada , especially among women who are Indigenous , refugee , immigrant , homeless , displaced after natural disaster , and/or negatively affected by COVID-19 pandemic . Another goal of BARPPP is to facilitate implementation of baby-friendly initiatives in hospitals and community-based settings of Canada . <p> Hirani is hopeful that her breastfeeding advocacy movement through her research will develop knowledge , guide future research and improve the wellbeing of breastfeeding mothers and young children in Canada and beyond . <p> Milena Marques-Zachariah <p> Advertising and media professional <p> City : Toronto <p> Country of origin : India <p> Canada afforded Milena Marques-Zachariah the perfect platform to combine her creativity with compassion when she landed here in 1999 , armed with years of advertising experience in Mumbai and Dubai . She started volunteering her time and expertise as soon as she arrived at the Scarborough Women 's Centre and the Breastfeeding Association of Canada . <p> Understanding that the emerging multicultural landscape of Canada needed professionals to help advertisers connect effectively with diverse ethnic groups , she started her successful creative consultancy , Out of my Mind . She was one of the pioneers in multicultural marketing , helping national and multinational companies understand the importance of cultural connect . <p> Marques-Zachariah is also a published short story writer , blogger and columnist . Her observations on life for new immigrants led her to create the column ' Confessions of an Immigrant Housewife ' for the Weekly Voice newspaper . Her blog , ' Canadian Chronicles , ' records the journey of ordinary folk who 've overcome extraordinary challenges to settle in their new home . Her other blog , ' Chasing the Perfect Curry , ' introduced foodies to the yet unexplored part of India 's incredibly varied cuisine on the Konkan coast , now extended to curry chases in and around Toronto . <p> Marques-Zachariah created waves by creating , producing and hosting the first radio program in Konkani in North America , providing a platform for Canada 's Konkani speaking diaspora . Now a not-for-profit , this podcast is available to listeners across the globe . <p> Currently she 's the senior editor at Liisbeth , an online magazine for enterprising feminists looking to connect , grow and flourish . She is president of the board of directors of the Elizabeth Fry Society of Peel-Halton , empowering and providing coping strategies and opportunities to women who are at risk , or in conflict with the law . She also mentors new immigrants at the Dixie-Bloor Neighbourhood Centre . <p> She 's been recognized for her commitment to the community by the Mangalorean Association of Canada , Dixie Bloor Neighbourhood Centre and Absolutely Fabulous Women . <p> Maria Dina Galura was featured in the inaugural list of " Calgarians We Love " by Avenue magazine in 2021 . This was a nod to her large-scale balloon art installations for the community . <p> Back home , she was the lone female warehouseman in the raw materials department of a paper mill . Later on , she moved to be part of the key startup team for Texas Instruments Clark . In Calgary , she expanded her career in oil and gas as a planner/scheduler . <p> In 2015 , she started a side party business , Calgary Party 50 because she had leftover party supplies from one of her daughter 's birthday parties . She later focused on her childhood love of balloons and started to create large-scale art installations -- all from balloons . <p> Her first installation was for 2017 Beakerhead , an art , science and engineering festival , was along the Calgary Transit line where 5,000 white balloons spilled out of Canada Legion No. 1 heritage building . For Mother 's Day 2018 , her giant confetti balloon graced a magazine 's front cover . <p> " Dreams Never Die " was presented in fall 2018 , a version of the animated movie UP house that went viral , seen in HuffPost Canada and Calgary Herald . She has continued to create balloon art in Edmonton , Calgary , Banff and Lake Louise . Thousands of balloons were seen at winter festivals , corporate events , charity galas and shopping mall offerings , even at TEDx as an artist in residence . Her passion project is an annual community gift at the architectural maven Calgary Central Library , one of Times 100 Places to Visit in 2019 . <p> Galura names her installations with Tagalog words as a tribute to her roots . In CBC 's Kapitbahay ( neighbour in Tagalog ) Series , she was featured for her Iskrambol ( Ice Scramble ) winter installation in 2021 . <p> Her balloon work has been repeatedly shared by Qualatex , the leading balloon manufacturer in the U.S. and Canada . <p> Along with her husband and three daughters , they love day trips to the Rockies . Galura calls Calgary home for 10 years and wants to do continuing education to complement her certificate of project management from University of Calgary , Bachelor of science in industrial engineering and masters in management from the University of the Philippines . <p> Jatinder Chadha <p> Program manager <p> City : Ottawa <p> Country of origin : India <p> Jatinder Chadha has been recognized numerous times for his work in the community . Hon. Governor General David Johnson awarded him the Governor General 's Sovereign 's Medal for Volunteer in 2016 . He received Ottawa Mayor 's City Builder Award , United Way 's Community Builder Award , Minister ( MPP ) Lisa Macleod 's Canada 150 , and MP Chandra Arya 's Canada 150 medal . Chadha has also been recently appointed to Ontario Trillium Foundation 's Grant review committee . <p> Chadha migrated to Canada with his parents and younger brother at a young age of 16 with a big dream . For a young teenager arriving in a complete foreign county in late ' 90s , Chadha faced many challenges . Usually at that age , teenagers get to experience life 's most cherish moments with their childhood friends and high school colleagues , but life had different plans for him at that time . Shortly after arrival , he was faced with survival challenge as both his parents did n't speak English and could n't get any jobs . Chadha took upon the challenge to start his first job as a dishwasher at local restaurant while attending high school . Gradually , he moved to other positions such as baker , cashier , salesman while attending night school to complete his graduation . <p> Upon graduation , he got a position at JDS Uniphase and ended his career as a trainer prior to the tech meltdown in early 2000s . Thereon , Chadha started driving a cab overnight for 12 hours to support his family . He continued his quest for higher education while working night shifts . He took HR management courses at Algonquin College and Carleton University to continually develop his skillset . Shortly afterward , Chadha got a position as a bus operator at OC Transpo in 2003 and gradually moved up the ladder . <p> Chadha is currently working a program manager with City of Ottawa overseeing rail operations with annual budget of over $70 million . Chadha is a highly motivated , ambitious and passionate community leader . Since early 2000 , he has been instrumental in building strong community presence over the years . He has served on many non-profit organization 's boards including India Canada Association , Barrhaven Foodbank , East Barrhaven community association and Punjabi Community Health Services <p> Nisreen Baker <h> Director and screenwriter <p> City : Edmonton <p> Country of origin : Egypt <p> Nisreen Baker has been working in the film industry for over 20 years , collaborating with local and international talents and broadcasters to create multilingual films that promote multiculturalism , give voice to underrepresented and marginalized communities , and explore cultural identity and sociopolitical issues . <p> Her passion for these topics stems from her exposure to different cultures , religions and societies , having lived in six different countries around the world and gained firsthand experience with social and political turmoil . <p> When Baker and her husband decided to immigrate , the choices were Australia , Canada or the U.S. To educate themselves about their new home , they read about each country 's history and laws ; it was the Canadian Charter of Right and Freedoms that won them over , particularly Section 27 : Multicultural Heritage , and the fact that this Charter became part of the Canadian constitution . <p> Baker 's 2023 feature documentary , Arab Women Say What ? ! , paints an unparalleled portrait of Arab women living in Canada . It offers a counter-mainstream narrative that embraces the unique experiences and perspectives of eight Arab women sharing their insights , cuisine and laughter . The film is a radical contemplation on politics , identity and home , unfolding through the provocative conversations , hospitality and openness of a group that 's often underrepresented and misunderstood . <p> Her previous documentary Things Arab Men Say depicts a group of Arab men at a barbershop getting haircuts and shaves , debating various issues and expressing often-surprising views with deft humour . She was nominated for two Rosie Awards for writing and directing this film . Both documentaries were produced by the National Film Board and are available for free streaming on the nfb.ca platform . <p> Her other films include Women of Karaoun , a look at three generations of Lebanese women in Canada that premiered at the Calgary International Film Festival , and Cultural Competency , which follows four immigrant families and one Canadian family as they navigate the challenges they encounter in Canada . <p> To contribute to the community , Baker regularly volunteers in soup kitchens and inner-city elementary schools . <p> Our Spring Sale Has Started <p> You can see how this popup was set up in our step-by-step guide : https : **39;482;TOOLONG ...
