Text ID: t032810
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_south_2024_12/in/119032149.txt

Score (f2_neg): 1
Loading words (f2_neg), N=1: f3 score: 0
<p> Washington : The US reiterated its call for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas as a solution towards ending the conflict between the two warring parties . The remarks were delivered by Matthew Miller , Spokesperson of the US Department of State during the Daily Press Briefing . <p> Answering the questions , Miller spoke about the hostage negotiations in Gaza , civilian casualties , need for a ceasefire and aid in Gaza amongst other significant issues in other countries of West Asia too such as Syria . <p> On being asked about the latest update on the hostage negotiations in Gaza , Miller said that there is a " lot of optimism " . <p> " Negotiations have been productive in recent days . We have continued to try to work with the other mediators to narrow the differences . We have been down this road so many times before , though , it 's hard to stand here and say we 're optimistic about it , because we are very much realistic about how difficult it has been to reach a deal " , he said . <p> " There are a very small number of differences that remain between the parties , and we continue to believe that those differences can be bridged " , he added . <p> On being asked about how the journalists can be protected in Gaza as the causalities have risen to 196 , Miller said , " Journalists in Gaza absolutely need to be protected ... Ultimately the answer to this is to get a ceasefire , which is why we continue to push for a ceasefire . The journalists that are operating in Gaza are doing so with incredible heroism . The U.S. does n't have any personnel on the ground to verify reports , so we rely on journalists to bring that information forward , and we rely on the work that they do . But as long as it is an active conflict zone , journalists are going to be at risk the same way other civilians are going to be at risk , which is why we believe the ultimate answer to this question is to reach a ceasefire and why we continue to use all of the diplomatic muscle that we can bring to bear to try to get one over the line " . <p> Speaking on the deaths of civilians in Gaza , Miller said , " There continue to be unspeakable tragedies happening in Gaza every day , not just the death of civilians , the maiming of civilians , the people who find it difficult to get enough to eat , the people that find it difficult to get access to medical care . It is an ongoing tragedy , and the answer to stopping that tragedy is to reach a ceasefire , which does n't just require acquiescence by Israel ; it requires acquiescence by Hamas " . <p> Miller refused to offer comments on a report by Israeli Maariv Newspaper which said that Egypt has reached on an agreement with the Hamas that a transitional committee which is not Hamas could run Gaza and look after things . <p> Miller said , " I 'm not going to speak to that report . I 'm not aware of it . But I can tell you we have been having conversations with a number of parties in the region for some time about what the post-conflict period ought to look like in Gaza , including what governance ought to look like . We have made clear that the status quo as it existed before October 7th can not continue . Gaza can not continue to be governed by Hamas . But as to what the governance looks like , it 's not something I can speak to today " . <p> Speaking on the access of aid into Gaza , Miller said that despite the challenges there have been improvements . He reiterated that for overcoming the situation , the need for reaching a ceasefire is critical . ( ANI )
