<h> Ceasefire negotiations resume as 32 Gaza residents are killed <p> Syrian rebel forces advanced on the central city of Homs and Kurdish fighters seized effective control of the eastern desert on Friday , jolting President Bashar al-Assad 's grip on power . <p> If Islamist insurgents capture Homs , it would cut off the capital Damascus from the coast , a redoubt of Assad 's minority Alawite sect and where his Russian allies have a naval base and airbase . <p> In a parallel setback for Mr Assad , a US-backed alliance led by Syrian Kurdish fighters took Deir el-Zor , the government 's main foothold in the vast desert in the east , three Syrian sources told Reuters . <p> It was the third major city , after Aleppo and Hama in the northwest and centre , to fall out of Mr Assad 's control in a week . <p> Rebel forces have burst out of their northwestern Idlib bastion to achieve the swiftest battlefield advance by either side since a street uprising against Mr Assad mushroomed into civil war 13 years ago . <p> Assad regained control of most of Syria after key allies -- Russia , Iran and Lebanon 's Hizbullah group -- came to his rescue . But all have recently been weakened by other crises . <p> In response to the rebel advance , Israel has launched attacks and sent reinforcements to its border with Syria <p> The Israeli air force struck the Al-Arida and Jousieh border crossings between Syria and Lebanon on the Syrian side , rendering both crossings inoperable . <p> " This strike is another aspect in the IDF 's Israel Defense Forces efforts to dismantle weapon smuggling routes used by the Syrian regime in the Syrian-Lebanese border over the past few weeks , " the military said in a statement . " These targeted strikes degrade the capabilities of Hizbullah 's unit 4400 , responsible for smuggling weapons that are later used in terror attacks against Israelis and IDF troops . " <p> Israel is also preparing for the possibility that rebels or pro-regime militias backed by Iran may reach the border . <p> Military reinforcements were sent to the occupied Golan Heights which borders Syria . <p> An additional concern is that the Assad regime will have no choice but to accept the help that Iran is offering , increasing Tehran 's influence in the country . However , in the short term the rebel advance may provide a strategic benefit for Israel : if Homs falls , Iran 's main route for smuggling weapons overland to Lebanon will be severed . <p> Meanwhile , negotiations between Israel and Hamas have reportedly resumed , via mediators , on a ceasefire and hostage release deal . Egypt is reportedly expecting a response from an Israeli delegation to Cairo in the coming days . According to foreign sources the emerging deal is expected to include a temporary , two-month ceasefire and the IDF 's redeployment in Gaza rather than a complete withdrawal . <p> At least 32 residents were killed in Gaza in the 24 hours prior to Friday evening , according to the Hamas-run health ministry , bringing to more than 44,600 those killed in the war . Some 1,200 people were killed in the Hamas attack on southern Israel on October 7th last year and 251 taken into captivity in Gaza . <p> Israeli forces stormed into Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahiya in north Gaza and expelled some staff and displaced people before withdrawing , hospital director Dr Hussam Abu Safeia said . He added that only two inexperienced surgeons are left in the hospital . <p> The IDF announced it had killed several senior Hamas members involved in the October 7th attack , including a commander who led the attack on Kibbutz Nahal Oz. -- Additional reporting : Reuters <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
