<h> Government confirms Ireland will intervene in two cases before International Court of Justice <h> One long-running and controversial case seeks a ruling by the court that Israel is in breach of the Genocide Convention <p> Magistrates at the International Court of Justice in The Hague . Ireland will intervene in two cases before the court , including the case taken by South Africa alleging genocide by Israel in Gaza . Photograph : Nick Gammon AFP <p> The Government has previously signalled its intention to join the case , and the T ? naiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs Miche ? l Martin received formal approval for the move during a Cabinet meeting . The necessary legal papers will be lodged with the court before the end of the year . <p> The long-running and controversial case , first brought by South Africa almost a year ago , seeks a ruling by the court that Israel is in breach of the Genocide Convention , an international treaty that obliges states to act to prevent genocide where it is happening . <p> Israel fiercely opposes the case , and it has been criticised by the US , the UK and several other EU countries . Other EU countries including Spain , and a long list of other countries around the world , are supporting the case . <p> In a statement issued after the Cabinet meeting , Mr Martin said that there had been " a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced " . <p> " By legally intervening in South Africa 's case Ireland will be asking the ICJ to broaden its interpretation of what constitutes the commission of genocide by a State , " he said . " We are concerned that a very narrow interpretation of what constitutes genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimised . <p> " Ireland 's view of the convention is broader and prioritises the protection of civilian life -- as a committed supporter of the convention the Government will promote that interpretation in its intervention in this case . " <p> The Government has also approved intervention in The Gambia 's case against Myanmar under the same convention . <p> Sinn F ? in leader Mary Lou McDonald said the " belated decision of the outgoing Cabinet to intervene in the International Court of Justice case against Israel , while welcome , must mark a turning point in the urgency and impetus of the Irish Government in defending international law " . <p> She said that any incoming government must enact sanctions against Israel , accusing it of " decades of oppression against the Palestinian people and a genocide in Gaza that has continued for over a year " . <p> Several NGOs welcomed the move . <p> Stephen Bowen , executive director of Amnesty Ireland , said that it offered " some glimmer of hope for international justice that states such as Ireland are coming forward to intervene in these crucial cases . Past impunity for atrocity crimes , including genocide , fuels the atrocities we see before our eyes today , especially in Gaza . " <p> Karol Balfe , ActionAid Ireland CEO , said that it was " very welcome that Ireland is taking this move and committing to international justice and humanity " . <p> " Every day without action deepens complicity in the deprivation and suffering of innocent civilians . A ceasefire is n't just urgent -- it 's a moral imperative , " she said . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
