<p> An official statement from the Israeli ministry of foreign affairs provided to The Irish Times stated : " The decision to close the Israeli embassy in Dublin was made in light of the extreme anti-Israel policy of the Irish government . <p> " As you may recall , the Israeli ambassador in Dublin was returned to Israel at the time following Ireland 's decision to unilaterally recognise a ' Palestinian state ' . " <p> Nor is the Israeli government shuttering its diplomatic missions in 14 countries which have intervened , or announced that they plan to intervene , in the South Africa case against Israel at the ICJ . <p> Taoiseach Simon Harris described the decision as " regrettable " and denied that the Irish Government has anti-Israeli policies , describing its stance as " pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-international law " . <p> Miche ? l Martin , the T ? naiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs , also criticised the decision and said Ireland had no plans to close its own embassy in Israel . <p> The Israeli foreign ministry 's statement further noted Ireland 's decision on December 11th to join the South African lawsuit against Israel at the International Court of Justice in The Hague ( ICJ ) , which accuses Israel of genocide . <p> Israeli foreign minister Gideon Saar said in the statement : " The anti-Semitic actions and rhetoric that Ireland is taking against Israel are based on delegitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state and on double standards . " <p> He also cited a policy of investing in relations with countries based on their attitude towards Israel . <p> " There are countries that are interested in strengthening their ties with Israel and do not yet have an Israeli embassy , " he said . <p> In the same statement announcing plans to close the Israeli embassy in Dublin the Israeli foreign ministry said it plans to open a new embassy in Moldova in 2025 . <p> According to the ministry 's official statement , " relations between Israel and Moldova are friendly and both countries are interested in expanding and deepening them . Moldova already has an embassy in Israel and the time has come for Israel to have an embassy in Moldova . " <p> " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-international law , " he said . <p> " Ireland wants a two state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . Nothing will distract from that . " <p> Mr Martin received formal approval to to join South Africa 's ICJ case during a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday . <p> The case seeks a ruling by the court that Israel is in breach of the Genocide Convention , an international treaty that obliges states to act to prevent genocide where it is happening . <p> Reacting to Israel 's decision to close its Dublin embassy , Mr Martin said there are no plans to close Ireland 's Embassy in Israel , which is " carrying out important work " . <p> " The continuation of the war in Gaza and the loss of innocent lives is simply unacceptable and contravenes international law , " he said . " It represents the collective punishment of the Palestinian people in Gaza . We need an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostages and a surge of humanitarian aid into Gaza . " <p> " Ireland and Israel will continue to maintain diplomatic relations . Inherent in that is the right to agree and disagree on fundamental points . " <p> Matt Carthy , Sinn F ? in 's spokesman for foreign affairs and defence , said in a post on X : " This is a welcome development - Irish government should have withdrawn diplomatic privileges long ago . Next steps must be passing of the Occupied Territories Bill and suspension of EU Israel Association Agreement . " <p> Richard Boyd-Barrett of People Before Profit described the development as an " important victory for all who have marched and protested in solidarity with the people of Palestine and against the Israeli genocide in Gaza " . <p> Talia N ? Laoghaire , an Irish-Israeli citizen living in Dublin , said Israel 's decision to close its Dublin embassy is " a shame " and that " many of the Israelis living here are quite upset and anxious about it . " <p> " But to be honest , it 's not surprising , " she said . " It 's impossible to hold an embassy in a country that has zero interest in having diplomatic relations . And I can only assume that the security costs were astronomical . " <p> Marcus Lynch , who is originally from Co Clare but living in the UK , returned from Israel on Sunday after completing a a volunteer trip in southern Israel organised by Sar El , an organisation that arranges volunteer placements at Israeli military bases across Israel and the occupied West Bank . <p> Lynch said at Ben Gurion Airport he was questioned by Israeli officials for 40 minutes before he left and said the officials were " very aware of the prevailing mood in Ireland and were shocked I had come to help them " . <p> He said he thought the decision to close the Dublin embassy was " probably a good move politically " and said he believed " Ireland is veering close to widespread anti-semitism " .
