<h> Overwhelming support to keep mural <p> HUNDREDS of people have signed a petition in support of keeping a mural in Ennis which was created in response to the ongoing crisis in Palestine . <p> There are worries the mural may have to be removed after the owner of the building it was painted on received a letter from Clare County Council seeking evidence of planning permission . The local authority has confirmed to The Clare Champion it had received complaints related to an alleged " unauthorised mural development " . <p> The painting on a wall at the Market Street Carpark was commissioned by the People of Clare Against Genocide ( POCAG ) and the Clare branch of the Ireland-Palestine Solidarity Campaign ( IPSC ) and created by local artist Rachel Macmanus with the permission of the building 's owner . Rachel previously told the Clare Champion she wanted the painting , which depicts four Palestinian children , to be a symbol of hope . <p> According to Sarah Geraghty of POCAG , " The People of Clare against Genocide sought permission from the owner of the building who was very happy to offer it to such a lovely inclusive project that would promote such a powerful message of hope , resilience and support to the community in the face of such horrors . We understand that the council have procedures to follow however , we were not aware of such procedures and would hope that they consider the importance of retaining this beautiful piece of art . " <p> National chairperson of the IPSC Zoe Lawlor , said , " It is a monument to human rights and resilience , and against the genocide happening in Gaza . The mural has been widely praised and tourists have sought it out to get photos with it . Senator Frances Black visited it just recently . " <p> She said a decision to remove the mural would be " incomprehensible " saying , " The council , both elected members and council officials , have been very supportive of the people of Gaza since the current genocide began . The council passed motions calling for a ceasefire , supporting the boycott divestment and sanctions movement , calling for the Palestinian flag to be flown outside the council offices and for the introduction of an Ethical Procurement Policy ( EPP ) to exclude companies profiting from the illegal settlements on Palestinian land . Council officials implemented those decisions promptly and efficiently . Clare was the fourth council to propose an EPP but was the first one to complete the whole process , that is testament to their dedication and empathy . " <p> According to both organisations it is understood Tommy Guilfoyle and other councillors are liaising with council officials on this . <p> Sarah said , " I hope the officials will see the value that this mural brings to our community . The People of Clare Against Genocide , Clare IPSC and the very talented artist Rachel Macmanus came together to realise this project to bring a message of hope , peace , love , resilience , and community to the people of Ennis to bring us together not to divide us . <p> " We need art like this in our world , it is important that the voices of the vulnerable are heard in different ways . Art has a way of bringing people together . This mural highlights the real victims of conflicts , wars and genocides -- the children . We owe it to our own children to ensure that this mural stays in Ennis and we hope that the council will support us in any way they can . An online petition by POCAG was signed by roughly a thousand people in just a few days . It is clear that the people have spoken , I hope the council listen to them . " <p> The petition can be found at https : **39;598;TOOLONG ... A spokesperson for Clare County Council in response to queries from The Clare Champion stated , " The Planning Authority of Clare County Council received complaints relating to an alleged unauthorised mural development at the Market Street Car Park . Following an investigation a letter was issued in respect of same in accordance with the Planning and Development Act 2000 , as amended . The file is now active so the local authority can not comment on the specifics of same . <p> " It is worth noting that once a complaint of unauthorised development is received by the council it must be investigated and procedure followed as set out in legislation . <p> " In line with the provisions of the Planning and Development Act the recipient of such a warning letter has a period within which they can respond to the Council . <p> " The council at the end of this response period will then consider the most appropriate action to be taken , if any , having regard to what is required under legislation . "
