<p> The Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar ratcheted up the diplomatic spat when he criticised Ireland 's refusal to adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism . <p> " Ireland did not bother to promote measures to fight antisemitism within the country , on the contrary , " he argued , " they only encouraged it . " <p> Seemingly , particularly incensed by Irish accusations that Israel was starving Palestinian children in Gaza , Sa'ar invoked Ireland 's stance during the second world war . " When Jewish children died of starvation in the Holocaust , Ireland was at best neutral in the war against Nazi Germany . " <p> While many in Ireland may guffaw at those words , there is a perception in Israel that Ireland as a European country is uniquely , and at times peculiar , in its hostility to Israel . Since the beginning of the war , the Israeli media has not been shy of reporting stories of alleged Irish anti-Israeli bias and perceived antisemitism . <p> Whether it was the widely-ridiculed words of then-Taoiseach Leo Varadkar in describing the release of nine-year-old Emily Hand , held hostage by Hamas for seven weeks , as " an innocent child who was lost has now been found " , or when President Higgins in a dismissal of accusations of antisemitism in Ireland strangely invoked the apparent fact that the first president of Ireland Douglas Hyde -- born 164 years ago -- spoke Hebrew . <p> Diplomatic reaction <p> There has been a decidedly mixed reaction in Israeli media and diplomatic circles to the proposed closure of the embassy . This decision was dismissed as a " win for gimmicks over diplomacy " in the left-leaning Israeli newspaper Haaretz . <p> The leader of the opposition Yair Lapid also criticized the decision , stating it was a " victory for antisemitism and anti-Israel organizations " . " The way to deal with criticism is not to run away but to stay and fight , " he said . <p> The Irish Examiner reached out to a number of former and currently serving diplomatic Israeli personnel for comment on the seemingly deepening diplomatic fracas . <p> The Israeli Embassy on Shelbourne Road in Dublin which is to be closed . <p> Mark Sofer , the Israeli Ambassador to Ireland between 1999 and 2002 , criticised the decision , saying " closing the Embassy is a terrible mistake " . He added : " What is needed is enhanced discourse , not its cessation . " <p> Sofer , a harsh critic of Netanyahu and his far-right government , nevertheless argued that Ireland 's public stance on Israel has repeatedly gone beyond valid criticism of the actions of the Israeli government . <p> " The overwhelmingly one-sided anti-Israel narrative in Ireland , unique in Europe and like-minded countries beyond it , has only too often transcended into bigotry and has gone too far even for those of us who have no faith whatsoever in our dreadful government , " he said . <p> Nurit Tinari , who served as Deputy Ambassador to Ireland from 2010 to 2015 , and who continues to work at the Foreign Ministry , felt " deep sadness over the closure -- not because legitimate criticism of the Irish government 's misguided policies toward Israel is n't valid , but because it feels like a farewell to the extraordinary people who stood by Israel through thick and thin , often at great personal cost . " <p> Political ambitions <p> There is a widespread view in Israel , however , that the decision of Gideon Sa'ar to close the embassy is less connected to -- admittedly deteriorating -- Irish-Israeli diplomatic relations and is in fact more coupled with his own personal political ambition . Sa'ar who was very recently appointed to the post of Foreign Minister has been accused of playing to the right-wing audience in Israel . <p> More colourful off-the-record diplomatic voices here accused him of " idiotic " behavior in " trying to justify the unjustifiable " . They said he was " talking to his political base , knowing that anti-Irish sentiment in Israel is now huge " . <p> Sa'ar is leader of a small political right-wing party which , if opinion polls are correct , will likely vanish at the next election . The public attention to this increasingly bitter war of words in the last few days is likely to serve him well with right-wing voters . <p> Arguably , the real losers in this whole sorry saga is the burgeoning Israeli community in Ireland who are now likely to lose access to Israeli consular services in Dublin .
