<p> Those alleged anti-Semites included senators David Norris , Ivana Bacik and myself , among others . The accusation was a grossly defamatory slur on decent people . <p> The Bill was passed at second stage by Seanad ? ireann on December 5th , 2018 , long before the barbaric and unforgivable Hamas war crime of the October 7th , 2023 invasion of southern Israel . The Bill was solely concerned with making it illegal to import goods , services and resources into Ireland originating in settlement enterprises established in lands unlawfully seized by occupying powers , as defined by international law . <p> At the time , our cause of concern was the state-sponsored or state-assisted annexation of lands by Israel in the West Bank and by Russia in eastern Ukraine . But the Bill was of general application to occupied territories recognised as such by competent tribunals for the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 . At stake was the need to stand up to de facto annexation of territory in breach of international law . In the West Bank , there had been a consistent pattern of this by illegal Israeli settlers granted armed protection and encouragement by -- as well as economic integration into -- the state of Israel . The process has been accelerated and consolidated by governments led by Binyamin Netanyahu . Their unstated , but generally understood , strategy was to make the two-state solution for the Israeli-Palestinian issue practically impossible . <p> Ireland has always insisted on the right of Israel to exist and to defend itself in accordance with the internationally recognised boundaries as provided for in UN Resolution 242 . We have never accepted the validity of any formal or informal expansion of Israel into lands in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip . We have been consistently of that position for the last half-century ; that is the international consensus accepted by the UN . Likewise , Ireland upholds international law in relation to the duties and rights of the civilian population of occupied territories . <p> It is now plain that the Netanyahu government is intent on the destruction of any basis for a two-state solution . Part of its strategy was to undermine the position of the Palestinian Authority as an interlocutor and as an entity capable of negotiating that two-state solution at international level . <p> It had been a consistent strategy of the Netanyahu governments to encourage the existence of Hamas as a movement in Gaza with a view to diminishing the status of the authorities in Ramallah . The problem with that strategy was that it ignored what was previously thought to be impossible -- namely that Hamas extremists would prepare and execute a barbaric , murderous ground invasion of Israel itself such as happened 14 months ago . <p> I warned here , and indeed spoke in Seanad ? ireann , about the real choices faced by Israel in the aftermath of October 7th . The sheer scale of killing unleashed by Israel in Gaza has resulted in the deaths of at least 45,000 people . Deaths by disease , malnutrition and by dislocation of elderly and ill patients will probably never be quantified . Who will count the number of limbless , sightless , maimed and deranged survivors ? Who will rebuild the homes , hospitals , schools , mosques and churches that all now lie in rubble there ? Was that all done without long-term consequence ? <p> If the Irish Government is guilty of anything , it is guilty of delay . By deliberately foot-tripping the Occupied Territories Bill in 2018 by a mixture of unlawful stratagems , including the false invocation of imaginary EU legal objections and the withholding of a government money message in the D ? il , it showed weakness and cowardice . <p> Those of us in the Seanad who by great majority supported the Occupied Territories Bill knew that the practical effect of its enactment would be very small , but that it represented a clear legislative statement and a vindication of the fundamental principles of international law and a peaceful world order in the face of forcible annexation and dispossession . <p> Opposition to radical and extremist Zionism is not , and never can be equated to , anti-Semitism . Such opposition is shared by many Jews here and abroad . When the elected government of Israel resorts to such a defamatory equation , it undermines and devalues the very meaning of anti-Semitism . <p> Those of us who abhor the threat to the existence of the state of Israel represented by Hamas , Hizbullah and the Islamic Republic of Iran refuse to be branded anti-Semites for standing by international law -- including military defenders ' duties of proportionality and humanity in relation to the innocent and defenceless . <p> Where are the hostages in the name of whom so much carnage occurred ? Whose survival , I wonder , ultimately mattered more -- theirs or Netanyahu 's ?
