<p> The Economic Freedom Fighters ( EFF ) reaffirms its commitment to the principles of justice , human dignity , and self-determination as we stand in solidarity with the Palestinian people . The International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People is a reminder of the enduring struggle for freedom , equality , and the recognition of their inalienable rights . <p> Today , we reflect on the genocide faced by millions of Palestinians who have been living under occupation for decades by the apartheid Israeli regime , particularly as South Africans who have faced our own journey to liberation against apartheid , oppression and systemic injustice . Our history resonates profoundly with the plight of the Palestinian people . <p> The recent landmark determination by the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) to issue arrest warrants against Benjamin Netanyahu and his subordinate Yoav Gallant highlights the gravity of the Palestinian struggle . Furthermore , by declaring Israel 's occupation of Gaza , the West Bank , and East Jerusalem as unlawful , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) reaffirmed the illegality of annexations , settlements and apartheid policies and practices under international law . These rulings serve as historic moral and legal directives for the global community to act decisively in ending Palestinian suffering . <p> Palestinian perseverance in the face of profound adversity reflects the same resilience that fuelled our fight against apartheid . It is a testament to the unbreakable spirit of a people who refuse to be silenced , who refuse to give up on their dream of living in peace , with sovereignty over their land , their lives , and their future . We , as South Africans , know the pain of dispossession . We know the anguish of oppression . We know the weight of global silence . But we also know the triumph of solidarity . <p> --&gt; <p> The support we received from nations and people across the globe was instrumental in dismantling apartheid . Today . that same solidarity must be extended to the Palestinian people . Any silence in the face of profound injustice is a betrayal to the principles that helped dismantle apartheid in South Africa .
