<h> Rising nationalism and the unravelling of the US-led global order : Marc Champion <p> The unravelling of a US-dominated global order is revealing a fractured world where rising nationalism and regional power plays dominate . In Syria , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham exploited the weakened grip of Assad 's allies to retake Aleppo , while Russia , Iran , and Turkey pursue conflicting goals . Meanwhile , Georgia grapples with its EU aspirations , and Romania sees surging ultra-nationalism . As US influence wanes , a volatile multipolar world emerges , fraught with uncertainty and power struggles . <p> Sign up for your early morning brew of the BizNews Insider to keep you up to speed with the content that matters . The newsletter will land in your inbox at 5:30am weekdays . Register here . <p> The seventh BizNews Conference , BNC#7 , is to be held in Hermanus from March 11 to 13 , 2025 . The 2025 BizNews Conference is designed to provide an excellent opportunity for members of the BizNews community to interact directly with the keynote speakers , old ( and new ) friends from previous BNC events -- and to interact with members of the BizNews team . Register for BNC#7 here . <p> By Marc Champion <p> If you 're curious to know what a truly post-American world will look like , take a close look at what 's been going on the last fewdays , and you 'll get what I suspect is a pretty accurate snapshot . <p> In the Levant , Syria 's smoldering civil war flared up , with an apparently reformed Islamist terrorist organization retaking the northern city of Aleppo . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , surprised even itself by the ease with which President Bashar al-Assad 's forces initially melted before it . <p> This became feasible because Assad 's allies -- who stepped into the void in 2015 , after then-US President Barack Obama declined to hold the ring -- find their militaries sapped by engagements elsewhere . Russia is mired in Ukraine ; Iran and Hezbollah have taken a severe beating from Israel . HTS , backed by Turkey , chose its moment accordingly . <p> None of these players asked US permission to act . Even Israel ignored US opposition to its invasion of Lebanon and continued war in Gaza . President Joe Biden 's lame-duck administration has made clear it has nothing to do with the opposition campaign in Syria , and no interest in its continuation . Conspiracy theorists will need to find new narratives . <p> Meanwhile , in the Transcaucasia region , a long day 's drive northeast from Aleppo , a decision by the government of Georgia to end its bid to join the European Union drew huge crowds into the streets of the capital Tbilisi . They fought rolling street battles with riot police , exchanging fireworks and other projectiles for water-cannon blasts . <p> This is happening , because although the vast majority of Georgians say they want to join the EU , their current government has been able to keep power while abandoning the EU path . That may in part be due to electoral fraud , if opposition allegations prove accurate . But primarily , it 's down to the popular fear -- encouraged by the government itself and a bombardment of Russian propaganda -- that if this small country tries to do what its people want , it will end up like Ukraine . Russian tanks and troops already occupy parts of Georgia barely more than an hour from the capital , so that 's no idle threat . <p> Further west in Ukraine , President Vladimir Putin is ramping up his efforts to seize as much territory and degrade as much of Kyiv 's capacity to resist as he can , ahead of the settlement talks now widely expected to take place after President-elect Donald Trump moves into the White House on Jan. 20 . He 's doing so , because what Trump brings to the table that 's new is a stated desire to end US aid for Ukraine 's defense . <p> A little further west still , in Romania , an ultra-right , anti-Western nationalist party doubled its share of the vote to come second in parliamentary elections , with about 18% , even as France 's hard-right and Putin-friendly Marine Le Pen threatened to tumble the government there . <p> The most important drivers of all these developments are domestic . That 's true even in Syria , where the failure of Assad and his foreign allies to rebuild the economy since fighting subsided around 2019 , made a resurgence of the rebels -- who at root represent the country 's Sunni majority against Assad 's favored Alawite minority -- a matter of when , not if . It 's the enablers that come from outside . <p> Yet there is a common thread stretching from even Trump 's anti-establishment MAGA movement in the US , to Syria , and that is rising nationalism as the old US-dominated , " liberal " order disintegrates . <p> I do n't pretend to know how all any of this will play out . I ca n't even be certain whether the freedom of sovereign states to pursue their perceived interests without US interference will turn out better or worse than what came before . Recall the Cold War -- when the world divided into hostile camps and was prone to proxy wars -- and the unipolar " moment " that followed , when Washington wrote , selectively enforced and often broke the so-called rules-based world order that it pressed upon others . " Pax Americana " never did deliver either world peace or fairness . <p> What 's certain , though , is that there will be turmoil , uncertainty and unfairness in the future . Where we until recently had -- for the most part -- just one major power abusing force to assert itself , we will now have many . <p> Russia , for example , has a perceived national interest in dominating or absorbing its neighbors , whether that 's in the Baltic States , Belarus , Georgia , Moldova , Kazakhstan , Ukraine or indeed the Balkans , as well as keeping its only Mediterranean naval base , which is on the Syrian coast . Turkey has a perceived interest in removing Kurdish fighters from the Syrian side of its border , and in having fellow Sunni allies in charge of Damascus . Iran , meanwhile , has a perceived interest in keeping Assad and the Alawites -- an ethnically Arab Shiite splinter sect -- in control of Syria , and thereby a friendly corridor through which to resupply Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Israel , of course , has a strong incentive to prevent that , although confusingly it also does n't want a radical Sunni regime in Damascus . <p> For now , opposition to the US has united many of the new nationalists , because they are revisionists , unhappy with their borders and the current balance of power ( or in Trump 's case , balance of trade ) . But remove the US , as in essence has happened since the Nov. 5 presidential election made Biden 's administration a lame duck , and their interests will conflict . <p> They wo n't all necessarily go to war . Iran , Russia and Turkey are talking to avoid direct conflict with each other in Syria , while at the same time pursuing their nationalist goals . Yet almost every major event in one theater will have pass-through effects to others , as the opportunistic move by the Turkey-dependent HTS in Syria last weekend showed . Until some new world order emerges , the threat of contagion , or of a regional or even global war , will be ever present .
