<h> Wars mean higher revenues for international defence companies <p> Wars and what the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ( SIPRI ) terms " regional tensions " are given as the major contributors to an over four percent increase in revenue for the top 100 defence industry companies internationally . <p> The " independent resource on global security " as the think tank headquartered in Sweden 's capital bills itself , said in a statement this week that revenues from sales of arms and military services by the 100 largest companies in the industry reached $632 billion in 2023 , a real terms increase of 4.2 percent compared with 2022 . <p> There were arms revenue increases in all regions , with " particularly sharp rises " among companies in Russia and the Middle East . Overall , smaller producers were more efficient at responding to new demand linked to the wars in Gaza and Ukraine , growing tensions in East Asia and rearmament programmes elsewhere . <p> " In 2023 many arms producers ramped up production in response to surging demand . The total arms revenues of the Top 100 bounced back after a dip in 2022 . Almost three quarters of companies increased arms revenues year-on-year . Notably , most of the companies that increased their revenues were in the lower half of the Top 100 , " the statement reads in part . <p> It goes on to quote SIPRI Military Expenditure and Arms Production Programme Researcher Lorenzo Scarazzato , as saying : " There was a marked rise in arms revenues in 2023 and this is likely to continue in 2024 " . <p> " The arms revenues of the Top 100 arms producers still did not fully reflect the scale of demand and many companies have launched recruitment drives , suggesting they are optimistic about future sales . " <p> The 41 companies in the Top 100 based in the United States ( US ) recorded arms revenues of $317 billion , half the total arms revenues of the Top 100 and 2.5 percent more than in 2022 . Since 2018 , the top five companies in the Top 100 are all based in the US . <p> Of the 41 US companies , 30 increased arms revenues in 2023 . On the other side of the ledger Lockheed Martin and RTX , the world 's two largest arms producers , were among those registering a drop . <p> " Larger companies like Lockheed Martin and RTX manufacturing a wide range of arms products often depend on complex , multi-tiered supply chains , which made them vulnerable to lingering supply chain challenges in 2023 , " said Dr Nan Tian , Director of SIPRI 's Military Expenditure and Arms Production Programme . " This was particularly the case in the aeronautics and missile sectors . " <p> The combined arms revenues of the 27 Top 100 companies based in Europe ( excluding Russia ) totalled $133 billion in 2023 . This was 0.2 percent more than in 2022 , the smallest increase in any world region . <p> Behind the low growth figure the picture is more nuanced , according to SIPRI . European arms companies producing complex weapon systems were mostly working on older contracts during 2023 and revenues for the year consequently do not reflect any influx of orders . <p> " Complex weapon systems have longer lead times . Companies that produce them are inherently slower in reacting to changes in demand . That explains why their arms revenues were relatively low in 2023 , despite a surge in new orders , " Scarazzato is quoted as saying . <p> At the same time , a number of other European producers saw arms revenues grow substantially , driven by demand linked to the war in Ukraine , particularly for ammunition , artillery and air defence and land systems . <p> Notably , companies in Germany , Sweden , Ukraine , Poland , Norway and Czechia were able to tap into this demand . As an example Germany 's Rheinmetall increased production capacity of 155 mm ammunition and its revenues were boosted by deliveries of Leopard tanks and new orders , including through war-related ' ring-exchange ' programmes , under which countries supply military goods to Ukraine and receive replacements from allies . <p> The two Russian companies listed in the Top 100 saw combined revenues increase by 40% to reach an estimated $25.5 billion . This was almost entirely due to the 49% increase in arms revenues recorded by Rostec , a state-owned holding company controlling many arms producers , including seven previously listed in the Top 100 for which individual revenue data could not be obtained . <p> " Official data on Russian arms production is scarce and questionable but most analysts believe that the production of new military equipment increased substantially in 2023 , while Russia 's existing arsenal underwent extensive refurbishment and modernization , " said Tian . " In particular , combat aircraft , helicopters , UAVs ( unmanned aerial vehicles ) , tanks , munitions and missiles are all thought to have been produced in greater numbers as Russia continued its offensive in Ukraine . " <p> The 23 companies in the Top 100 based in Asia and Oceania recorded 5.7 percent arms revenue growth year-on-year , to reach $136 billion . The four South Korea-based companies recorded a combined 39% increase in arms revenues to reach $11.0 billion . The five companies in Japan saw combined arms revenues rise by 35 per cent to $10.0 billion . A policy of military build-up in Japan since 2022 drove a flurry of domestic orders , with some companies seeing the value of new orders increase more than 300 per cent . <p> " The sharp growth in arms revenues among South Korean and Japanese companies reflects the bigger picture of military build-ups in the region in response to heightened threat perceptions , " said Xiao Liang , a Researcher with the SIPRI Military Expenditure and Arms Production Programme . " South Korean firms are trying to expand their share of the global arms market , including demand in Europe related to the war in Ukraine . " <p> Six of the Top 100 arms companies were based in the Middle East and their combined arms revenues grew by 18 per cent to $19.6 billion . With the outbreak of war in Gaza , arms revenues of three companies in Israel in the Top 100 reached $13.6 billion . This is the highest figure ever recorded by Israeli companies in the SIPRI Top 100 . The three companies in T ? rkiye saw arms revenues grow by 24 per cent to $6 billion , benefiting from exports prompted by the war in Ukraine and from the Turkish government 's continued push towards self-reliance in arms production . <p> " The biggest Middle Eastern arms producers in the Top 100 saw arms revenues reach unprecedented heights in 2023 and growth looks set to continue , " said Dr Diego Lopes da Silva , Senior Researcher with the SIPRI Military Expenditure and Arms Production Programme . " In particular , as well as taking in record arms revenues in 2023 , Israeli arms producers are booking more orders as the war in Gaza rages on and spreads . "
