<p> Try a little experiment . Jump on the net , go to your social media , and start criticizing Israel 's genocide in Gaza . See what happens . In no time at all you 'll have ( pro ) Zionists hitting back at you with ; " Israel has the right to exist ! " , and " Israel has the right to defend itself ! " , and " You 're an antisemite ! " ( Yes , at some stage they will slap you with that battered , old , well-worn , overused A-card . ) They 're also going to hit you with ; " Jews are God 's chosen people " , " Israel is the Holy Land " , and " God gave that land to the Jews . " <p> In the preface of his book , Gaza : An Inquest into its Martyrdom , Prof. Norman Finkelstein -- arguably the leading authority in the world on the Israel-Palestine conflict -- writes ; " Gaza is about a Big Lie composed of a thousand little lies . The objective of this book is to refute that Big Lie by exposing each of the little lies . " <p> So let 's take a moment to interrogate those 3 BIG Zionist lies ... <h> 1 ) ISRAEL HAS THE RIGHT TO EXIST <p> Uhm , no , they do n't . Not according to international law . Look up something called the Balfour Declaration . Ever heard of it ? That 's when one nation -- Britain , took a country away from another nation -- the Palestinians , and gave it to a third nation -- the Jews . It started on 2 November 1917 , when British Foreign Secretary , Lord Arthur James Balfour , sent a letter on behalf of " his majesty " , King George V , to Lord Walter Rothschild , declaring ; " His Majesty 's Government view with favour the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people , and will use their best endeavours to facilitate the achievement of this object . " <p> Along with the Sykes-Picot " Agreement " of 1916 ( where France and Britain redrew the map of the Middle East ) , many historians see this declaration as a starting point for the Arab-Israeli conflict . <p> Question ... <h> WHO GAVE THEM THE RIGHT ? <p> Who gave " Great " Britain the right ... to take land away from one nation ... and give it to another ? Does any of that sound lawful to you ? Just because Israel is " recognized " by 163 of 193 UN member states , does n't make it legal . <p> In November this year , Former UN official , Moncef Khane wrote an article in Aljazeera where he asserted , " No state has an inherent ' right to exist ' , not even Israel . The notion that " Israel has the right to exist " is a statement so often asserted by mainly Western leaders and media that it appears to be correct . Conceptually or legally , no such natural or legal right exists . " That sentiment was echoed in articles by political analyst , Jeremy Hammond in 2019 and author , John Patrick Leary in January this year . <p> Yet , in December 2023 , US Congress passed a resolution " reaffirming Israel 's right to exist . " It also states that " denying Israel 's right to exist is a form of antisemitism " . And , lest we forget , Trump has filled up his cabinet almost entirely with Zionists. <h> 2 ) ISRAEL HAS THE RIGHT TO DEFEND ITSELF <p> You call slaughtering tens of thousands of mostly women and children ( 44k and counting ) in retaliation to an " attack " by Hamas -- that allegedly killed 1200 Israelis -- defending yourself ? Sounds like you 've got a f**ked up idea about self-defence , Zionist . Of course , you would n't need to " defend yourself " if you had n't caged the Palestinians like animals and brutalized them repeatedly over decades . Let 's face it , your position of " self-defence " has become ... indefensible . <p> Besides ... we 've now seen multiple reports from credible news outlets -- including Israeli media -- revealing that many of the Israeli citizens killed on October 7 were killed by IDF soldiers as part of the " Hannibal Directive " ( look it up ) . Including -- according to an Israeli police investigation -- numerous Israeli citizens at the Nova music festival allegedly gunned down by IDF combat helicopters . Also , despite those accusations of " mass rape " by Hamas and " burned bodies " being thoroughly debunked , Israel , the US and their Western lackeys and puppet media continue to push those lies . <h> EVERYONE -- EXCEPT ISRAEL AND ITS ALLIES -- CALL IT GENOCIDE <p> Let 's just call it for what it is . What Israel is doing in Gaza is not a " war " , it 's genocidal ethnic cleansing . <p> That 's not just me saying it ... <p> The ICC says it 's genocide . The ICJ says it 's genocide . The UN says it 's genocide . Amnesty says it 's genocide . The CCR(US) says it 's genocide . The Pope says it 's genocide . Most of the caring world ( Global South &amp; East ) says it 's genocide . But none of that matters . Know why ? Because America , birthplace of Mickey Mouse , along with Israel and the rest of their lapdog lackeys in the Western political establishment ... say it 's not . <h> 3 ) ANYONE WHO CRITICISES ISRAEL IS AN ANTI-SEMITE <p> Ah , yes the old A-card : Antisemite . I touched on it in a previous column . As we 've established , Israel was peopled by mostly WHITE Ashkenazi Jews from Europe , which means ... they are NOT actually Semites -- neither are their descendants . The TRUE semites are the brown-skinned Arabs and Palestinians in the Middle East . Ergo , one could argue , it is in fact the ( white ) , Zionist , Ashkenazi Jews from Europe who are the REAL antisemites -- demonstrated by the way they treat the TRUE Semites , the Palestinians and Arabs . <p> Fact is , you can be anti-Zionist and anti-IDF without being anti-Jew/Semite . You can even be anti-Israeli policies without being antisemitic . And no , criticising Netanyahu or Israel 's genocide in Gaza is NOT antisemitism . Heck , even an Israeli-born Jew says so . In an interview with Piers Morgan , bass guitarist and co-founder of rock band , KISS , Gene Simmons slapped down the antisemitic accusations levelled at Pink Floyd co-founder and activist , Roger Waters . <p> When Morgan pointed out that Roger Waters has been " coming out with a lot of very anti-Israel and ( what people perceive to be ) antisemitic comments " , Simmons responded with , " I 'm not sure they 're the same thing . " As far as he was concerned , " There is a difference between a political statement about Israel and antisemitism . " He added , " By the way , the definition of a Semite includes the Arab world . " <p> So do yourself a favour , do n't let Zionist apologists use those 3 big lies to guilt-trip you out of doing the right thing -- like standing up for the Palestinians , or speaking out against Israel 's war crimes in Gaza , Lebanon and , as of late , Syria . <p> ( God 's " chosen people " ... my ass ! ) <h> What say you , SA ? Does ( Zionist ) Israel have a right to exist , ' defend ' itself and call you ' antisemitic ' if you criticise its genocide in Gaza ? <p> Let us know by clicking on the comment tab below this article or by emailing info@thesouthafrican.com or sending a WhatsApp to 060 011 021 1 . You can also follow @TheSAnews on X and The South African on Facebook for the latest news .
