<h> What would Lennon , the conscience of rock ' n roll , sing about Gaza genocide ? <p> Former Beatle John Lennon arrives at the Times Square recording studio ' The Hit Factory ' before a recording session of his final album ' Double Fanasy ' in August 1980 in New York City , New York . ( Photo by Vinnie Zuffante/Getty Images ) <p> John Lennon was assassinated on 8 December 1980 . Did the conscience of rock n roll die on that day ? <p> Many believe Lennon was the greatest songwriter of all time . Lennon , more than any artist , had the ability to deeply touch the heart and mind simultaneously . Paul McCartney , many would say , had a melodic edge over Lennon , and Bob Dylan , others would say , had the lyrical edge over him . Lennon had a lyrical and musical genius combined that is perhaps not found to such a potent degree in any other artist . <p> From his early Beatle hits like Help , Strawberry Fields and All You Need is Love , Lennon could create magical music with poetic lyrics . As a solo artist , he wrote eternal classics dealing with issues of social justice -- Working Class Hero , Power to the People , The Luck of the Irish , Woman is the Nigger of the World , Give peace a Chance and Imagine . He took a stand . He was a versatile artist who wrote beautiful ballads like Love to rollicking rockers like Come Together . He enchanted listeners the world over with psychedelic gems such as Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds and I Am the Walrus . His art was always cutting edge . He was the first male artist to sing about his emotional vulnerability , fear and insecurity in songs like Help , Jealous Guy and Isolation . <p> He was the first artist to speak about the raw emotions of a child coming out of a broken home in Mother : " Mother you had me but I never had you , Father you left me but I never left you , I wanted you , you did n't want me " , that would later inspire other great artists such as Eddie Vedder to deal artistically with the same subject in Pearl Jams Alive . Lennon exuded authenticity and integrity . <p> A most gifted artist with a beautiful heart and a stimulating mind . He is no doubt the most popular anti-establishment artist . At the time in the 1960s when misogyny and patriarchy was systemic , Lennon resisted sexism both lyrically and in his lived experience . He was the first famous househusband who stayed at home , baked bread and took care of the kid while his wife went to work . He sincerely lived with his wife as an equal partner . He radically changed behavioural patterns in gender relations . He made it cool for men to live with their female partners as intellectual equals who respected each other . He challenged the sexualisation of women by capitalism and forced his audience , particularly men , to liberate their minds , dignify their female partners and respect the intellect and creativity of women . <p> Lennon despised racism . He worked with social justice leaders such as Abbie Hoffman and Tariq Ali . Even in this most personal and intimate relationship , he politically challenged racial stereotypes and mainstream constructs of physical beauty . Instead of having the stereotyped blue-eyed blond as a trophy partner , he would publicly appear with Yoko Ono in public places where she was given the space to articulate her thoughts and ideas . Often , he was told by media houses that they wanted to interview him alone without Yoko but Lennon would decline such requests . <p> Lennon was ideologically anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist . At the time in the 1960s when artists were forbidden from speaking out politically , he insisted on speaking out against the Vietnam War . Give Peace a Chance was an anthem against the American war in Vietnam . <p> Today , we have the Gaza genocide -- but most popular artists and celebrities are silent . Silent in the midst of genocide amounts to complicity . The Gaza genocide has exposed their racism and hypocrisy . After 7 October , Bono referred to Israelies as " our kind of people " but well a year into the Gaza genocide and 45 000 dead Palestinians , mainly women and children , he does not see the Palestinians as " our kind of people " or " people " . <p> The silence of rock ' n roll 's aristocracy Bob Dylan , Neil Young and Bruce Springsteen has embarrassed conscientious rockers the world over . Dylan sang in Blowin ' in the Wind : " How many years can some people exist before they 're allowed to be free . " Palestinians are singing this song back to Dylan and the world . They have been Occupied for more than 75 years and been struggling for self-determination . Dylan sang : " How many deaths will it take till he knows too many people have died ? " <p> Is about 50 000 deaths of Palestinians not enough for Dylan and others to speak out against the genocide ? Dylan is being called out for his silence on genocide and his apparent support for the Zionist regime . Dylan wrote Neighbourhood Bully , a pro-Israeli song that Israeli newspaper Haaretz described as " rare declaration of full throated support by a mainstream American rocker " . Journalist Gabe Friedman said : " Some of the lyrics sound like they could have been taken from a speech by Benjamin Netanyahu . " <p> And the Boss , Bruce Springsteen , who is presented as the modern day working class hero , has also been silent about the genocide and the systematic starvation of the poor and working class people in Gaza . Neil Young 's silence has been bewildering considering that he made an entire album , Living With War , against the Iraq war . The Palestine solidarity protests on the encampments throughout American universities have been consistently singing Neil Young 's Ohio : " Soldiers are cutting us down , should have been gone long ago . " <p> Lennon had the intuitive inclination to side with the underdog and the freedom fighters whom the establishment labelled as " terrorists " . Consider these lyrics from the Luck of the Irish that are so poignant when we think of Gaza today . " Why the hell are the English there anyway ? As they kill with God on their side , blame it all on the kids and the IRA as the bastards commit genocide . " <p> There are a few artists who have followed suit like the great singer-songwriter Roger Waters of Pink Floyd and the guitar maestro Eric " slow hand " Clapton who wrote a song for the children of Palestine , Voice of a Child , " with haunting lyrics : " Tell me where might find you underneath the stone . " Clapton had a Palestinian flag painted on his fender guitar and played a medical aid benefit concert for Gaza . Clapton knows personally the trauma of losing a child ; he lost his son Connor and wrote the song Tears in Heaven . <p> In these dark days when all of the world 's powers , political and financial , military and diplomatic , celebrities and stars are complicit in the genocide in Gaza , Lennon 's words give us hope against all odds : " There 's nothing you can do that ca n't be done , All you need is love , Love is all you need . " <p> Love is the force that inspires solidarity with the Palestinian struggle for self-determination . <p> Iqbal Suleman is a social justice lawyer and former head of the law clinic Lawyers for Human Rights in Pretoria and a research associate at Media Review Network . <p> To provide the best experiences , we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information . Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site . Not consenting or withdrawing consent , may adversely affect certain features and functions . <p> FunctionalFunctional Always active <p> The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user , or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network . <p> PreferencesPreferences <p> The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user . <p> StatisticsStatistics <p> The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes . Without a subpoena , voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider , or additional records from a third party , information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone can not usually be used to identify you . <p> MarketingMarketing <p> The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising , or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes .
