<h> Chuck Stephens : Is democracy breaking out in the Middle East ? <p> Israel 's actions against Hezbollah have shifted the Middle East landscape , leading to the fall of Syria 's Assad regime . With Syria 's rebels seizing opportunity , questions emerge : will democracy prevail , or will regional tensions -- including Kurdish self-determination -- reshape Syria 's future ? <p> Sign up for your early morning brew of the BizNews Insider to keep you up to speed with the content that matters . The newsletter will land in your inbox at 5:30am weekdays . Register here . <p> The seventh BizNews Conference , BNC#7 , is to be held in Hermanus from March 11 to 13 , 2025 . The 2025 BizNews Conference is designed to provide an excellent opportunity for members of the BizNews community to interact directly with the keynote speakers , old ( and new ) friends from previous BNC events -- and to interact with members of the BizNews team . Register for BNC#7 here . <p> By Chuck Stephens* <p> Quo Vadis Syria ? <p> What has brought about the end of the Assad era ? <p> Rebellion , yes , of course . But after a decade or more of stalemate in Syria 's civil war , why now ? <p> It 's because Israel create the conditions for this turn-over . The IDF severely weakened Hezbollah . First it used targeted bombs to take out Hezbollah leaders and then it entered Lebanon and enforced the UN Resolution that says Hezbollah must stay north of the Litani River . Hezbollah had violated this UN resolution . After its long and difficult campaign to take out all Hamas battalions in Gaza , Israel turned its attention to Hezbollah . <p> In principle , Lebanon is a democratic country . It holds elections . However , for a decade or more Hezbollah 's military presence in Lebanon has been larger and stronger that Lebanon 's own military . So it ruled the roost and Israel has talked of " liberating " Lebanon with its intervention . <p> The truth is that when Hezbollah was strong and threatening Israel 's northern frontier , it was also Assad 's protector . It deployed forces in Syria as well as Lebanon . Syria was key to the delivery of fighter and munitions to Lebanon . <p> Ironically , in the aftermath of its severe weakening in Lebanon , Hezbollah did not come to Assad 's defense . It withdrew into Lebanon , leaving Assad to run away . The rebels , backed by Turkey , saw the opportunity and seized it . <p> The question now is whether Syria has just traded one dictator for another ? Or will genuine elections now be possible , allowing this multiracial state its right to self-determination ? <p> The multi-racial mix includes Turks , Arabs and Kurds . Syria is divided by the Euphrates River , flowing down from the mountains in Turkey . It flows on into Iraq and thence to the Arabian Gulf . Like Israel , Syria has been ruled by many empires over the centuries . The Persians ruled it ( Iran ) before the Greeks ( Alexander the Great conquered it ) . Then the Romans conquered it and it became a Byzantine province . After the rise of Islam , it was ruled by various Muslim empires . <p> Perhaps the most famous of them all was Saladin ? He who fought Richard the Lionheart in the Third Crusade . It should be noted here that Saladin was a Kurd , born in Tikrit . That is now in the north of Iraq . Suddam Hussein was also born there . He who wreaked havoc among the Kurds . But I digress . Saladin ruled from Damascus . By the time King Richard I arrived , Saladin had taken back the Crusader enclaves of Acre and Jaffa . Relentless Richard re-conquered these two cities , but failed to win Jerusalem . So there were peace talks . <p> Saladin held on to Jerusalem but he did allow unarmed Christian pilgrims to worship in Jerusalem . <p> I have a hunch that with the ascendancy of Donald Trump , Turkey will advise the rebels to be magnanimous . Turkey is a secular state , in principle . That may be the model for Syria ? The Ottoman Turks were the last empire to rule Syria . <p> However , the prospect of an autonomous Kurdestan is also rising . Both George Bush I and his son George W Bush failed to secure for the Kurds a sustainable space for their security . The rub is that there are many Kurds in south-east Turkey as well . Turkey regards this as a threat and has therefore occupied a buffer zone along its border with Syria . <p> However , Syria east of the Euphrates will incline towards Kurdish self-determination . Could this lead to a split ? Those who promote a two-state solution for Israel will ironically oppose this same solution for Syria . But the Kurds are already ruling much of east Syria . Even on the west bank of the Euphrates . Expect them to pull back a bit , hunker down , and adopt hit-and-run tactics against the Turkish occupation . <p> These two noble goals will clash . Democratization and a space for Kurdish self-rule . <p> Kurdestan not only takes in eastern Syria and some of south-eastern Turkey , but northern Iraq and a province in the north or Iran too . It will be tricky to consolidate , but Iran may have to trade off some space for the Kurds , in order to survive the severe downturn in its fortunes . Hamas is down for the count . Hezbollah is destabilized and shrinking . Assad has fled . The Houthis are a pariah among the nations . <p> Moderate Muslims will rise up , sensing the weakening of radical Islam . Donald Trump will bring back the Abraham Accords . He who favoured moving the US embassy to Jerusalem . He who recognized the Golan Heights as part of Israel . He who favours the annexation of Judea and Samaria ( known in UN parlance as the " West Bank " ) . He will be hard on Hamas if they do n't give up their American hostages before 20 January 2025 . <p> All in all , the State of Israel project has long been regarded as a beach head for Democracy in the Middle East . A region of autocracies . The trending seems to be heading that way . Sudden changes in Syria could be a harbinger of change . The region deserves an end to perpetual war and the return of peace and prosperity as it enjoyed in centuries past . To get this benefit , it may have to give up its cherished penchant for autocracy .
