<p> I have a personal message for Bibi -- if you 're listening . You do n't mind if I call you Bibi , do you ? I ca n't call you Prime Minister , because you 're apparently " illigitimate . " And I ca n't call you Netanyahu , because that 's not your real name . Your original surname is Mileikowsky , and you 're of white , Polish and Ashkenazi descent . Which , btw , means you 're not , strictly speaking ... a Semite . <p> Look , I get it , Bibi ( and all you Zionist Christian Israel apologists out there ) . I used to be you . You see , I grew up in a Zionist Christian country -- called apartheid South Africa . Where , since childhood , I had 3 things shoved down my throat : 1 ) the bible ( and , by extension , Christianity ) , 2 ) racism , and 3 ) the holocaust . Central to at least two of those things ... is Israel . <h> ISRAEL : HOLY OF HOLIES <p> As I touched on in my last column , I too was raised to believe that Israel was the Holy Land -- the birth and death place of one baby Jeeziz -- and the Jews were " God 's chosen people " ... " apple of God 's eye " . At the same time , I was being told that it was those ( " swarthy " , brown-skinned ) Arabs and Palestinians who were the real troublemakers in the Middle East . Just like those IRA " terrorists " in Ireland . And I was being told all of that ( as I 've mentioned before ) by the same people telling me Nelson Mandela was a terrorist . Look how thatturned out ! <h> EXODUS TO ENTEBBE , MUNICH TO MASADA , MADE ME LOVE ISRAEL <p> But it was n't just Christianity and the bible that brainwashed me into believing the Jews were some kinda divine ? bermensch , it was also certain great movies . Like Exodus , about the founding of Israel -- with that emotive score . Sword of Gideon ( remade as Munich ) , about Israel 's revenge operation on the Black September " terrorists " who killed 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972 Olympics . Or , biblical movies like Ben Hur , Samson and Delilah , and that grand mini-series , Masada . Not to mention all those heroic Entebbe films about Operation Thunderbolt . As a ten-year-old , it was breathtakingly exciting and inspiring to watch the IDF task force swoop in and rescue those Israeli hostages from the PFLP " terrorists " -- being harboured by that " despotic tyrant " , Idi Amien . <p> I never knew , Bibi , until just a few years ago , that the only Israeli soldier killed in that Entebbe rescue op ... was your brother . My sincere condolences to you and your family for your loss . From what I understand , losing your brother is what motivated you to go into politics and become the great leader you almost were . <p> But Bibi , bubby ... the women and children you 're slaughtering wholesale in Gaza had nothing to do with your brother 's death ... and wo n't bring him back . <h> IF HAMAS ARE TERRORISTS , WHY DID BIBI PROP THEM UP ? <p> Bibi calls Hamas " terrorists " , but , as Prof Finkelstein has repeatedly pointed out , it is LEGAL under international law to take up arms against your attacker or oppressor and defend yourselves from death or subjugation . Actually , some would argue it 's practically your duty . That was true for the ANC under apartheid , and it 's true for Hamas , today . This makes what Hamas did on October 7th LEGALLY justified ... under international law . <p> Did you know ... that Benjamin Netanyahu secretly propped up and funded Hamas ? That 's a fact ... and a bewildering one , do n't you think ? That 's a biggie . Yes , the guy who 's killing tens of thousands of Palestinians in his hunt for Hamas is also their enabler . Why did Bibi support Hamas ? Officially , according to Khaled Elgindy , Director of Program at the Middle East Institute in Washington , it was because " Hamas became useful to Netanyahu as a way to ensure that a cohesive Palestinian leadership did not emerge , and therefore there could n't be a Palestinian state . " <p> Unofficially , one could argue that it was to create a boogeyman in the region in Hamas , that Bibi could blame and target to justify the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians and dismiss it as collateral damage in the war against Hamas . And , of course , it detracts from his corruption charges . <h> DID BIBI CATCH SAMSON SICKNESS -- AND INFECT BIDEN ? <p> Some analysts out there are saying Bibi has been struck with Samson Syndrome . He knows once the " war " in Gaza ends , he will most likely be prosecuted and jailed for corruption . Which is why he 's behaving like Samson in the bible ; if Bibi is going down , he 's hellbent on taking the whole , damn , heretical temple with him . ( In case you 're confused by that metaphor , Bibi is Samson , and the temple is Israel -- and the Middle East ) . He 's already toppled Gaza , Lebanon and Syria -- backed by US/NATO . <p> And now it looks like senile , sleepy Joe Biden has also been infected by Samson sickness . Yes , Bibi must 've sneezed on Biden or something , because ... in the last few weeks alone , we 've seen Biden -- who has probably gone full-blown dementia by now -- give Zelensky a green light to use those previously banned long-range missiles to strike deep inside Russia . Something Putin warned would be an outright declaration of war . Which means Russia and NATO could soon ostensibly be in a hot war . <p> That 's not all Biden did . He recently joined Netanyahu and Erdogan in overthrowing Syria and ousting Assad -- through a proxy army made up of ISIS and AQ-affiliated extremists . Yes , you read that right . The terrorists who attacked the US on 9/11 , and the head-chopping jihadists who terrorized the Middle East since 2016 , just took control of Damascus -- with support from the US , Israel and Turkey . Let that sink in . <h> DID BIDEN JUST HAND TRUMP A NEW ( WORLD ) WAR ? <p> It would appear that the Dems , obviously insanely jealous over Trump 's ( second ) win , have decided to take a giant dump in Big Don 's presidential punch bowl ... by leaving him with a nice new ( world ) war .... on their way out the door . Between Russia , China , Gaza , Lebanon , Syria and Iran , the Dems are prepared to risk WW3 as they leave office , just to sabotage Trump . <p> And now that pro-Zionist Trump and his Israel Firstcabinet have been elected , you can be sure Bedlam Bibi is rubbing his hands and drooling with blood-thirsty glee . He knows damn well that if Israel goes to war with Iran , Big Don will have his back . And if Trump backs Israel in a war on Iran , you can be sure that his substantial , fanatical , evangelical , Christian Zionist voter base will cheerlead him , all the way . <p> Maybe Galloway is right ; Trump is already betraying his base . Selling them out -- for Israel . People voted for Trump , again , because they saw him as the lesser of two evils , a case of better the devil you know . Problem is , that still leaves you with an evil devil ... and hell is waiting . <p> Let 's just hope that Trump does n't also get infected by Samson Syndrome . <h> What say you , SA ? Will Biden , Trump and Bibi collectively drag us all down with them into WW3 ? <p> Let us know by clicking on the comment tab below this article or by emailing info@thesouthafrican.com or sending a WhatsApp to 060 011 021 1 . You can also follow @TheSAnews on X and The South African on Facebook for the latest news .
