<h> OPINION <h> A Christmas controversy <p> Andrew Donaldson <p> 11 December 2024 <p> Andrew Donaldson writes on the hullabaloo in the UK over Band Aid 's " Do They Know It 's Christmas ? " song <p> A FAMOUS GROUSE <p> I HAVE been keeping an eye on the official UK pop charts . As expected at this time of the year , they 're littered with what can be described as " holiday hits " both old and new , and the latest top 100 singles chart ( December 6 to 12 ) fairly heaves with twinkly chestnuts that would drive one mad in other months . <p> Most are anodyne and cloyingly sentimental , rich in cheesiness , but hardy perennials all the same . At number two , for example , there 's Wham 's Last Christmas , which was first released in 1984 . Mariah Carey 's All I Want for Christmas is You , released in 1994 , is at number five . Brenda Lee 's Rockin ' Around the Christmas Tree , at number six , dates back to 1958 . Jingle Bell Rock , by Bobby Helms , released in 1957 , is at number ten . The only ( relative ) newcomer in the top ten , at number nine is Ed Sheeran and Elton John 's Merry Christmas , which first topped the charts in 2021 . <p> Somewhat more gritty is the bittersweet Fairy Tale of New York ( 13 ) , a glorious blend of drunken folk and punk dissolution by the Pogues and the late Kirsty McColl . One of Britain 's all-time favourite Christmas songs , it was first released in 1987 , when it reached number two , and has been a Top 40 hit every year since 2005 . Controversially , the song has been censored by a number of broadcasters who have edited out or bleeped over the words " slut " , " faggot " and " arse " in its lyrics . <p> In 2019 , one BBC radio presenter , Greg Dyke , declared that he would refuse to play the song on his show and described it on Twitter as an " offensive pile of downmarket chav bilge " . He added , " I think Christmas songs should be about excited children , toys , Christmas trees , snowy streets , ski lodges , reindeer , wrapping paper , Santa , family , peace on earth and love . I just find The Pogues ' Fairytale of New York a nasty , nasty song . " <p> --&gt; <p> Which brings us , conveniently , to another perennial controversy , Band Aid 's Do They Know It 's Christmas ? The song was inspired by the BBC 's coverage of the 1984 famine in Ethiopia . Michael Burke 's reporting so moved Boomtown Rats singer Bob Geldof that he contacted another musician , Ultravox 's Midge Ure , with a view to writing a song to raise money for famine relief . The song was recorded by 37 of the 80s ' top hitmakers , including Sting , George Michael , Paul Weller , Paul Young , Duran Duran and Culture Club , among others . It was released on 3 December , 1984 , and entered the UK singles chart at number one , where it remained for five weeks . <p> Three remixed " sequels " claimed the top spot again in 1989 , 2004 and 2014 . A fourth version , released late last month , has alas not fared as well , entering the charts at 79 , then moving to 45 , and it 's now sitting at a respectable number eight . <p> The song has attracted its fair share of grumbling over the years , but the criticism appears to have grown more pronounced in the past fortnight . There have been charges that it smacks of " white saviourism " , that its message , though well-intended , is outdated and has done Africans more harm than good . <p> One moan that strikes me as particularly fatuous is the claim that Ethiopia is the world 's oldest Christian nation and , as such , " they " are of course well aware that it is Christmas . ( Actually , it 's the second-oldest Christian nation , Armenia being the oldest . But let 's not split hairs . ) <p> --&gt; <p> Consider , instead , that the 1983-1985 Ethiopian famine took place a decade into a civil war which lasted from September 1974 to May 1991 . The conflict left 1.4 million dead . At least a million of those deaths were directly as a result of the famine . Aid agencies and human rights organisations have said that more than half of those casualties were due to human rights abuses which caused the famine , as one study put it , " to come earlier , strike harder and extend further than would otherwise have been the case " . <p> The hardest hit regions , just coincidentally , were areas of long-standing rebellion against the Derg , the Marxist-Leninist military junta that had ruled the country since 1974 coup that overthrew Haile Selassie 's imperial rule . Not to be too cynical here , but using famine as a weapon of war is not especially Christian , is it ? <p> Geldof , meanwhile , has vigorously defended the legacy of Do They Know It 's Christmas ? He told the UK Sunday Times , " This little pop song has kept millions of people alive . Why would Band Aid scrap feeding thousands of children dependent on us for a meal ? Why not keep doing that ? Because of an abstract wealthy-world argument , regardless of its legitimacy ? <p> " No abstract theory regardless of how sincerely held should impede or distract from that hideous , concrete real-world reality . There are 600 million hungry people in the world -- 300 million are in Africa . We wish it were other but it is not . We can help some of them . That 's what we will continue to do . " <p> --&gt; <p> There is some " legitimacy " , if I may , in criticism of the song . The clunky lyrics , for example . In the 2014 remix , for example , the climactic line , " Well tonight thank God it 's them instead of you " , was changed to " Well tonight we 're reaching out and touching you . " For some weird reason , both lines are included in the 2024 version . <p> Co-writer Ure concedes the song is not a great composition . It has no chorus , he told the Sunday Times , and its structure is bizarre . That said , he has no time for its critics . A constant moan , for example , concerns the fact that it actually does snow in Africa . Geldof was well aware of this , Ure says , but his original lyric , " There wo n't be snow in Ethiopia this Christmas time " , was changed because it had too many syllables . <p> " And it 's a pop song , " Ure adds . " We have lines there because they rhyme , not because they make sense . There are many keyboard warriors out there , and in the time it takes them to write a scathing remark some child has died . They talk while we actually do something . All those stars turned up on that Sunday morning with hangovers , but were there for a reason . Although it 's also possible that they were just scared of Bob . " <p> One such warrior , perhaps , is the British-Ghanaian rapper , Fuse ODG . He has argued that charity initiatives like Band Aid may generate sympathy and donations but they also perpetuate damaging stereotypes that stifle the continent 's economic growth , tourism and investment , ultimately destroying Africa 's dignity , pride and identity . Writing in the Guardian , he said : <p> --&gt; <p> " Many Africans , in the diaspora and on the continent , have long felt that the portrayal of Africa by Band Aid is not just inaccurate but damaging . While the British public 's generosity in 1984 was genuine , and the aim of Band Aid was to address a specific humanitarian crisis , the way it depicted Africa did more long-termharm than good . It inadvertently contributed to a broader identity crisis for Africans , portraying the entire continent as one monolithic , war-torn , starving place . It 's like taking the Ukraine crisis and generalising it to all of Europe . " <p> Fuse ( if that 's what he wants to be called ) touches on a pertinent issue here . But , whatever its faults , pop music is not to blame for the continent 's " identity crisis " . Africa is usually portrayed in Western media as a monolith , a single country even . That 's , of course , when events in Africa make it on the news agenda . <p> Last week , for instance , I tuned into a podcast discussion on the flurry of president-elect Donald Trump 's meetings with foreign leaders , regarded by many observers as highly irregular and perhaps a contravention of US law , considering he has yet to take office . One participant remarked , rather disparagingly , " And where is Joe Biden in all this ? In Africa . " As if Biden had no business there . <p> But where in Africa exactly ? There was no further mention of Biden 's whereabouts , so I had to look it up . It turned out he was in Luanda , engaged in trade and investment talks with his Angolan counterpart , Jo ? o Louren ? o . This was the first ever trip by a US president to Angola and was seen by some as the most direct American counter yet to Chinese influence in Africa . But this was n't worthy of much attention in the press here . <p> True , there are more dramatic events elsewhere . Like the world 's worst humanitarian crisis . This is in Sudan , not that many may be aware of that . Its ongoing civil war seldom makes the evening news . The seeming indifference to its barbarism infuriates campaigners like Geldof . <p> " Rage , " he explained in his interview with the Sunday Times , " is my animus . " Which is perhaps understandable . His Band Aid Trust , he reveals , is flooded with daily accounts of atrocities in the region . <p> " We were sent in reports from contacts in Sudan about the thuggish warring groups rampaging the country . Brutes entered a town three weeks ago , lined up all males over ten and killed them . They took a newborn and killed it ; they drowned a toddler . Then the rape began . Nine months ago , in northern Ethiopia , a number of schools we built got taken out by either a militia or the Eritrean army . They forced male students to rape female members of their family . <p> " Look -- I 'm painting a reality . So in Sudan yesterday we gave hundreds of thousands of pounds to 8 000 children and the exhausted women who made it across the border into Chad . Would you like to stop that ? Or , knowing you ca n't , at least make a gesture of disgust by giving to Band Aid , so somebody can take care of these people ? " <p> Late last month , the BBC finally made it to Sudan -- much to the gratitude of Tom Fletcher , the UN 's new humanitarian affairs and emergency relief boss . He 'd chosen the country as his first " field mission " , rather than the conflicts in Gaza and Ukraine . Media attention on what he termed an " invisible crisis " was certainly welcome . " Twenty-five million Sudanese , more than half the country , need help now , " he added . <p> It may sound trite , but as debut missions go , this certainly was a dive into the deep end . As the Beeb 's world-weary Lyse Doucet put it , " Nowhere else on Earth are so many children on the run , so many people living with such acute hunger . " <p> The exact size of the country 's orphan population is not known , but more than 5.8 million children have been displaced in the fighting between rival factions of the military government . About half of these children are under the age of five . More than 16 million children face severe food shortages , and child hunger levels have almost doubled in the last six months . <p> Fletcher 's trip did fulfil part of its purpose in that some accounts of massacres , mass rapes and frenzied looting did appear on news sites ... but then Syria happened . With the toppling of Bashar al-Assad 's repressive regime , attention immediately shifted from Darfur to Damascus . After its brief turn in the media spotlight , the war in Sudan is invisible once more . <p> One could argue that this suits the agenda of Band Aid 's critics . Fuse , for example , would rather the continent is seen as " a hub of groundbreaking advancements , from the rise of African artists dominating international music charts to innovative tech solutions transforming industries " . A different sort of monolith , in other words . <p> And with that in mind , he has released his own charity single , We Know It 's Christmas . He has described it as an Afrobeats alternative to Band Aid and a " step toward reclaiming our narratives " , adding , " I hope that in decades to come , Africans will provide the primary solutions to our own challenges . But when short-term humanitarian fundraising is needed , it should be approached with dignity , led by Africans , and with thoughtful consideration for its long-term impacts . " <p> Fair enough , but I wonder what they make of that in Darfur . <p> A Christmas k ? rel <p> For as long as many of the regulars can remember , an elderly guy would drop by the Slaughtered Lamb ( " Finest Ales &amp; Pies " ) once a year -- on Christmas Eve . Each time he 'd line up three single malts , mutter a few words to himself , then toss them back in quick succession before leaving in silence . <p> After a number of years , the barmaid questioned him about his annual ritual . What gives with downing three shots practically at once and then bolting for the door ? Why not order one at a time , sip it slowly and when that was done order another ? Would that not be more convivial ? <p> The guy explained that it was a family thing ; he had a brother in Cape Town and another in Sydney . They had n't seen each other in years , but every Christmas Eve they would toast each other with shots of whisky . <p> Last Christmas Eve , though , the guy strolled into the Lamb and ordered not three , but two shots of whisky . These he did not swiftly toss back as he usually did , but drank slowly and with apparent great reluctance . This so alarmed the barmaid that she had to inquire , rather fearfully , if something had perhaps happened to one of his brothers . " Oh no , " he replied , " they 're all fine , healthy as ever . " Good to hear , she said , but why only two whiskies and not three ? <p> " Well , " he said , " I 've stopped drinking ... " <p> Season 's greetings <p> There are those who claim , oddly , that there is a war on the festive season , and that the so-called woke have banned the term " Merry Christmas " . This is of course nonsense , intended to annoy others . But have no fear . Santa is watching these miscreants . ( He knows who they are . ) As for me , I 'm taking a break and will back in January . Stay safe , you guys , and all the best over the holidays .
