<h> OPINION <h> 2024 : Annus Incredibilis <p> There will be sighs of relief as Old Man Time , circa 2024 , indulges in some final festive season partying before staggering into New Year oblivion . <p> The past 12 months have been what the late Queen Elizabeth II -- pained by her own memorably awful annus horribilis -- might have called an annus incredibilis : a year of the incredible , the inconceivable . What so many leaders and establishment analysts patronisingly assured us could n't , should n't , and would n't happen in fact could , would and did . Conventional wisdom was repeatedly and spectacularly proven wrong worldwide , falling flat on its infuriatingly smug face . This is , I can not deny , a phenomenon that fills with glee the anarchist who lives deep within the heart of every journalist . <p> There are three standout events that will most affect the way in which the South African story unfolds in the coming year . In May , after three solid decades , the " liberation dividend " stopped paying and the African National Congress 's electoral support collapsed . A month later , over the course of 90 humiliating minutes , President Joe Biden 's debate with Donald Trump unravelled years of painstakingly woven establishment lies about Biden 's mental acuity . Finally , in the past fortnight , a Syrian regime that had lasted 50 years and seemed unassailable , collapsed in just days with barely a shot fired . <p> On the southern tip of the continent , what a reality check it has been for President Cyril Ramaphosa . At the beginning of 2024 , everything seemed to be going swimmingly , both locally and abroad . <p> At home , the painful years of rolling Eskom blackouts had ended , the opposition was squabbling and divided , and everyone agreed that a comic , shambolic , newly-founded political party led by a criminal geriatric , which had cheekily appropriated the umKhonto weSizwe ( MK ) name of the ANC 's armed wing , was absolutely no threat at all . <p> --&gt; <p> As it turned out , the general election was disastrous for the ANC . The MK party destroyed the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal and savaged it elsewhere , driving Ramaphosa into a de facto alliance with the despised Democratic Alliance and an inconsequential gaggle of other centrist parties . The ANC enters 2025 closer to a split , the avoidance of which has been the defining motif of Ramaphosa 's leadership , than ever in its history . <p> Abroad , Ramaphosa bestrode the international stage , thumbing his nose at a Western bloc diminished in confidence and influence . He had driven the expansion of BRICS to include Iran and others , and had encouraged BRICS to act more forcefully as a counterweight to Western " hegemony " and " neo-colonialism " , earning accolades from Russia 's Vladimir Putin for his " unique diplomatic mastery " . <p> As the self-anointed standard bearer of the Global South and the Palestinians , he had bloodied Israel 's nose by getting the International Court of Justice to countenance his claims of genocide in Gaza . He was credibly demanding a ( South ) African seat on the United Nations Security Council , had modestly offered to end the war in Ukraine , and was confidently looking to harvest more reputational kudos when South Africa rotated into the presidency of the G20 bloc . <p> Then came the reversals . The abrupt upending of long-held orthodoxies has left the world in turmoil and has made South Africa 's warm embrace of hard-left alliances with Russia and Iran -- as well as the terror groups Hamas and Hezbollah -- looking at best unwise and , at worst , potentially disastrous to our long-term interests . <p> --&gt; <p> In the United States , the Democrats ' comforting notion of " demographics are destiny " proved illusory . The idea that the party would for the foreseeable future dominate electorally because of a natural , progressive alliance -- black , Latino and Asian American voters , along with the youth vote and university-educated women -- was comprehensively debunked . Instead , courtesy of all those groups and against every conceivable impediment , including himself , Donald Trump achieved a solid victory , winning not only the electoral college and the popular vote , but the Senate and the House , too . <p> In the European Union ( EU ) there was a similar , albeit less unexpected move to the right , mainly in response to uncontrolled migration . The European Parliament for the first time came under the control of a conservative bloc . Centre-right or hard-right parties took power in Austria , Portugal and the Netherlands and made substantial progress elsewhere , including in Denmark and in the EU 's two most powerful nations , France and Germany . <p> There 's a seismic change taking place in the West . The often cited but rarely seen " silent majority " seems to be emerging from a decades-long slumber and , much to the mainstream media 's consternation , they 're proving to be young , multi-ethnic , working- and middle-class , and largely indifferent to the virtue-signalling issues that obsess especially the Anglophone elites . It 's a development that threatens to leave in tatters much of the progressive agenda that has dominated the US and hence world discourse for the past dozen or so years . <p> The apparent exceptions to these trends were Ireland and the United Kingdom , both of which , as expected , elected vaguely left-leaning governments . One has a sense , though , that the same waves of change , albeit delayed , are already lapping at both those island shores . Who , watching Sir Keir Starmer 's government floundering in the weeds despite Labour 's evisceration of the Tories a few months earlier , would feel confident in predicting his administration 's survival for a full five-year term , were it actually to implement the policies upon which it was elected ? <p> --&gt; <p> It 's the Middle East upheaval , however , that has most dramatically upset the board , not only for the major players but also for fringe participants like South Africa . <p> South Africa 's foreign policy , dressed up as " non-alignment " and " multi-polarity " , had swung particularly noticeably under the Ramaphosa administration into backing Russia and Iran against the West and Israel , and supporting Syria in world forums . However , the speed with which the ANC 's fraternal revolutionary allies have gone up in smoke , literally , may leave Ramaphosa back-peddling . <p> The collapse of the Syrian regime has diminished the power and stature of Russia . When push came to shove , Putin was shown to lack the appetite ( and the utensils ) to fight hard on two fronts . This much improves Ukraine 's hopes of a moderately acceptable end to a war that until a few weeks ago it was poised to lose . At the same time , the now obvious limits to the Russian bear 's bite will presumably put a stop , at least for a while , to Putin 's ambitions for subversion and recolonisation in the former Soviet bloc countries . <p> The Syrian collapse has also crippled Iran 's " axis of resistance " , which stretched via anti-Western and anti-Israeli terror proxies from Yemen through Syria and into Lebanon and Gaza . It spectacularly vindicates Israel 's determination , against a deluge of international condemnation and resistance , to root out Hamas in Gaza and then riskily to extend itself against Hezbollah in Lebanon . Neither of these groups will soon recover , which significantly improves the prospects for a broader Middle East peace settlement along the template of the neglected Abraham Accords that Trump negotiated in his first term . <p> --&gt; <p> Of course , none of these scenarios might come about . There 's nothing to say that one annus incredibilis can not be followed by another . <p> Ramaphosa 's unity government is precarious and vulnerable to the determined efforts of his tripartite allies and powerful party comrades to wreck it . The consequences of this happening would be disastrous for South Africa . <p> And a world already in flux may melt down further . Multinational institutions that are already shaky might collapse . <p> Putin could double down on his bellicose international gambles in order to consolidate his domestic position . Israel 's attempts at a cordon sanitaire in Syria and the temptation to finish Hezbollah might goad the new , avowedly reformist , Syrian government into full jihadist mode . Turkey , which coincidentally was earlier this year offered BRICS membership , has dared to stare down Russia and Iran , showing that it is determined to play its own , bold game in international affairs . Finally , there 's the US , which under the most transactional and temperamentally volatile leader since -- well , since 2016-2020 -- adds its own dollops of unpredictability into the equation . <p> The world in general and South Africa and Ramaphosa specifically face a turbulent 2025.
