<p> Sign up for your early morning brew of the BizNews Insider to keep you up to speed with the content that matters . The newsletter will land in your inbox at 5:30am weekdays . Register here . <p> The seventh BizNews Conference , BNC#7 , is to be held in Hermanus from March 11 to 13 , 2025 . The 2025 BizNews Conference is designed to provide an excellent opportunity for members of the BizNews community to interact directly with the keynote speakers , old ( and new ) friends from previous BNC events -- and to interact with members of the BizNews team . Register for BNC#7 here . <p> By Jonathan Katzenellenbogen* <p> The fall of the Assad regime in Syria after more than 50 years in power marks a dramatic shift in the balance of power in the region . <p> Russia and Iran are the losers , but , as yet , the clear winners remain uncertain , with Syria divided and multiple foreign forces on its land . The new rulers , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , have been part of the Islamic State , yet are backed by Turkey , which has previously described them as terrorists . <p> The defeat of Hamas and particularly Hezbollah , provided an ideal opportunity for HTS to launch a full attack on Assad 's forces . Hezbollah was defeated and could no longer rush to Assad 's aid . And Russia , already overstretched in Ukraine , did not have the resources to spare to defend one of their closest allies . Iran could not do much with its offensive capability weakened by the Israeli strikes and its proxy Hezobollah on its knees . <p> Both Russia and Iran have suffered an immense loss of international prestige and their military capabilities have been shown to be overrated . And now their governments in the face of economic problems could be running scared about popular uprisings . <p> While South Africa is not a significant player in the region , it is firmly on the side of the losers . It has been a good friend of Russia and Iran , and protected the Syrians in the United Nations against accusations of torture and mass killings . Assad 's overthrow throws a light on South Africa 's allegiances to one of the world 's most evil dictators and his friends . <p> When President Donald Trump is inaugurated in a month 's time , he will have been handed a new reality in the Middle East , and a strong US hand . <p> Assad was heavily backed by Iran and Russia , and it 's highly unlikely that Syria 's new rulers will allow them to play large roles . Iran and its Axis of Resistance - Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis and others - have been fundamentally weakened . Iran can no longer use Syria as a conduit to supply weapons to allow Hezbollah to rebuild . And Russia without its Syrian bases will not have much of a role . <h> Pressure <p> As Israel is close to victory and with the senior political and military leadership of Hamas and Hezobollah dead , the changes in Syria bring pressure on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to come up with a day-after vision . What are Israel 's plans for Gaza and Lebanon now that Iran does not have the leeway to run its proxies ? <p> As Bashar al-Assad was on the verge of falling , Trump declared that the Syrian conflict was " not our fight " . But it is in the US interest to see that it retains some influence in Syria , at least to keep its enemies out . The US does not want to see Russian and Iranian influence re-emerge in Syria , or new rulers committed to the Islamic State . And in the wider region , he will have to ensure Iran does not cross the nuclear threshold . <p> Trump speaks of " a deal with Iran " , but Tehran must be deeply afraid that another option is a joint Israeli-US strike on its nuclear facilities and a push for regime change . Iran 's negotiating power has diminished as it can no longer play its Hezbollah hand , its stock of missiles is diminished , and it is facing growing internal dissent . <p> Russia is also a big loser from the overthrow of the regime they have backed for more than 50 years . The Russians are likely to lose their naval base at Tartus on the Mediterranean and a nearby air force base at Hmeimim . These have been important bases for Russia to ensure a continuous and sizable presence in the Mediterranean on NATO 's southern flank . The bases also give Russia a supply point for the operations of its Africa Corps across the Sahel . <p> Will HTS want to do a deal with the Russians that would allow them to retain their bases ? <h> Very little <p> Money might sway HTS , as the Syrian government now has very little after years of looting by the Assad 's and civil war . There are two grain shipments that Russia promised to the overthrown regime that are offshore , and Russia could transfer weapons . <p> But the West could pay a lot more for those bases or at least for them to be kept out of Russian hands . As a condition for Russia retaining its bases , the Syrians just might ask for the return of Assad as part of a wider deal . If the West is prepared to pay a sufficiently large amount , Russia will lose its bases . <p> The West , Russia , Iran and Israel have been talking to Syria 's new rulers , but much is up in the air . It is hardly the case that HTS are able to exercise nationwide control . The Israelis have been hitting military targets so that weapon and chemical warfare stocks do not fall into the wrong hands . <p> HTS rhetoric has been conciliatory , which represents a change from its days as part of ISIS . Turkey probably wants to see the country put together again , and end the war by the Kurds for an independent state . Russian forces have retreated into the naval and air base but multiple armed groups , including Islamic State , the Kurds , the Turkestan Islamic Party and the Syrian armed opposition , control different parts of the country . <p> What sort of autonomy will HTS have to guarantee for these armed groups to be prepared to agree to unite the country ? <p> Under Assad , the Israelis , the US , and the Russians launched attacks on the Islamic State and would coordinate certain operations . It was a weird arrangement , but one that worked , on the whole . Under the new dispensation , it is unclear that the Islamic State and the other armed actors will suddenly fall in line . That leaves various scenarios for chaos on the table , but without Russia and Iranian influence . <h> Losing side <p> All this does not leave South Africa in a very good position . After all , Russia , which President Cyril Ramaphosa said a few months ago was our " valued ally " and " valued friend " , is on the losing side . And another close friend , Iran -- which we , with others , invited into the BRICS grouping - is also on the losing side . <p> South Africa seems to have been at a loss for words since the overthrow of Assad . Just days before the regime fell the international relations department said it was standing in " solidarity " with his regime . <p> Throughout the Syrian civil war , the ANC government refused to condemn Assad 's extensive use of chemical weapons , the massive number of civilian deaths , and the extensive torture used by his regime . With Assad gone , Pretoria clearly chose the wrong side for moral and pragmatic reasons . <p> *Jonathan Katzenellenbogen is a Johannesburg-based freelance journalist . His articles have appeared on DefenceWeb , Politicsweb , as well as in a number of overseas publications . Katzenellenbogen has also worked on Business Day and as a TV and radio reporter and newsreader . He has a Master 's degree in International Relations from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and an MBA from the MIT Sloan School of Management . <p> This article was first published by Daily Friendand is republished with permission
