<h> 24 hours in pictures , 18 December 2024 <h> Through the lens : The Citizen 's Picture Editors select the best news photographs from South Africa and around the world . <p> South African aquarist Mthobisi Mlambo dressed as Santa Claus feeds a Eagle Ray fish during a show at Africa 's largest marine park , the South African Marine Biological Research ( SAMBR ) Sea World based at the uShaka Marine World , in Durban on December 18 , 2024 . ( Photo by RAJESH JANTILAL / AFP ) <p> An aerial view taken with a drone shows the newly constructed bridge built by the Swiss army , following the devastation caused by storms that impacted Cevio , Switzerland , 18 December 2024 . In June 2024 , a series of severe storms caused major damage in various regions of Switzerland . Picture : EPA-EFE/SAMUEL GOLAYA Coronationville resident holds a placard as other residents queue to fill water bottles and jerrycans from larger water storage tanks amid an ongoing water outage in Johannesburg , on December 17 , 2024 . Johannesburg has been experiencing water disruptions for the past few days caused by maintainance work on the Eikenhof and Zwartkopjes pump stations . According to Coronationville residents this is a recurring problem forcing them to queue almost every week , not only during maintenance work on the infrastructure . ( Photo by Roberta Ciuccio / AFP ) Soldiers stand guard near the site where several bodies were discovered at a warehouse in the Sayyida Zeinab district of Damascus , Syria , 18 December 2024 . According to the White Helmets , around 20 bodies and 10 bags containing human bones were discovered at the warehouse in the Sayyida Zeinab district . Picture : EPA-EFE/MOHAMMED AL RIFAIA veiled Iranian woman walks in front of a shop selling Christmas items in Tehran , Iran , 18 December 2024 . Approximately 150,000 Christians live in Iran , with Armenians constituting the majority . They celebrate Christmas in churches and privately at home . Some Muslim families have also adopted a few Christmas traditions and buy presents and even Christmas trees for their children to enjoy . Picture : EPA-EFE/ABEDIN TAHERKENAREHA woman with a child poses for a photo with a person dressed as Santa Claus at the Christmas Market and Advent in Zagreb , Croatia , 18 December 2024 . Zagreb Advent is a popular Christmas tourism attraction that takes place in 29 different locations throughout Zagreb from 29 November 2024 to 08 January 2025 . Picture : EPA-EFE/ANTONIO BATThe monument to Russian Admiral Ivan Kruzenshtern is silhoutetted at Lieutenant Schmidt Embankment during sunset in St. Petersburg , Russia , 18 December 2024 . Temperatures in Russia 's second-largest city reached minus ten degrees Celsius . Picture : EPA-EFE/ANATOLY MALTSEVSeveral migrants are taken care of by the Red Cross upon their arrival at the port in the town of Arrecife , Lanzarote island , Canary Islands , southwestern Spain , 18 December 2024 . Spanish authorities rescued 57 migrants , including five women , 83 km off Lanzarote Island . Picture : EPA-EFE/Adriel PerdomoPeople skate on an ice rink inside the Grand Palais in Paris , France , 18 December 2024 . After five years of renovation , the Grand Palais is open for the world 's largest indoor ice rink . Picture : EPA-EFE/TERESA SUAREZPresident of Countdown Entertainment Jeffrey Straus ( R ) reacts to the seven-foot-tall numerals for 2025 being lit for the first time after their arrival to Times Square in New York , New York , USA , 18 December 2024 . The numerals will soon placed atop One Times Square , where they will sit for the New Year 's Eve celebration . Picture : EPA-EFE/SARAH YENESELBuddhist devotees pay homage and walk around the pagoda containing the Sacred Lord Buddha 's tooth relic ( C ) , during an enshrinement ceremony at the Sanam Luang Royal Grounds in Bangkok , Thailand , 18 December 2024 . The Sacred Lord Buddha 's tooth relic from China was enshrined in Bangkok to honor the Thai King 's 72nd birthday on July 2024 , and to commemorate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and China . Known as Phra Dattha Thatu , the Buddha 's Tooth Relic is believed to be a physical remnant of the Buddha himself . Picture : EPA-EFE/NARONG SANGNAKTrainee artisans , women , prepare a gabba , the traditional Kashmiri rag , inside a training center in Srinagar , the summer capital of Indian Kashmir , 18 December 2024 . Many Kashmiri women artisans engage in colorful embroidery of gabba , the handmade Kashmiri winter rugs , crafted from wool or a blend of wool and cotton . This embroidery technique , passed down through generations , involves skilled women artisans employing a hooked needle to create patterns and motifs on the gabba 's surface . The traditional techniques employed in their creation not only preserve cultural heritage but also promote eco-friendly practices , resonating with contemporary sensibilities . Picture : EPA-EFE/FAROOQ KHANItalian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni reacts as she reports at the Senate on the upcoming European Council , in Rome , Italy , 18 December 2024 . EU leaders will attend a European Council meeting in Brussels on 19 December . Picture : EPA-EFE/FABIO FRUSTACIHouthi fighters take part in a parade during a mobilization campaign , in Sana'a , Yemen , 18 December 2024 . Yemen 's Houthis have been recruiting militiamen as part of a mobilization campaign amid tensions with the United States and Israel . The Houthis keep up drone and missile attacks on Israel and shipping lanes in the seas around Yemen , in retaliation for the US support for Israel 's military operations in the Gaza Strip . Picture : EPA-EFE/YAHYA ARHABParis Saint-Germain 's Italian goalkeeper #01 Gianluigi Donnarumma sustains an injury by Monaco 's Ivorian defender #17 Wilfried Singo ( L ) during the French L1 football match between AS Monaco and Paris Saint-Germain at the Louis II Stadium ( Stade Louis II ) in the Principality of Monaco on December 18 , 2024 . ( Photo by Valery HACHE / AFP ) Soldiers stand during a welcoming ceremony of Canada 's Minister of National Defense Bill Blair ( not pictured ) at the ministry 's headquarters in Warsaw , Poland , 18 December 2024 . The meeting will focus on strengthening relations between Poland and Canada in the fields of defense , security , and the exchange of experiences , as well as in the sphere of military cooperation and within NATO . Picture : EPA-EFE/ALBERT ZAWADAPicture of the wreckage of a Challenger 300 aircraft that crashed upon landing , and a burnt vehicle ( R ) , in the town of San Fernando , Buenos Aires Province , on December 18 , 2024 . The pilot and co-pilot died after the private plane crashed during landing and caught fire near the airport of San Fernando . No other injuries were reported . ( Photo by Juan MABROMATA / AFP )
