<h> OPINION <h> SA 's genocide application runs dry of valid arguments <p> Joel Block says so-called compelling circumstance of dehydration can also be academically countered <p> The credibility of South Africa 's multi-million Rand Genocide application against Israel at the ICJ appears to have gone from bad to worse over the 2024 festive season break . <p> The local media have steadfastly protected the Genocide application as an item of national pride asserting how untouchable and well crafted it is with words like " meticulous " " innovative " and " courageous " being penned at every opportunity . <p> The Daily Maverick for example recently stated that " The SA Legal Team may not have been crowned Person of the Year , but their 28% share of the public vote reflects the immense respect and admiration for their work . Their contributions this year stand as a beacon of hope and a testament to the power of collective effort . The South African ICJ team have not only made history , but have also inspired a nation by proving that our voices can shape global narratives . Their legacy will endure as one of the defining achievements of 2024 " <p> This seemingly decisive application is however looking more and more divisive as Israel 's military operations continue into 2025 . See my previous 3 articles which already counter the application 's assertions of Dumb Bombs , Hospital Attacks and Starvation as so-called compelling circumstances . <p> The Genocide application document now appears to be running dry of valid International Law arguments as the so-called compelling circumstance of Dehydration can also be academically countered . <p> Dehydration is mentioned twice in the application : <p> " In addition to being killed by Israeli weaponry , Palestinians in Gaza are also at immediate risk of death by dehydration as a result of the ongoing siege by Israel " . <p> " Causing widespread dehydration to besieged Palestinians in Gaza , through the cutting off of sufficient water " <p> The application furthermore states that " Israel continues to prevent sufficient humanitarian assistance to Palestinians in Gaza , including preventing sufficient access to water . " as a compelling circumstance requiring the indication of provisional measures <p> Social Media Evidence <p> On December 19 2024 COGAT - the Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories : Judea and Samaria and towards the Gaza Strip - posted rigorous arguments against allegations of Dehydration on X : <p> " Enough with the baseless accusations . Millions of liters of water flow into the Gaza Strip through 3 Israeli water pipelines . Israel also facilitated hundreds of water infrastructure repairs and fixed water lines leading to Gaza on the Israeli side that were damaged by Hamas . Some of these repairs were done under fire . Suggesting otherwise ignores reality and continuesHuman Rights Watch 's history of doing anything they can ( including ignoring the actions of Hamas terror ) to demonize Israel . " <p> Importantly a 2023 social media video recently re-surfaced which provides indisputable evidence that Hamas dig up local water pipelines and repurpose the materials to manufacture indiscriminate rockets . Posted by Hamas themselves , this video was picked up by media sources Crux , Spotlight , Daily Mail and the IDF and re-posted on their Youtube channels during October 2023 . <p> " Hamas video shows fighters crafting rockets from water pipes . A 2021 video shows fighters digging pipes out of the ground . The militants then attach pipes to warheads containing explosives . The video also shows various launchers Hamas uses for attacks . Hamas has used rockets crafted from pipes in previous attack on Israel " <p> " The European Union spent 100 Million Dollars on 30 Miles of Water pipes in Gaza and Palestine . Water pipes are dug out of the ground they are then cut into pieces , processed and cleaned in workshops . Following this explosives are then attached to them . This is especially concerning as with virtually no industrial capacity Hamas can produce a significant amount of rockets through recycled materials " <p> Believe it or not , this back-to-front situation of Hamas militants removing their own water pipelines is actually specifically ascertaimnable through the modern manual of International Humanitarian Law in an air and missile context . <p> As a starting point water pipelines are specifically listed as an object which is indispensable to the survival of the civilian population . <p> Furthermore the removal of water pipelines are prohibited in in International Law for the specific purpose of denying civilians their usage . <p> However this prohibition does not apply when the water pipelines are used by the enemy in direct support of military action . Therefore it appears to be academically feasible for the IDF to militarily intervene in Gaza 's water pipelines in certain circumstances . <p> The only condition is that in no event can the IDF take actions against water pipelines which may be expected to leave the civilian population of Gaza with such inadequate water to cause starvation or force its movement . Any valid military operations would of course also have to comply with the principles of Distinction , Proportionality and Precaution . <p> Conclusion : <p> Dehydration is yet another so-called compelling circumstance which may not be relied upon by SA 's legal team . The 95 Million Rand allocated from treasury to the departments of justice and international relations to pursue charges of Genocide against Israel may well have been misappropriated without the full knowledge of their chosen legal arguments .
