<h> 24 hours in pictures , 30 December 2024 <h> Through the lens : The Citizen 's Picture Editors select the best news photographs from South Africa and around the world . <p> Anti-riot police attempt to break up and arrest protesters braced on the ground in a stand off during protests to demand the release of those allegedly abducted by state security agencies in Nairobi on December 30 , 2024 . Security forces in the East African nation have been accused of carrying out dozens of illegal detentions since youth-led anti-government demonstrations in June and July . Kenyan President William Ruto has promised an end to abductions , following the latest spate of disappearances that have been condemned by rights groups , lawyers and politicians . ( Photo by Tony KARUMBA / AFP ) <p> Demonstrators during the Special Action Committee protest at Cape Town High Court on December 30 , 2024 in Cape Town , South Africa . This protest comes after the Special Action Committee filed an urgent application with the High Court to oppose the Western Cape Education Department ? s decision to cut 2407 teaching posts . ( Photo by Gallo Images/Brenton Geach ) A Fighter affiliated with Syria 's new administration rides on a camel together with a child near one of Hama 's landmark historic water wheels , or norias , on the Orontos riverbank in the heart of the central Syrian city on December 30 , 2024 . Rebel group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and allied factions who had pressed a lightning offensive since November 27 , seizing swathes of the country from government hands , including major cities Aleppo , Hama and Homs , entered the capital Damascus on December 8 , 2024 , ousting president Bashar al-Assad and ending five decades of brutal rule by his clan . ( Photo by OMAR HAJ KADOUR / AFP ) A person dressed as Santa Claus warms up prior to the start of the traditional Santa race in Skopje , Republic of North Macedonia , 29 December 2024 . Picture : EPA-EFE/GEORGI LICOVSKIA protester wearing a Christmas wreath , has her mouth taped with a slogan which reads " Shout " during a rally to call for the exchangeas of Ukrainian prisoners of war from the Azov Brigade and other units with Russian prisoners at St. Sophia Square in Kyiv on December 29 , 2024 , amid the Russian invasion in Ukraine . ( Photo by Sergei SUPINSKY / AFP ) Visitors enjoy Christmas decorations in the centre of Russian controlled Mariupol , on December 29 , 2024 . ( Photo by STRINGER / AFP ) A group of Nepalese indigenous people from the Gurung community wearing traditional attire perform during the ' Tamu Lhosar ' New Year fair in Kathmandu , Nepal , 30 December 2024 . Gurung people live on high altitude foothills of Nepal . Many British Gurkha soldiers are from the Gurung community and the Nepali government announced a public holiday to recognize the prominent festival of the community . Picture : EPA-EFE/NARENDRA SHRESTHAAn image taken by a drone shows the morning fog hovering around Mount Kekes in Galyateto , Hungary , 30 December 2024 . Picture : EPA-EFE/PETER KOMKAA statue of a peanut in honor of former US President Jimmy Carter , who was a peanut farmer , stands in Plains , Georgia , US , on December 30 , 2024 . Jimmy Carter , the 100-year-old former US president and Nobel peace laureate who rose from humble beginnings in rural Georgia to lead the nation from 1977 to 1981 , has died , his nonprofit foundation said December 29 . ( Photo by Alex Wroblewski / AFP ) A vendor selling paper horns waits for customers ahead of the New Year 's celebrations in Jakarta , Indonesia , 30 December 2024 . Picture : EPA-EFE/ADI WEDAPeople carry logs of wood during a wintry day in Yercaud , a hill station in India 's Tamil Nadu state , on December 30 , 2024 . ( Photo by R.Satish BABU / AFP ) Tourists enjoy camel safari in the desert of Pushkar on December 30 , 2024 . ( Photo by HIMANSHU SHARMA / AFP ) Farmers shout slogans as they block a road during the ' Punjab Bandh ' , a statewide strike by farmers against the central government demanding minimum support price ( MSP ) for their crops , on the outskirts of Amritsar on December 30 , 2024 . ( Photo by Narinder NANU / AFP ) The Chancellery can be seen behind a Christmas tree standing at Paul-Loebe-Haus , a parliamentary building where is taking place a hearing at a parliamentary committee focusing on the Magdeburg Christmas Market attack , on December 30 , 2024 in Berlin . German security and intelligence chiefs are due to face questioning about the car-ramming attack that killed five people and wounded more than 200 at a Christmas market in Magdeburg on December 20 , 2024 . They will be quizzed about possible missed clues and security failures before the attack in the eastern city , where police arrested the 50-year-old Saudi psychiatrist Taleb al-Abdulmohsen at the scene . ( Photo by John MACDOUGALL / AFP ) A view shows the tents of internally displaced Palestinians , on a windy day west of Deir Al Balah , central Gaza Strip , 30 December 2024 . According to the UN , at least 1.9 million people ( or nine in ten people ) across the Gaza Strip are internally displaced , including people who have been repeatedly displaced . Since October 2023 , only about 11 per cent of the Gaza Strip has not been placed under Israeli-issued evacuation orders , the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( OCHA ) , said . Picture : EPA-EFE/MOHAMMED SABERA man rows a boat on the waters of Dal Lake with the snow-covered Zabarwan hills in the backdrop in Srinagar , the summer capital of Indian Kashmir , 30 December 2024 . The recent snowfall broke an extended spell of dry weather . According to the local meteorological department , two more light to moderate spells of snowfall are expected from January 01 to 06 . Picture : EPA-EFE/FAROOQ KHANWomen in costumes walk down Wangfujing pedestrian street in Beijing , China , 30 December 2024 . Wangfujing is a popular tourist site in Beijing , currently adorned with festive decorations for the New Year celebrations that attract foreigners and locals . Chinese New Year , also known as the Spring Festival or Lunar New Year , will be observed on 29 January 2025 . Picture : EPA-EFE/WU HAO
