<h> Role of nuclear weapons grows as geopolitical relations deteriorate <p> The recently published Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ( SIPRI ) Yearbook sheds light on the worrying current state of the global nuclear arsenal . <p> Russia and the USA possess nearly 90% of the world 's nuclear weapons , with their military stockpiles showing stability in 2023 despite Russia deploying about 36 more operational warheads since January 2023 . Transparency on nuclear forces has decreased in both countries post-Russia 's Ukraine invasion , leading to increased discussions on nuclear-sharing arrangements . <p> In 2023 , the nine nuclear-armed states -- United States , Russia , United Kingdom , France , China , India , Pakistan , North Korea , and Israel -- continued to upgrade their nuclear arsenals and introduced new nuclear-armed or capable weapon systems , SIPRI found . As of January 2024 , out of an estimated global inventory of 12 121 warheads , approximately 9 585 were in military stockpiles . Around 2 100 of these deployed warheads were on high alert status , mostly in Russia and the USA , though China is now also reported to have warheads on high alert for the first time . <p> SIPRI 's estimate shows China 's nuclear arsenal increased from 410 warheads in January 2023 to 500 in January 2024 , with indications of deploying a small number of warheads on missiles during peacetime for the first time . <p> Hans M Kristensen , Associate Senior Fellow with SIPRI 's Weapons of Mass Destruction Programme and Director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists , stated that " China is expanding its nuclear arsenal faster than any other country . In February 2023 , Russia announced the suspension of its participation in the New START Treaty , the last remaining nuclear arms control agreement with the USA , prompting a reciprocal halt in treaty data sharing by the USA . " <p> Later in November , Russia withdrew its ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty ( CTBT ) , citing concerns over US non-ratification since 1996 , though it pledged to remain a signatory and cooperate with the CTBTO . Amid tensions over Ukraine , Russia has made nuclear threats and conducted tactical nuclear weapon drills near the Ukrainian border in May 2024 . <p> In 2023 , France continued advancing its third-generation nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine ( SSBN ) and developing a new air-launched cruise missile , while India expanded its nuclear arsenal slightly and , along with Pakistan , progressed in developing new nuclear delivery systems . <p> However , the most concerning changes regard North Korea , which maintained its military nuclear programme as a core national security strategy . It amassed an estimated 50 warheads and enough fissile material for up to 90 warheads , with developments in ballistic and cruise missile technologies aimed at nuclear delivery . <p> Matt Korda , Associate Researcher with SIPRI 's Weapons of Mass Destruction Programme and Senior Research Fellow for the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists , shared concern that " North Korea might intend to use these weapons very early in a conflict . " <p> Dan Smith , SIPRI Director , warned about the increased instability in conflicts around the world . " We are now in one of the most dangerous periods in human history . There are numerous sources of instability -- political rivalries , economic inequalities , ecological disruption , an accelerating arms race . " The Ukraine and Gaza wars notably have contributed to the weakening of nuclear diplomacy . <p> Russia announced the suspension of its participation in the New START Treaty in February 2023 , the last remaining nuclear arms control agreement with the USA , which resulted in a reciprocal halt in treaty data sharing by the USA . Later in November , Russia withdrew its ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty , and has made nuclear threats and conducted tactical nuclear weapon drills near the Ukrainian border in May 2024 . <p> On a positive note , China and the USA have agreed to resume military-to-military communication following US Secretary of State Antony Blinken 's June 2023 visit to Beijing .
