<h> Israel-Hamas war may lead to big risk-off market , echoing Russian invasion of Ukraine , says Alpine Macro <p> A full-blown war between Israel and Hamas has further stoked volatility in global markets , and one Wall Street firm said it could drive investors away from risk assets , mimicking the climate surrounding the Russia invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 . " The conflict 's course is uncertain , but will very likely escalate , possibly contributing to a significantly risk-off global environment over the next 1-3 months , " Dan Alamariu , chief geopolitical strategist at Alpine Macro , said in a note . " Think of Russia 's invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . " U.S. stocks were lower in early trading Monday as mounting geopolitical tensions added uncertainty to an already fragile market coping with stubborn inflation and surging interest rates . When Russia 's war in Ukraine began , the S &amp; P 500 suffered 11 down weeks in 17 from February to May , including a seven-week losing streak . That also coincided with the start of the Federal Reserve 's fastest tightening of monetary policy in 40 years . . SPX @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following the latest Middle East violence , with West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures climbing 3.7% , trading above $85 a barrel . Alpine Macro said volatility in the energy market could drag on if the conflict escalates further . " Short-term , the risk means prices should increase in the next few days and weeks , " Alamariu said . " This could be sustained longer-term if the conflict deepens/expands . " In the most extreme scenario , where Israel strikes Iran 's nuclear facilities , oil prices could soar above $150 per barrel , the firm said . In retaliation for the Hamas strikes into Israel on Saturday , Israeli Defense Minister Yoav Gallant mobilized 300,000 reservists and ordered a " complete siege " of the Gaza Strip , suspending all supplies of electricity , food and fuel from Israel to the territory . " Israel 's retaliation strategy is still TBD , but expect a very strong response , lasting weeks , if not months , and thus heightened geopolitical and market volatility , " Alamariu said .
