<p> Quentin Tarantino visited a military base in Southern Israel to help " boost morale " amid the state 's war with Hamas . The 60-year-old Pulp Fiction director toured military bases and mingled with soldiers , according the international nonprofit Israel education organization Stand With Us . <p> First , the Israel War Room X ( formerly known as Twitter ) account shared an image of the 60-year-old Pulp Fiction director meeting with Israeli troops in the wake of Hamas ' devastating Oct. 7 terrorist attack , which killed more than 1,400 people . The terrorist group is also reportedly holding at least at least 199 people as hostages in Gaza . <p> Nonprofit antisemitism organization Stand With Us posted a photo of Tarantino 's visit : " A bright moment during a dark time : Legendary filmmaker Quentin Tarantino showed his solidarity with the Israeli people by making a surprise visit to southern Israel , which has been completely devastated by Hamas ' ongoing terror war . There , he toured military bases and mingled with soldiers and residents , igniting a social media frenzy of selfies and videos . What a beautiful way to show support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible ground invasion into Gaza to fight those responsible for the attack -- which has been called the worst mass slaughter of Jews since the Holocaust -- as well as to try and rescue hostages , who include children and elderly people taken from their homes during Hamas ' surprise incursion into southern Israel . <p> Tarantino has been reportedly living in Tel Aviv with his wife , Israeli singer Daniella Pick , whom he met in Israel in 2009 during his promotional tour for Inglourious Basterds . The couple were married in 2018 and have two children . <p> Tarantino has said in previous interviews about his life in Israel : " I love the country , and the people are really nice , very nice to me , and they seem excited that I 'm here , " and said Tel Aviv is like a smaller version of L.A. , with " magnificent restaurants , cool bars , cool clubs . " He added , " I would n't make a movie about the political climate
