<p> Dave Chappelle weighed in on the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas during a recent standup gig in Boston , The Wall Street Journalreports . On stage at the TD Garden , the comedian condemned the attacks by the militant group on Israel before questioning the country 's own increasingly severe retaliations , proclaiming , " two wrongs do n't make a right . " <p> According to two people who attended the show , Chappelle criticized the Israeli government for cutting off water and electricity to civilians in the Gaza Strip and accused it of " killing innocent women and children " with American taxpayer dollars " while the whole world sits silently and watches . " At one point , a heckler shouted for the comedian to shut up , but after doubling down , other audience members cheered for Chappelle and broke into a chant of " Free Palestine . " <p> In the days since the initial attacks , Israel has launched retaliatory airstrikes against Gaza and cut off resources to the highly populated area , which has since been dubbed an open-air prison . One rocket caused an explosion at a Gaza hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflicting reports . The strike was initially thought to be carried out by Israel , but American intelligence agents have since concluded the rocket was likely launched within Gaza and broke up in air , accidentally hitting the hospital . <p> Singh 's testimony , which kicked off the third week of Bankman-Fried 's trial , provides fresh details of exactly where that money went . Singh , who has already pled guilty to fraud , money laundering and violation of campaign finance laws , said Monday that he learned of the massive hole in Alameda 's books as a result of a coding error that " prevented the correct accounting " of user deposits by around $8 billion . Singh 's testimony helps corroborate the statements given by three previous prosecution witnesses , all of whom were in Bankman-Fried 's inner circle : FTX CTO Gary Wang , Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison and FTX engineer Adam Yedidia.
