<h> In the Cities of Killing <p> On October 17th , mourners gathered in Gan Yavne for the funeral of the Kutz family , all shot to death during the attack that Hamas called the Al-Aqsa Flood . Livnat and Aviv Kutz and their three children were buried together.Photograph by Peter van Agtmael / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> The only way to tell this story is to try to tell it truthfully and to know that you will fail . <p> On the evening of Wednesday , October 18th , with the entire Middle East in a state of mourning and outrage , I took a taxi to the information offices of the Israel Defense Forces , a heavily guarded compound in northwest Tel Aviv . Like many reporters , I 'd accepted an invitation to see video evidence of the worst massacre of Jews in generations , certainly in the history of Israel -- Hamas 's rampage through Kibbutz Kfar Aza , Kibbutz Be'eri , and other communities near the Gaza Strip , extending to an outdoor electronic-music festival , Nova . At last count , the attack throughout what Israelis call Otef Aza -- " the Gaza envelope " -- had claimed some fourteen hundred lives ; thousands were wounded , and around two hundred and twenty people had been kidnapped and taken to the Gaza Strip . Hamas gave the operation a name , the Al-Aqsa Flood . <p> The roads in Israel were nearly as empty as they are on Yom Kippur . The only thing that might slow you down was a siren , a warning that a rocket was headed north out of Gaza toward Tel Aviv and other cities . This happened multiple times a day . The protocol , known to everyone , was that you pull over , get out , lie flat on the road , cover your head , and wait a few minutes before moving on . I had n't been in the country three hours before I was under an overpass on Highway 20 , waiting it out . The usual commercial signage along the highway had been transformed , seemingly overnight . No Coke Zero , no Toyota . Now the billboards blared assertions of unity -- " Together We 'll Win " -- and calls for the return of the hostages . Their photographs were everywhere . Earlier that day , the American President had arrived to meet with the Israeli Prime Minister . And , having delivered a message of ardent support flecked with notes of caution against being consumed with rage and making the kinds of catastrophic mistakes that the United States made in the wake of 9/11 , the President was in the air again , headed back to Washington . <p> The night before , in Tel Aviv at a friend 's house for dinner , I received a series of WhatsApp messages from Mosab Abu Toha , a thirty-year-old poet who lives with his wife and children in Beit Lahia , in northern Gaza . Lately , he 's been staying with relatives in the Jabalia refugee camp , about a mile and a half away . Born in the Al-Shati refugee camp , in Gaza City , he left the Strip for the first time four years ago . He ended up studying for a master 's of fine arts in poetry , at Syracuse University . Now Mosab , in one-sentence bursts , was saying that the Al-Ahli Arab Hospital , in Zeitoun , a southern district of Gaza City , had been bombed by Israeli warplanes : " God help us . " He sent images -- first of a burning building and a prostrate man , presumably dead , in the street -- and he relayed reports of body counts : <p> " Between 200 and 300 got killed . " <p> Then : " More than 500 were killed in the hospital . " <p> Then : " More than 800 . " <p> Then : " It 's now 1,115 people killed in the bombing of the hospital in Gaza . " <p> He was not claiming authority or proximity to the hospital but conveying the alarm on his own social networks . Later , Mosab sent a photograph of a dead baby cradled in the gloved hands of a medical worker . " Sorry to send this , " he added as a caption , " but this is one victim in the hospital 's massacre . " <p> The body of a Hamas fighter lies on the ground outside a burned home in Kfar Aza , a kibbutz near the border with Gaza.Photograph by Peter van Agtmael / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> Soon everyone at the dinner table was getting push alerts -- from Israeli media , from the wires , from CNN , the BBC , the Times . The conversation went on at a very high pitch . As we ate , there were , as there had been night after night , echoing booms : rockets from Gaza . People paused , listened for a moment , and continued eating . These rockets , they had clearly judged , did not warrant a trip to the mamad , the reinforced safe room downstairs . Whether to seek shelter has long been a matter of expertise and routine . Later , some people wandered from the table to flip between Channels 12 and 13 on Israeli television . News anchors were now sharing statements from Israeli government sources denying that Israel had fired a missile or dropped a bomb anywhere near the hospital ; in fact , they said , the responsibility for the disaster lay with Palestinian Islamic Jihad , an armed group that is smaller than Hamas but no less militant . It was a failed rocket launch , they said . Hours later , American intelligence agencies declared that their information was in accord with the Israeli assessment . <p> When I asked Mosab what he thought of the denials , he answered , " No one believes them . " He criticized as " unfair " President Biden 's statement suggesting that Israel was n't responsible , and added , " Well , what if it were ? " WhatsApp messages kept my phone vibrating . " It was responsible for past massacres at schools , " Mosab wrote . " What did the American Administration do in response ? " <p> Like every Gazan his age , Mosab had lived through countless air assaults . One day when he was eight and out shopping for dinner , he looked up and saw an Apache helicopter fire into a high-rise . This was at the start of the second intifada , in 2000 . Since then , he 's lost friends and relatives ; funerals and rubble are fixtures of life for him and his neighbors . When he was sixteen , in the midst of what the Israelis called Operation Cast Lead , he was hit in the head , neck , and shoulder with shrapnel during a bombing . <p> Mosab was not inclined to defer to the intelligence assessments of the Israelis , any more than Israeli officials were apt to accept discussions of the blockade of Gaza and the occupation of the West Bank as " context " for the massacres in the south . There were , of course , facts -- many of them unknown -- but the narratives came first , all infused with histories and counter-histories , grievances and fifty varieties of fury , all rushing in at the speed of social media . People were going to believe what they needed to believe . And so , while the Israelis and their allies were relieved by the intelligence reports of a disastrous misfire by Islamic Jihad , the Palestinians and most of the Arab world were having none of it . The funerals went on . The Israeli bombing of Gaza -- with thousands dead , hospitals at the brink of collapse , infrastructure crumbling -- intensified . So did the mobilization for an Israeli ground offensive . There were skirmishes between Israel and Hezbollah on Israel 's border with Lebanon , threats from the ayatollahs in Iran , American warships in the eastern Mediterranean . <p> The cab dropped me off at the I.D.F. compound in Ramat Aviv . A soldier in a guard booth shoved aside an aluminum container of takeout macaroni , inspected my passport , and took me up to the second floor . I entered a large open-plan room filled with young officers and younger soldiers working intently at their phones and laptops , delivering the Israeli position to media around the world . For a week , their priority had been to make sure that everyone knew about the atrocities in Otef Aza . Now the task was to put out intelligence on the hospital bombing and , no less essential , to slam the foreign media , whose early push alerts and headlines had blamed Israel . " For the last ten days , we have been continuously asked about whether children were beheaded , not only murdered , " one reservist , Yair Zivan , who is a diplomatic adviser to the former Prime Minister Yair Lapid , told me . " Yesterday , these same news outlets did n't wait for one moment before reporting that Israel was responsible for the bombing of the hospital . Where does that come from ? " <p> " Whoa , whoa ! Where do you two think you 're going ? " <p> Cartoon by Harry Bliss <p> Link copied <p> I was led to a large , windowless conference room and took a seat . There were three bowls of snacks -- peanuts , walnuts , and sugar cookies -- and complimentary I.D.F. notebooks . Across a table sat two men : Amnon Shefler , a lieutenant colonel and a senior I.D.F. spokesman , and , hunched over a laptop , Mattan Harel-Fisch , who had compiled video of the massacre from closed-circuit security cameras , from GoPro cameras and cell phones that the Hamas gunmen used to record what they did , and from social-media clips posted by both Hamas and its Israeli victims . The compilation he was about to show was forty-three minutes long . But , Harel-Fisch said , there was endless material : " I am now making a second movie . " The video would be shown on a flat-screen on the wall to my right . <p> The officers were more than aware that they would be accused of propagandizing . They did not much care . As Anshel Pfeffer , a columnist for Haaretz , had written a few days before , what took place on the morning of the 7th was " the greatest massacre of any Jewish community in the historic Land of Israel since the Middle Ages . " Demands for vengeance were commonplace . <p> And yet who would prevent another march of folly ? Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had always fancied himself his country 's Churchill and kept a framed portrait of Britain 's wartime leader near his desk , next to one of Theodor Herzl , the founder of modern Zionism . In speeches against appeasement , Netanyahu quoted his hero on the " confirmed unteachability of mankind . " But Churchill , for all his flaws , did not bring a collection of messianic zealots into his cabinet ; he did not lead a country while being under criminal indictment ; he did not leave the security of the state vulnerable to bulldozers and armed men on motorcycles . <p> Netanyahu has been heckled by reservists and vilified in the press . A poll published in the newspaper Ma'ariv six days after the massacre showed that forty-eight per cent of Israelis preferred that Benny Gantz , a phlegmatic retired Army general and a centrist politician who was brought into a new unity government , lead the country ; only twenty-nine per cent preferred Netanyahu . The same paper also reported that eighty per cent of Israelis wanted Netanyahu to take responsibility for the security failures on October 7th , as leaders of the I.D.F. and the Shin Bet , the country 's internal security service , had done . Netanyahu , who can not bear to express repentance or regret for his government 's failure , or even to show compassion for the bereaved -- something that , many Israelis noted , Biden was able to do -- is unlikely to step down or step back . <p> Harel-Fisch said that the footage was horrifying . There would be extended clips of stalking , shootings , abductions , torched houses , burned corpses , terrorized children , dead children , dead infants , mutilation , jubilation . Before the viewing started , Shefler wanted to make one last point . He had just come back from a stint in the U.S. , studying at the Kennedy School of Government , at Harvard . He said that he found his fellow-students " frozen " when it came to discussing the Israeli-Palestinian issue , scared to get into its history lest the discussion go sideways . But while the shades of gray were important , he went on , there were times when " some things are black and some things are white . " <p> Shefler excused himself and left the room . Harel-Fisch turned out the lights . He tapped a key on his laptop and the horror show began . <p> The night flight from J.F.K. to Ben Gurion Airport , six days earlier , was packed . On the El Al check-in line , a complicated security process even under normal circumstances , the passenger behind me , a man of late middle age , had perched on his suitcase what appeared to be a shrink-wrapped machine gun . I stopped worrying about the tube of toothpaste in my carry-on . <p> " What is your business in Israel ? " the security person asked . <p> I landed in time for dinner with friends outside Tel Aviv on Friday . Later that night , Avichai Brodutch , a father of three , from Kibbutz Kfar Aza , was trying to sleep at his parents ' apartment south of Tel Aviv . Brodutch is forty-two , an exceedingly modest man , a grower of pineapples who had turned to studying nursing . In the dark of his room that night , he stared at the ceiling ; as he told me the next day , his mind was " spinning . " He 'd taken half a Klonopin . It did him no good . His wife , Hagar , and his children -- Ofri , Yuval , and Uriah -- were hostages in the Gaza Strip . <p> Early on the morning of October 7th , Hamas fighters swarmed the lush grounds of Kfar Aza . According to documents recovered by the I.D.F. , they carried accurate maps of their targets and detailed battle plans : " The subordinate cell advances with the securing forces . . . . They must shoot down as many victims as possible , take hostages and take some of them to the Gaza Strip using various cars . " After roughly two years of planning , the fighters -- led by members of the Nukhba , ? lite forces of the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades -- breached the border fence around Gaza , and more than fifteen hundred of them sped toward the kibbutzim , on motorcycles , in pickup trucks with mounted machine guns . Some went over the border fence on paragliders . After getting past the yellow gate of Kfar Aza , they went house to house , peeking in windows , testing doors . Their pace was methodical . To smoke people out of their safe rooms , they set fire to spare tires . To prevent escape , they torched cars . Then the real killing began . <p> Around seven hundred and fifty people lived in the kibbutz of Kfar Aza . After the massacre , most of the houses were bullet-pocked ruins , caved in , blown up , or torched.Photograph by Peter van Agtmael / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> Avichai Brodutch stands outside the Ministry of Defense in Tel Aviv . His wife and three children were kidnapped by Hamas in the attacks on October 7th , the day after Brodutch 's eldest child celebrated her tenth birthday.Photograph by Peter van Agtmael / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> In the chaos , Brodutch lost contact with his family . Only hours later did he learn that they were missing . Soldiers sorted through the corpses strewn around the grounds -- many of them burned and blackened . In the days after the massacre , Brodutch was told that the bodies of his wife and children had not been found , and that a witness had seen them being led away , presumably en route to Gaza . When Brodutch heard this , he recalled , " I felt like I 'd won the lottery . " His family was alive . <p> Now , in his sleeplessness , he needed to do something , anything , to make sure that his wife and children were not forgotten . He got up , showered , and dressed in donated clothes : shorts , a T-shirt , and Crocs . He collected his dog , Rodney , a chocolate-brown Ridgeback , and drove to Tel Aviv , getting out at the Kirya , the I.D.F. 's headquarters , on Kaplan Street . This was where , since January , tens of thousands of Israelis had assembled every week to protest the Netanyahu government 's plan to reduce the authority of the Supreme Court . At around three , he sat down on a plastic chair next to a sign that he 'd drawn reading " HaMishpacha Sheli Be'aza " : " My Family Is in Gaza . " Brodutch 's brother , who was visiting from Canada , posted a picture of him and sent it to their WhatsApp groups . By daylight , a small crowd had gathered around him . By late morning , when I arrived , there were hundreds of people , many of them chanting slogans calling for Netanyahu 's resignation . Another slogan was " Hayom ! " " Today ! " As in , Bring the hostages back today . <p> The victims of the Hamas attack -- the dead , the survivors , the kidnapped -- were not settlers or fanatics ; they were , in the main , the liberals of Israel , a breed that still speaks ( with caveats and shades of difference ) about peace and two states for two peoples . They tend to loathe Netanyahu for his hubris and corruption , his disdain for the Palestinians , his attempt to diminish the Supreme Court , and his alliance with such lurid reactionaries as his national-security minister , Itamar Ben-Gvir , and his finance minister , Bezalel Smotrich . Some of the survivors were not especially political ; some had come to the previous Kaplan Street demonstrations . They joined groups like Achim Laneshek , or Brothers in Arms , reservists who marched against Netanyahu . After October 7th , they put aside protest for rescue work . <p> Brodutch sat down with me on a bench to talk , but every few minutes someone would come up and hug him , hard , shaking with grief and fury . People kept bringing him clothing , drinks , food : kugel , couscous , a pile of meatballs . Brodutch was touched and embarrassed , but , even in his gratitude , he could not eat . To please one visitor , he ate a teaspoonful of pomegranate seeds . His smile was sheepish , his eyes full of hurt , though he could not manage to cry , much as he wanted to . <p> " I do n't know what my state of mind is , " he said . " There is so much grief , so much love . " The night before the attack , Ofri , his eldest child , had celebrated her tenth birthday at a restaurant near the kibbutz . " We were meant to have the birthday cake on Saturday , " Brodutch told me . " It 's probably still in the fridge . " <p> " That 's an old wives ' tale . You can wake up whenever and there are worms all over the place . " <p> Cartoon by Sophie Lucido Johnson and Sammi Skolmoski <p> Link copied <p> A paratrooper named Ido Buhadana tapped Brodutch on the shoulder . Brodutch recognized him immediately . On their rampage , Hamas fighters had not only managed to blind the Army 's surveillance systems and break through the forty-mile-long border fence at more than twenty points ; they also stormed at least eight military bases and killed dozens of soldiers who might have been able to beat back the onslaught . Buhadana was among the reservists who made it to Kfar Aza that day , first to hunt for remaining terrorists , then to search for survivors . Now he , too , was shaking with emotion . After a while , he wiped the sweat from his head and the tears from his face , and sat down . " If you are speaking by proportion , this is way worse than 9/11 , " he said . " The world should know how cruel these people are . " <p> The scene outside the I.D.F. headquarters was an open-air shiva , part of a national shiva . So many well-wishers were descending on Brodutch that he finally asked to take a break , and headed off with his brother . When we met again , a short while later , Brodutch made it clear that he wanted to deliver a message that was out of keeping with the dominant emotions of the day -- the hunger for vengeance , the outrage at the failure of the Israeli government to protect its citizens . Brodutch allowed that the state had failed : " This is a colossal disaster that will be investigated in years to come . " But he was painstakingly deliberate in his comments about his family 's kidnappers . His wife and his children were in the hands of Hamas , and Hamas was keenly aware of what was being written and said about the organization abroad , including in Israel . Every time Israel dropped a bomb , he worried that it might kill his family . " I have to hope that there is someone watching over them , " he said . " It was overkill by Hamas . I do n't think they thought things would go that far . At least , I want to believe that . Their religion is peaceful . No religion can be successful for long if it is not peaceful . " <p> He was terrified by the prospect of a ground war . " We are going the wrong way , " he said . " We 've had a sign from God , and if we read it as a sign to go to war that is one thing . We should be sending humanitarian aid to women , children , and the elderly . Hamas believes that women , children , and the elderly should not be attacked , but something on their side went very wrong . I do n't think they thought this attack would be so easy , and they just lost it . " <p> Uriah , his youngest , is four and a half . Brodutch said that he imagined his son would be " causing havoc wherever he is , " and that , maybe for that reason , Hamas would lose patience and let him be the first one released . " I 've seen military conflict for years and years , " he said , " and it solves nothing . " <p> On a trip to Gaza during the second intifada , I met one of the founders of Hamas , a former surgeon named Mahmoud al-Zahar . This was 2001 , and al-Zahar was fifty-seven . " ' David , ' " he said . " That 's a Jewish name , is n't it ? " Hamas , a radical , religious rival to the Palestine Liberation Organization , was determined to free " the whole of Palestine . " Hamas might consider a two-state solution , but only as a hudna , a ceasefire . The ultimate goal , al-Zahar said , " is to establish an Islamic state in Palestine , in Egypt , in Lebanon , in Saudi Arabia -- everywhere under a single caliphate . " Certain conclusions followed from this : " We will not tolerate a non-Islamic state on Islamic lands . " <p> In Sderot , a small coastal city about half a mile from Gaza , the Israeli military 's Iron Dome air-defense system intercepts an incoming rocket from Gaza.Photograph by Peter van Agtmael / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> The spiritual leader of Hamas , an outgrowth of the Muslim Brotherhood , was a Gazan sheikh named Ahmed Yassin , who , in the years after the 1967 Six-Day War , established a range of social-service organizations in Gaza , which had just become Israeli-occupied territory . In those days , many Israelis shopped in Gaza City or went to the beach nearby ; tens of thousands of Gazans commuted regularly to jobs inside Israel , a practice that Yassin feared would be corrosive to the moral values of young Muslims . He stressed da'wa , the call to God . But , as a way of keeping militants within the fold and of keeping pace with the P.L.O . as a force of resistance , Yassin sanctioned the import of arms and the formation of nascent militia groups . In 1987 , when the first intifada began , in a Gaza refugee camp , Hamas -- an acronym for Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiyya , the Islamic Resistance Movement -- was born . Four years later , Hamas established its military wing , the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades . Led today by Mohammed Deif , who was born in a refugee camp in Khan Yunis , in southern Gaza , the Brigades have been behind countless military operations against Israel over the years , from car bombs to suicide attacks , though never anything as tactically intricate or as ambitious as Operation Al-Aqsa Flood . Among the stated objectives of the massacre , a Hamas leader said , was to free Palestinian prisoners in Israel and to protect the Al-Aqsa Mosque from desecration , but many suspected ambitions that were wider in scope , including scuttling a rapprochement between Israel and Saudi Arabia . <p> The original Hamas charter , or covenant , was a nine-thousand-word treatise adopted shortly after the group 's founding . It was filled with antisemitic conspiracy theories , all the traditional tropes of cunning , greed , and world domination : the Jews started the First World War , it asserted , in a scheme to topple the Islamic Caliphate , and they started the Second World War in order to make " huge profits from trading war materiel . " The Zionists , who had replaced " the state of truth " with " the state of evil , " aspire to " expand from the Nile to the Euphrates , " while Hamas " strives to raise the banner of Allah over every inch of Palestine . " <p> Hamas , in its first decade , established no caliphate , but it did help propel the ascent of the right in Israeli politics . After Israel and the P.L.O . signed the Oslo Accords , in Washington , in 1993 ; in Cairo , in 1994 ; and in Taba , Egypt , in 1995 , Hamas tried to undermine progress toward a binding two-state resolution . The organization , which condemned the P.L.O . for having recognized the state of Israel , backed a string of suicide bombings in Jerusalem , Tel Aviv , and elsewhere . Israeli militants , too , sought to sabotage the accords , and in 1995 a young right-wing zealot assassinated Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin . Israeli voters at first seemed likely to turn to a candidate from Rabin 's Labor Party , Shimon Peres , who had received a Nobel Peace Prize , along with Rabin and Yasir Arafat , for his role in conceiving the Oslo agreements . Hamas , in a sense , was the spoiler . Playing on the fears of the people , Netanyahu and his Likud Party won with the support of conservatives , settlers , the ultra-Orthodox , and the Mizrachi , Jews with origins in the Middle East and North Africa . During the campaign , he made sure to be overheard when he told a spiritual leader of the Sephardim , Rabbi Yitzhak Kaduri , " Leftists have forgotten what it is to be Jewish . They think they will put security in the hands of the Arabs -- that Arabs will look out for us . " He won the election , and though he has spent occasional periods in the wilderness , he has now been Prime Minister for a total of sixteen years , longer even than David Ben-Gurion . <p> In Netanyahu 's first term , I spoke at length with him in Jerusalem , and even interviewed his father , Benzion , a reclusive scholar of the Spanish Inquisition whose sense that Jewish history is in perpetual danger of coming to an end exerted a powerful influence on his son . " The Jewish people have had a history unlike any other people 's because they lacked the elements of national survival , " the Prime Minister told me . " On the other hand , they did n't perish completely . They perished mostly . They were about ten per cent of the Roman Empire at the time of the birth of Christ , so by any calculation they should be about a hundred and twenty million and not twelve million . . . . What happened after the worst catastrophe in our history is that we somehow amassed the national will to reforge a vital center for Jewish life here in Israel . " Netanyahu 's sense of the state and of himself as its unillusioned guardian was clear : " You have to protect yourself . This is what the Jews did n't have . They did n't have the means to protect themselves against evil , the baser impulses of mankind . And they paid a price unlike any other people . We now have the means to protect ourselves . " <p> In 2005 , Ariel Sharon , a Likud Prime Minister known as the Bulldozer , defied much of his right-wing constituency by evacuating the Israeli settlements in Gaza . The aim of disengagement was to yield a rough peace and make Israel more secure , but the following year Hamas rose to power , winning legislative elections and , after a military confrontation , ousting the Palestinian Authority from the Gaza Strip . There have been no elections since . <p> " We have an extensive wine list designed to overwhelm you with choices , leading you to say ' Sounds good ! ' to whatever I recommend . " <p> Cartoon by Mads Horwath <p> Link copied <p> Although the occupation had , in the Israeli view , ended , Gaza remained under siege and blockade , and a spiral of violence deepened the immiseration of daily life . In December , 2008 , following a period of Qassam rockets and counterraids , Israel launched Operation Cast Lead , which killed at least a thousand Palestinians , devastated civic infrastructure in Gaza City , and left many thousands homeless . In 2012 , Israel responded to Hamas rocket fire with eight days of air strikes ; at least eighty-seven Palestinian civilians were killed . In 2014 , after Hamas abducted and murdered three Israeli teen-agers , Israel commenced a seven-week assault , killing more than fourteen hundred Palestinian civilians . <p> In 2017 , Hamas toned down its rhetoric . Despite its authoritarian rule in the Strip -- its suppression of the Palestinian Authority and any other rival for power -- the group asserted in Article 28 of its updated manifesto that " Hamas believes in , and adheres to , managing its Palestinian relations on the basis of pluralism , democracy , national partnership , acceptance of the other and the adoption of dialogue . " The new document said that Hamas 's fight was with Zionism , not with the Jewish people as such , but it unhesitatingly reaffirmed its ultimate ambition of eliminating the " Zionist entity . " <p> As the Israeli right solidified its hold on power , some in the country came to view its draconian anti-Palestinian policies with repugnance . Yair Golan is a retired Army general in his early sixties ; he is graying yet as trim as a blade . He was an infantry commander during the second intifada , and then led the Judea and Samaria division , in the West Bank . But he grew increasingly disgusted with the military 's treatment of Palestinians , and he did not keep his views to himself . A speech that he delivered seven years ago at a Holocaust Remembrance Day ceremony at Kibbutz Tel Yitzhak caused a furor . Golan , who was then the deputy chief of staff of the I.D.F. , warned that Israeli society had grown callous to " the other , " and said , " If there is something that frightens me in the memory of the Holocaust , it is identifying horrifying processes that occurred in Europe , particularly in Germany , seventy , eighty , and ninety years ago , and finding evidence of their existence here in our midst today , in 2016 . " He referred to an incident in Hebron in which an I.D.F. sergeant was filmed shooting a Palestinian who had stabbed an Israeli soldier but had already been subdued and was prostrate . " There is nothing easier and simpler , " Golan said , " than behaving like a beast , becoming morally corrupt , and sanctimonious . " <p> Although Isaac Herzog , now Israel 's President , praised Golan for his " morality and responsibility , " Netanyahu blasted Golan 's reference to the Holocaust as " outrageous , " and there were countless calls for the general 's resignation . In the end , he walked back his comments somewhat , but his disenchantment was such that he joined Meretz , a political party to the left of Labor , vowing to battle the annexation of the West Bank . <p> I ran into Golan at the studios of Channel 13 , near Jerusalem . He was there to tell the story about what he did on the morning of the massacre . As a reservist , he threw on his uniform , got his gun , drove to a military outpost in the city of Ramle , and asked to be an " envoy . " He made his way south and started getting calls from people whose friends or family were in the area , some of them at the Nova festival , in Re'im . The calls came first from his sister and from a reporter at Haaretz -- both of whom had relatives hiding from the attackers -- and then from others . He rescued them all , pulling them from behind bushes and trees and shuttling them to safety . Suddenly , he was all over the news . <p> On October 21st , in southern Gaza , a medical worker cradled a victim of an air strike , one of many air assaults on Gaza in the previous two weeks.Photograph by Fatima Shbair / AP <p> As we sat together , Golan talked about the depths of the Israeli failure . About officials who thought that by " shrinking the conflict " they could maintain the status quo indefinitely . About the complacency engendered by high fences and a security system overly reliant on " startup nation " technologies and the Special Forces . About the failure of Netanyahu and his intelligence and military bureaucracies to heed warnings of imminent danger , in Gaza and beyond . About the moral deficits of a government obsessed with protecting its Prime Minister from criminal prosecution and indifferent to the corrosive effects of the blockade of Gaza and the occupation of the West Bank . All these factors helped open the way to the October 7th massacre , he believed , and to a war being led by an untrustworthy leader . <p> " When you have a crisis , like Pearl Harbor or September 11th , it is a multidimensional crisis , a multidimensional failure , " Golan said . Netanyahu , who in 2009 was elected for the second time , after Operation Cast Lead , " made a terrible strategic mistake , " Golan went on . " He wanted quiet . So , while Hamas was relatively quiet , Netanyahu saw no need to have a vision for the larger Palestinian question . And since he needed the support of the settlers and the ultra-Orthodox , he appeased them . He created a situation in which , so long as the Palestinian Authority was weak , he could create the over-all perception that the best thing to do was to annex the West Bank . We weakened the very institution that we could have worked with , and strengthened Hamas . " <p> Golan was referring to a strategy of Netanyahu 's , deployed over the past fourteen years , that is known as the " conception . " Its aim was to weaken the Palestinian Authority , which sought territorial compromise , by bolstering its enemy Hamas . While refusing to engage the P.A. and its leader , Mahmoud Abbas , in any serious negotiations , the government permitted hundreds of millions of dollars from Qatar to stream into Hamas 's coffers and increased the flow of work permits for Gazans with jobs inside Israel . It was n't that Netanyahu cared one way or another about the poor of Gaza ; it was , in his view , a matter of strategic guile . But , as Golan 's old boss Gadi Eisenkot , a former I.D.F. chief of staff , told Ma'ariv last year , Netanyahu carried out this strategy " in total opposition to the national assessment of the National Security Council , which determined that there was a need to disconnect from the Palestinians and establish two states . " <p> Israeli security forces in Jerusalem block an entrance to the Al-Aqsa Mosque while residents of the Old City pray outside its doors.Photograph by Peter van Agtmael / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> One aspect of Netanyahu 's Churchill complex is his colossal self-assurance , and he was unflinchingly confident in his " conception . " As he reportedly put it in a Likud meeting , " Anyone who wants to thwart the establishment of a Palestinian state must support bolstering Hamas and transferring money to Hamas . . . . This is part of our strategy . " Last December , he told an interviewer for Saudi television , " I think my record speaks for itself . The last decade in which I led Israel was the safest decade in Israel 's history . But not only safe and secure for Israelis , also safe and secure for the Palestinians . " It was a litany of bad faith , deception , and delusion , with disastrous consequences . <p> " I commanded Judea and Samaria from 2005 to 2007 , " Golan told me , referring to the West Bank . " The most frustrating thing to me is the inability of anyone to envision how these two peoples can live together . We are not going anywhere . And they are not going anywhere . Occupation is not a solution . Our peoples should both be led by sensible majorities , but both peoples are being led by their extremists . This is the challenge of Israel . " <p> In the meantime , there was the spectre of a land war . Golan argued that this could not be avoided : " To recover our villages and kibbutzim in the south , we need one-hundred-per-cent security in the area . To do that , you need to make the military of Hamas irrelevant . There will be an ongoing operation , attacks all the time . In the next few days , you will see only the first stage of that war . " <p> Before he hurried off to his next appointment , I asked him about the prospects of a multifront war : with Hamas , in Gaza ; with Hezbollah , on the border with Lebanon ; with Iranian proxy militias coming from Syria and Iraq ; even with Iran itself . He put the chances at " ten or fifteen per cent . " <p> In school or beyond , nearly every Israeli encounters Hayim Nahman Bialik 's 1904 poem " In the City of Killing , " written in Hebrew just after the pogrom in Kishinev , in the Russian Empire 's Pale of Settlement . After a local antisemitic newspaper published reports that Jews had murdered a Christian child in the area to use his blood for Passover matzo , mobs led by priests went on a rampage , with cries of " Kill the Jews ! " A historical commission , in Odesa , assigned Bialik , a young Hebrew teacher , to travel to Kishinev and interview survivors for a kind of oral history . The poem became a rallying cry against the tsar and the Russian Empire , and , eventually , for Jewish national pride . Inspired by Bialik 's words , many Russian Jews left for Europe , the United States , and Palestine . <p> Get up and walk through the city of the massacreAnd with your hand touch and lock your eyesOn the cooled brain and clots of bloodDried on tree trunks , rocks , and fences ; it is they.Go to the ruins , to the gaping breaches . <p> Forty-nine Jews were massacred by the mob in Kishinev . It is hard to know what the fourteen hundred killed in a single day in Otef Aza will mean . Unlike the Jews in the Pale , Israel is hardly defenseless . But it is vulnerable , and it was plain that this massacre would influence the collective psyche -- and the politics -- of Israel for years to come . <p> A week after the events of October 7th , an Israeli journalist and friend arranged for us to travel about an hour south from Tel Aviv to Kibbutz Kfar Aza . Once we passed the coastal cities of Ashdod and Ashkelon , we veered east , away from Gaza and into an area heavily guarded by I.D.F. soldiers . In the fields near Gaza , troops , tanks , and armored personnel had started to establish positions for the planned ground invasion . <p> An I.D.F. press officer gave us bulletproof vests and Kevlar helmets . There had been no exchanges of gunfire in a few days , no evidence that Hamas fighters remained in the area , but an officer cautioned , " This is an active scene . " Founded in 1951 , Kfar Aza was a prosperous kibbutz with two businesses on the site , one that made a dye for plastics , another that provided lighting and sound systems for events . Around seven hundred and fifty people lived there , with kindergartens , a gym , a swimming pool , and a cemetery . Now most of the houses were bullet-pocked ruins , caved in , blown up , torched . Earlier that day , the grounds had been cleared of the last cadavers , but the stench of death lingered . We were told there had been so many corpses , often burned or mutilated , that the young I.D.F. soldiers could not bear the work and called in Zaka , an organization of religious volunteers who , with meticulous care , collect bodies , body parts , and even blood , and give the dead a proper burial according to Jewish law . I 'd seen a video in which a volunteer poured cold water on one of the burned corpses . I asked why . To cool it off , I was told , so that when it is placed in a plastic collection bag the bag does n't melt . <p> " One of these dollars is the first dollar I ever made . Choose carefully , and you will become C.E.O . " <p> Cartoon by Ngozi Ukazu <p> Link copied <p> One of our guides was Golan Vach , a reserve colonel in the I.D.F. 's Home Front Command search-and-rescue unit . In a long career , he had gone on missions in the wake of all manner of disasters , in Haiti , Brazil , the Philippines , and Surfside , Florida . In February , following the earthquake in southern Turkey that left more than forty-five thousand dead , Vach and his team pulled nineteen people from the rubble , and received a commendation from the President , Recep Tayyip Erdogan . Vach , a lithe , purposeful man in his late forties , led us from house to ruined house , describing the battles fought by local security , soldiers , and police who , though under-armed and outmanned , had raced to Kfar Aza and rescued whomever they could until the Army arrived in force . That took many agonizing hours , and , for long periods , the Hamas fighters were able to take their time , killing , burning , collecting hostages . <p> Vach led us into one ruin and described two women who 'd been found there , both naked , their hands bound behind their backs , shot in the head . Elsewhere , he said , he had found butcher knives , a decapitated soldier . He pointed to scraps of Hamas gear on the ground : a singed Kalashnikov clip , an abandoned battle vest , a paraglider . He was getting accustomed to questions about a dead baby he had carried out of a house . " People ask me why I did n't take a picture , " he said . " I said , ' I 'm sorry , I , too , have my limits . ' " <p> Then , unprompted , he took out his phone and started showing me photographs he did take , one corpse after another . " Wait , " he said , swiping . " You will see the pile . They brought gasoline with them . Their intention was to burn . " <p> In some parts of the world , I said , people will say it 's all fake , it 's all hasbara , government propaganda . Vach looked at me unblinking . " Some people say that the Holocaust did n't exist , right ? How do you respond to such people ? " he said . " I have pictures . But unless those people will be here and see with their own eyes , I guess they will not believe . But these people also , if they would see it with their own eyes , they would say that we faked the situation . So it does n't matter . " His shoulders slumped . His hands slapped to his sides , and he looked around once more at the ruins . " This is evil . " In the near distance , from Gaza , we could hear rockets , Iron Dome interceptions , and Israeli jets . <p> Most of the evacuees from Kfar Aza were taken to a hotel on the grounds of Kibbutz Shefayim , on the Mediterranean coast , north of Tel Aviv . I arrived one afternoon to see yet another mass shiva -- a sombre picnic taking place on the lawn , families huddled together , eating , carefully eying their kids kicking a soccer ball , playing tag . <p> Inside , in a conference room off the lobby , a woman from Kfar Aza named Yael Felus had helped set up what she called a " war room . " A dozen people were there , working phones and laptops , to arrange psychiatric care , to organize buses for funerals , to distribute clothes and food . Felus had grown up in Sderot , a coastal city about a half mile from Gaza . " I needed a quieter place , " she told me . " So I went to Kfar Aza . It seemed like a good place to raise my kids . " Now , she said , she would go back only " if they flatten Gaza and they go to live in Egypt . " She knew how that sounded and did n't seem to care . How could she go back ? Before sending me to meet survivors from the kibbutz who were milling around the lobby , she said , " Most of my friends are dead . " She tried to count them all on her fingers , then gave up . <p> I met a woman named Roni Stahl Lupo , who was born at Kfar Aza in 1972 ; she knew nearly everyone who had died there . She , too , could not give an accurate count . She and her husband have three children and run a small business , designing industrial kitchens . Her sister , Ziv Stahl , is the executive director of Yesh Din ( There Is Law ) , a human-rights group . Her family had barely escaped Kfar Aza alive . Before her daughter and her boyfriend fled the kibbutz grounds , Hamas gunmen shot at them , hitting the boyfriend twice in the hand . Lupo had lived through countless rocket attacks over the years , but now she was unsure whether she would stay in Israel at all . <p> " During the demonstrations against this government , I began to feel that I 'm no longer part of the majority of this country , " she said . " Morally , socially , this is not my Israel . I 'm left-wing , Ashkenazi , a kibbutznik , and secular , and this is not the identity of Israel any longer . My contract with this country is over . It 's broken . " <p> She was both enraged at Hamas and deeply anxious about the bombing of Gaza and the ground incursion taking shape near her old home . " I keep thinking that these operations will happen because of me , someone will be killed because of me , " she said . " And I can not live with that . " <p> One morning , I visited Sari Nusseibeh , in East Jerusalem . A scholar of early Islamic philosophy who had been an informal adviser to Yasir Arafat , Nusseibeh was born in Damascus and lives in Sheikh Jarrah , a Jerusalem neighborhood that has been under assault and encroachment by settlers and the Israeli government for years . His family is distinguished in the extreme . For centuries , the Nusseibehs have been Muslim custodians of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre , in the Old City . Nusseibeh 's father , Anwar , was the governor of Jerusalem and Amman 's Ambassador to the Court of St. James 's . Nusseibeh , who is seventy-four , has always been a distinctly moderate voice in Palestinian public life , with friends all over the scholarly world . He is uncompromising in his insistence on Palestinian rights , and , in his books , he evinces sympathy with Jewish history and Israeli anxiety . At the same time , his disapproval of violence -- whether perpetrated by Israeli settlers or Palestinian suicide bombers -- is absolute . <p> Nusseibeh 's weariness and apprehension as we sat down were palpable . " We have made so many advances -- in technology , A.I. , medicine , everything except human relations , " he said . " I knew there would be constant explosions for as many years as it takes for people to finally learn that there has to be another way , but not a confrontation like this . " He shrugged . " No matter what , we will end up where we started , with the Palestinians and the Israelis living here together and needing to find a proper formula . " <p> On the morning of October 7th , Nusseibeh had just returned home from dropping off his wife and his daughter at the airport when he heard sirens . " My first reaction was ' Hmm , interesting . ' This happens every now and again , but then there were more sirens , then thuds , and the house actually shook . I thought , This might be serious . " <p> At first , he sensed great pride among many in his East Jerusalem community as the news broke . Palestinians on motorcycles , in pickup trucks , and on hang gliders had managed something that not even foreign armies had done . In 1973 , the Egyptian Army surprised Israel in the western Sinai and the Syrians wiped out Israeli tanks in the Golan Heights , but , for the most part , they did not get close to Israeli population centers . Many Palestinians initially celebrated the Hamas attack as a blow to Israel 's sense of invulnerability . But then , as the evidence of atrocities became common knowledge , Nusseibeh said , that elation curdled . Some even spoke of the incursion as a conspiracy , a guarantee that Israel would now turn so far to the right that the Palestinians would never get statehood . The images were shocking . One detail that struck Nusseibeh was more banal : ordinary Gazans trailing the armed terrorists into Israel and looting . In one video , I saw a Gazan calmly walking with a guitar he had stolen ; others took flat-screen TVs and carried them back into Gaza . " It 's like in the wars in the Middle Ages , " Nusseibeh said . " People come behind the fighting to steal . " <p> In the Nuseirat market , in the Gaza Strip , people sell vegetables near buildings destroyed by Israeli air strikes . Amid Israel 's siege on Gaza , food and water are in short supply.Photograph by Samar Abu Elouf / NYT / Redux <p> He despairs at the spectacle of bloodlust , the ecstasies of killing . But he is also convinced that Hamas and violent extremism , in general , will not recede without a political resolution . " It 's a mistake to think that Hamas is an alien being -- it is part of the national tapestry , " he said . " It grows bigger or smaller depending on other factors . You can eliminate the guys running Hamas now , but you can not eliminate it entirely . It will stay as a way of thinking , as an idea , so long as there is a Palestinian-Israeli conflict . " He went on , " People say there is more support for Hamas in the West Bank than in Gaza and the reverse is true in Gaza , that there is more support for the P.A. And it has to do with governance . " In fact , a survey taken shortly before the October 7th attack showed widespread disaffection with Hamas among Gazans . Both entities are riddled with corruption and plagued by a lack of basic competence . And they were crippled , above all , by the circumstances of occupation and siege . The P.A. was no more capable of taking care of the needs of Ramallah and Jenin , Nusseibeh argued , than Hamas was able to cope with the burdens of daily life in Rafah , Khan Yunis , and Gaza City . <p> Before we went our separate ways , Nusseibeh said he thought that Arab rulers , despite it all , had no taste for a multifront war , one that might pull in the United States . This was not the mid-century , when many Arab leaders still thought of Israel as temporary . But he was hardly optimistic -- not in the short run , anyway . " I think people are crazy , " he told me . " Especially people in positions of power . They are crazier than the average person and can easily lead populations to war . " <p> On August 10 , 2006 , three Israeli novelists -- David Grossman , Amos Oz , and A. B. Yehoshua -- called on the Israeli government to accept a ceasefire proposal to end the Second Lebanon War . Two days later , Grossman 's son Uri , a twenty-year-old staff sergeant in an Israeli tank brigade , was killed in a battle with Hezbollah . Grossman had been a peace activist for much of his adult life , speaking at demonstrations and publishing essays , alternately fierce and soulful , that were intended to pierce the indifference of his compatriots . " The Yellow Wind , " from 1987 , was a collection of reported essays about the occupation ( some of them published in these pages ) which startled Israeli readers . When it was uncommon to do so , Grossman visited refugee camps and classrooms in the West Bank . While reporting on proceedings against Palestinians in an Israeli military court in Nablus , Grossman quoted the essay " Shooting an Elephant , " in which George Orwell wrote of an imperial police officer in Burma , " He wears a mask , and his face grows to fit it . " The theme is common to both writers : in enforcing injustice , the colonist deceives , and destroys , himself . " To the End of the Land , " a 2008 novel imbued with the loss of Grossman 's son , is his masterpiece . I asked Grossman , who lives in Mevaseret Zion , in the hills outside Jerusalem , about his reaction to the events of October 7th . <p> " Of course , we felt something was wrong with the whole management of the country , " he said . " We felt that our Prime Minister invests all his time in his trials and does n't have enough time to take care of the country . But no one could anticipate this . " He went on , " We saw a process that could have led to Hamas taking over Tel Aviv . We do n't ever want to think about catastrophe , but thinking about catastrophe is my profession , and we were very close to that . I will tell you frankly , when I am confronted with such evil , pure evil , I do n't want to live in such a world that allows such monstrosities . Just to be exposed to such things , to see the murder of children , women , pregnant women , babies -- it is impossible to absorb it . The fifty-six years of occupation is terrible . I 've spent my entire life writing and acting against it , and I see some friends at American universities and elsewhere trying to achieve some sort of balance . But evils can not always be compared . Sometimes , I tell my friends , objectivity is a nice way to cover up cowardice , to say , ' We are bad and they are bad . ' By doing so , you spare yourself , you refuse to expose yourself to the atrocities in front of you . " <p> " Nothing like travelling hundreds of miles to immerse yourself in art for the sole purpose of killing time between meals . " <p> Cartoon by Sarah Kempa <p> Link copied <p> We spoke of the Palestinians who argued that they had been forgotten . " First of all , they are right , " Grossman said . " And yet there is something in the joy of killing , it just feels different . Hamas made a major mistake in 2005 , when we evacuated . Around ten thousand settlers were uprooted . If , after our withdrawal , the Palestinians had started to build in Gaza using the financial support they were promised , if they had made Gaza a kind of test case on how to build a life again , if Gaza had become , if not the ' Singapore of the Middle East , ' then at least a place where life could be developed , the next withdrawal would have come quickly . Instead , they chose another path . There were thousands of missiles aimed at us from Gaza in the next two years . And now , after they have done this , you start to think , Well , if you have such a neighbor , you had better be well equipped and suspicious all the time . " <p> In his view , the prospects for Israel , which just celebrated its seventy-fifth anniversary of existence , were grave . " I think the task of being an Israeli will be harder now , " he said . " The need to protect this country will be an even more serious issue . We thought this was all behind us after signing agreements with various Arab countries and the Abraham Accords . But you can not have an Abraham Accord and ignore the Palestinians . We shall see now how exhausting it is to be an Israeli , to be all the time on the alert for surprise and violence . Once more , we will have to be both Athens and Sparta . We will try to be tolerant and decent to our neighbors , not racist but pluralist , liberal , yet at the same time very tough militarily . " <p> In reality , Grossman knew , the political temper of the country was likely to grow increasingly distant from his view of the world . " I guess that Israel will become more and more right-wing , more and more religious , " he went on . " Jewish identity will be narrowed to self-defense . There will be more and more adoration of the Army , even though the Army has failed . My cry out to my Prime Minister is this : You have Israel in your hands , this precious thing . You are responsible for this unique country . If this country fails , will history be generous again ? " <p> Sam Bahour is an American-born Palestinian who moved from Ohio to the West Bank in the wake of the Oslo Accords , a generation ago . Thinking he was building a future state , he helped establish the Palestine Telecommunications Company , travelling frequently between the West Bank and Gaza . He lives in Al-Bireh , the West Bank town his father came from , and when we spoke he was furious about the way that settler harassment and violence and seemingly random arrests of Palestinians were rising fast . " We turn on the radio every morning and we do n't hear about the weather , " he said . " We hear about arrests . " Even more alarming , there were reports that dozens of Palestinians in the West Bank had been killed since the Hamas attack , some by settlers . <p> For Bahour , there was nothing utopian about demanding a political solution ; it was only its denial that was impractical , as well as unjust . " We do n't ask for the moon , " he said . " We ask for a military occupation of fifty-six years to end . My fear is that this round , as much as it 's doing tremendous damage , physical damage , to Gaza and to the people of Gaza , it is also exposing the hypocrisy of the West and the international community . And , if we go on doing that , it 's a free-for-all . " <p> In the West Bank and elsewhere , Bahour told me , " all the attention now is focussed on stopping the bombing in a small , intensely overcrowded place that is fifty per cent children . The entire civilian infrastructure is being torn up . I do n't know how anyone -- an Israeli or a Jewish American or anyone -- thinks this assault will make Israel safer . They are doing just the opposite . Ironically , what Hamas did could have the effect of saving Netanyahu , of keeping him in power . Everyone knows that the day that this war stops he will be out of government . So now he is someone with nothing to lose , much like the people in Gaza . And people with nothing to lose lash out . " <p> At the Shura Military Base , in Israel , the bodies of victims of the October 7th attacks are still being identified.Photograph by Peter van Agtmael / Magnum for The New Yorker <p> The scenes of Hamas fighters standing in triumph over the dead , taking selfies and shouting " Allahu akbar ! , " recalled , for some , Frantz Fanon 's line that " the colonized is the persecuted person who is always dreaming of becoming the persecutor . " Now those scenes were giving way to scenes of a devastated Gaza . Like Nusseibeh , and like Grossman , too , Bahour was unequivocally opposed to the killing of civilians . At the same time , he said , " we have to be wise , wise enough to hold multiple thoughts in our heads . There is the thought that Gazans would breach the fence and break out of their open-air prison -- that is one thing . But it is another thing that they went into villages and killed civilians the way they did . It is a horrific act and must be condemned . But I also ca n't just have a knee-jerk reaction and think this is a story that started October 7th . " <p> The task of holding in one 's head multiple thoughts -- multiple facts -- was nearly impossible , particularly in the face of sloganeering and the allure of militancy . There is the thought that Israeli settlers , many of them armed , have stepped up their daily violence against Palestinian villagers , egged on by ministers in the Netanyahu government . That , though Israel is well armed and has powerful allies , it is also the size of New Jersey and faces multiple enemies -- Hamas , Hezbollah , and Iran -- whose leaders speak regularly of the elimination of " the Zionist entity . " That the unemployment rate in Gaza is forty-five per cent , the water barely potable , electricity and food in short supply , the health-care system in ruins . That antisemitism has , yet again , grown in breadth , intensity , and violence . That contempt for Palestinians is practically a norm in the current Israeli government , as when Smotrich , the finance minister , spoke at a memorial service in France and , standing in front of a map with Gaza , the West Bank , and Jordan melded into " Greater Israel , " declared , " There is no Palestinian history , " or when Ben-Gvir , the national-security minister , told journalists , " My right , my wife 's , my children 's , to roam the roads of Judea and Samaria are more important than the right of movement of the Arabs . " That many thousands of Palestinians have already been killed in the recent air strikes and well over a million have been internally displaced . There will be no end to it anytime soon : the funerals , the recriminations , the threats , the fear , the assaults . <p> There was also the grim fact that Hamas had , in the most brutal fashion , shattered the illusion that a state could provide Israelis the guarantee of security . As Yonit Levi , the news anchor of Channel 12 put it to me , " Every single Jewish nightmare came true . " And so what would come in return ? The air strikes on Gaza were proceeding at an unprecedented pace every night -- lethal and incessant -- and a ground incursion could lead to a hellscape of urban warfare , another Fallujah . It was a familiar nightmare , reminiscent of what followed 9/11 , in which a stronger nation pursues a policy that , while trying to defeat an enemy for carrying out an unspeakable massacre , kills countless civilians and ultimately inflicts untold and lasting damage on itself . <p> The day after my visit to Kfar Aza , I took a cab to the town of Gan Yavne , twenty miles from Gaza , to attend the funeral of all five members of the Kutz family . Livnat and Aviv Kutz had been found dead together on a bed with their children , Rotem , Yonatan , and Yiftach . Throughout Israel , everyone seemed to know the story , that they had been discovered in a kind of final family embrace . Few knew that , over the wall , in Khan Yunis , nine members of the al-Bashiti family were reported to have been killed in an air strike . Killing was the common condition . <p> At Gan Yavne , mourners stared at the five graves , deep and sharply dug . As people gathered under and around the perimeter of a white tent that blocked the hard afternoon sun , a volunteer from Zaka , a man of astonishing industry and fitness , kept hopping in and out of the graves , preparing them , lining up sacks of dirt , ordering things according to Jewish law . Pressing forward to get a little closer to the service , I spotted Mia Kraus , a teen-ager and an evacuee from Kfar Aza whom I 'd spoken with at Kibbutz Shefayim . I reintroduced myself . " I remember you , " she said shyly . Like everyone at Kfar Aza , she knew the Kutz family well . <p> More teen-agers from the kibbutz squeezed past the surrounding headstones and gathered tightly together , arm in arm with Mia in the first row behind the family 's relatives . Her mind was here and there : one of her friends was kidnapped and later found dead . Mia was sixteen , the same age , I recalled , that the poet Mosab Abu Toha had been when he was nearly killed on the streets of Gaza . In Mosab 's poem " The Wounds , " he writes : <p> If , when the rocket fell , I had moved my head a bitto watch a bird on a tree or to countthe clouds coming from the west side , the shrapnel might have cut through my throat.I would n't be married to my wife , father of three kids , one born in America . . . . I look around me , relatives circle my bed.I watch them as they chat . I imagine them praying round my coffin . <p> The funeral service began . When Mia and I had spoken at Kibbutz Shefayim , she told me that she could no longer be in a room with the door closed , not even the bathroom . It brought back the memory of hiding in her house for twenty hours with Hamas gunmen outside her door . Through a partially open window , she could hear their conversations . Somehow , the gunmen never came in . Her family survived . Yet she regularly found herself overtaken by crippling waves of fear . <p> The coffins were carried in and the names were read : one by one by one by one by one . At first , there was silence , but now a great communal lamentation convulsed the assembled . I have never heard such weeping as I did that afternoon . There would be many more funerals to come , many more convulsions of grief . But the sounds of lamentation never carry as far as those of rockets , missiles , artillery , bombs . As I was finishing this piece , Mosab messaged me , describing the nightly bombings in his neighborhood . A ground assault was imminent . " Any moment I may not be in this world , " he said . ? <p> David Remnick has been the editor of The New Yorker since 1998 and a staff writer since 1992 . He is the author of seven books ; the most recent is " Holding the Note , " a collection of his profiles of musicians . <h> Weekly <p> Your guide to the latest magazine and our biggest stories of the week , plus highlights from podcasts , humor , and more .
