<p> An investigation conducted by Amnesty International has revealed the impacts on Israel 's offensive on Gaza <p> Amnesty International 's research on the Israel-Gaza conflict has found sufficient basis to conclude that Israel is continuing to commit genocide against Palestinians in the occupied Gaza Strip . <p> A new report has named the war as a genocide , based on criteria constituting considering factors of unprecedented scale and magnitude , intent to destroy , killing and causing serious bodily or mental harm and inflicting conditions of life calculated to bring about physical destruction <p> The report details extensive destruction inflicted upon Palestinians in Gaza following the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks , characterising Israel 's military response as unrestrained and without accountability . <p> Agn ? s Callamard , Secretary General of Amnesty International says , " Amnesty International 's report demonstrates that Israel has carried out acts prohibited under the Genocide Convention , with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza ... Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them . <h> Advertisement <p> " Our damning findings must serve as a wake-up call to the international community : this is genocide . It must stop now . " <p> According to the report , by October 7 , 2024 , Israel 's military operation resulted in the deaths of over 42,000 Palestinians , over 13,300 of whom were children , as well injuries to more than 97,000 individuals . <p> The destruction wrought is unprecedented in scale and speed , exceeding any other 21st-century conflict , as evidenced by the devastation of entire cities , critical infrastructure , agricultural lands , and sites of cultural and religious significance . It thereby rendered large swathes of Gaza uninhabitable . <p> Mohammed , a 42-year-old father of three fled Gaza City with his family to Rafah in March 2024 , and was displaced again in May . He spoke in June 2024 about his experience of displacement from Rafah to Deir al-Balah governorate . <p> " Here in Deir al-Balah , it 's like an apocalypse ... You have to protect your children from insects , from the heat , and there is no clean water , no toilets , all while the bombing never stops . You feel like you are subhuman here " said Mohammed . <p> Agn ? s Callamard continued , " The atrocity crimes committed on 7 October 2023 by Hamas and other armed groups against Israelis and victims of other nationalities , including deliberate mass killings and hostage-taking , can never justify Israel 's genocide against Palestinians in Gaza . " <p> Amnesty International has urged the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court to investigate genocide following their issuing of arrest warrants for Benjamin Netanyahu , and has called for the UN Security Council to impose sanctions against Israel and Hamas officials .
