<h> Israeli forces kill at least 34 people in Gaza , rescue workers say <h> Recent signs of optimism among Israeli and Palestinian officials suggest potential progress in efforts to reach a ceasefire deal <p> Children lean over the balcony of an apartment next to a man checking the destruction after an Israeli strike in the Nuseirat camp in the central Gaza Strip . Photograph : Eyad Baba/AFP via Getty Images <p> Tue Dec 10 2024 - 19:03 <p> Israeli strikes across the Gaza Strip killed at least 34 Palestinians overnight and on Tuesday , medics said , as Israeli tanks pushed into areas in central and southern parts of the enclave . <p> An Israeli air strike killed at least 25 people in Beit Hanoun in northern Gaza , where Israeli forces have operated since October , and injured dozens of others in a multi-floored building , medics said . <p> The Palestinian Civil Emergency Service said most of those killed were from the same family , including women and children . Images posted online , which Reuters could n't immediately verify , showed the bodies lined up in a single mass grave in the town . <p> Another air strike on a house in the Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza killed at least seven people . It wounded several others , medics and the Palestinian Civil Emergency Service said , while another killed two people in Rafah south of the enclave . <p> In Deir Al-Balah near the coast , Israeli naval forces detained six Palestinian fishermen who tried to sail into the Mediterranean Sea earlier on Tuesday , according to residents . <p> Gunmen led by the Palestinian militant group Hamas killed 1,200 people and took more than 250 hostages back to Gaza when they attacked Israel on October 7th , 2023 , according to Israeli tallies . More than 44,700 Palestinians have been killed in the 14-month-old Israeli military campaign on Gaza that has followed , Gaza health authorities in the Hamas-run enclave say . <p> Ceasefire efforts by Arab mediators Egypt and Qatar , backed by the United States , have failed to find agreement , but recent signs of optimism among Israeli and Palestinian officials have suggested a deal to end the war could be closer . <p> On Monday night , Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu said Hamas 's increasing isolation after the downfall of Syria 's Bashar al-Assad could open the door to a deal to return hostages , but it was too early to say if efforts would succeed . <p> On Tuesday , a Hamas official declined to disclose the content of negotiations but said mediators had recently stepped up their efforts , citing the group 's willingness to show the flexibility needed " to end the aggression on our people " . <p> A Palestinian official with knowledge of the mediation effort said Hamas had asked other Gaza factions to list the names of Israeli and foreign hostages in their custody , whether dead or alive , signalling potential progress in the talks . <p> Hamas wants a deal that ends the war and sees the release of Israeli and foreign hostages held captive in Gaza as well as Palestinians jailed by Israel , while Mr Netanyahu has vowed the war can end only once Hamas is eradicated . -- Reuters
