<h> US Chamber of Commerce raised concerns with Irish Government about the Occupied Territories Bill <p> Taoiseach Simon Harris : ' You know what I think is reprehensible ? Seeing the scale of civilian deaths that we 've seen in Gaza . You know what I think is reprehensible ? People being left to starve and humanitarian aid not flowing . ' Photograph : Stephen Collins/Collins Photos <p> Mr Harris on Monday night pushed back against Israeli charges of anti-Semitism , with Government Buildings describing them as " personalised and false attacks " , and saying that the Taoiseach " remains focused on the horrific war crimes being perpetrated in Gaza , standing up for human rights and international law , and reflecting the views of so many people across Ireland who are so concerned at the loss of innocent civilian lives " . <p> Israeli foreign minister Gideon Saar had earlier described the Taoiseach as " Ireland 's anti-Semitic prime minister Simon Harris " while defending Israel 's decision to close its embassy in Dublin in protest at what it described as the anti-Israel policies of the Irish Government . <p> But a senior Government source said that the attack on Mr Harris , and the move to close the Israeli embassy in Dublin , were part of a strategy to distract attention from growing criticism of Israel 's actions in the week of an EU summit , as well as the corruption trial of Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu . <p> The latest exchanges come as the Department of Enterprise confirmed the US Chamber of Commerce , the largest business group in the US , raised the Occupied Territories Bill during talks with the Government in Dublin last week . <p> A spokeswoman for the department said that a delegation from the Washington-based lobbying group " raised the Occupied Territories Bill , and Minister ( for Enterprise Peter ) Burke and his officials noted same " . <p> There has been speculation that Ireland 's stance on the Gaza war may prompt potential economic headwinds for the State , with many US multinationals invested here supportive of Israel . <p> Israel 's ambassador to Ireland , Dana Erlich , said on Monday that if the legislation was enacted no US companies would be able to operate in Ireland . <p> Earlier Mr Harris responded to the Israeli decision to close its embassy in Dublin , saying what was truly reprehensible was the scale of the killing in Gaza , and the treatment of its entire population by the Israel Defense Forces . <p> " You know what I think is reprehensible ? Killing children , I think that 's reprehensible . You know what I think is reprehensible ? Seeing the scale of civilian deaths that we 've seen in Gaza . You know what I think is reprehensible ? People being left to starve and humanitarian aid not flowing . <p> " Ireland will continue to do what Ireland always does when it comes to foreign policy , stand up for human rights , stand up for international law . There 's nothing hostile about that . In fact I think the people of Ireland would be rather shocked if Ireland 's foreign policy was n't founded on the principles of supporting international law , supporting the work of international courts and supporting human rights , " he said . <p> " We condemn all attacks on Israel . We say Israel has a right to live in peace and security , and a right to defend itself . You can say all of those things and still say the next thing , which is that what the Netanyahu government is doing to innocent civilians in Gaza and in the West Bank is utterly despicable and should be condemned by all . " <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
