<p> Taoiseach Simon Harris has said he would be hopeful legislation to ban trade with illegal Israeli settlements would be passed within the first year of the next government . <p> The Occupied Territories Bill was put forward by the Opposition in 2018 but was blocked for years by the Government over concerns it could fall foul of EU trade rules . In the weeks before the general election , the Government committed to supporting a reworked version of the legislation . <p> Speaking on Thursday in Brussels , Mr Harris said he hoped the law would be passed by the Oireachtas next year . " I think that pretty much all parties in the general election committed to passing the Occupied Territories Bill , or a form of the Occupied Territories Bill , " he said . " This is something I would like to see happen and I would like to see it happen in the first year of the government , " he said . <p> Independent Senator Frances Black , who originally introduced the draft law , had been a " very honourable interlocutor " in working with all parties on the text , he said . <p> The Fine Gael leader said comments by Israel 's foreign minister accusing him of anti-Semitism were made to " distract " from the deaths of tens of thousands of children during Israel 's war in Gaza . <p> " What it wo n't do is deter us , wo n't deter me personally , and wo n't deter this Irish Government or the next Irish government from continuing to speak up and speak out in favour of international law , " he said . " I 'm passionate about Europe , but we 're not doing enough . We 're not doing nearly enough to end the conflict , " he said . <p> Ireland 's long-standing position in support of Palestine and international law should not come as " any surprise " to US businesses or others , he said . Mr Harris was in Brussels to attend a summit with other leaders of EU states . <p> Mr Harris would not be drawn on speculation that he would become minister for foreign affairs in the next government . Talks are ongoing between Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael , as well as a group of Independents , with a view to putting together a coalition government . <p> " I believe it is possible for Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael to put together , with others , a stable government that can deliver five budgets , " Mr Harris said . <p> People did not want government formation talks to descend into lengthy " navel gazing " among politicians . He said it was his hope a coalition agreement would be struck in January . <p> In light of Donald Trump 's election as president in the United States , Europe needed to do an " awful lot more " to make sure it was economically competitive , Mr Harris said . " I think we have to control what we can control , both from a European Union perspective and from an Irish perspective , " he said . <p> He indicated the Government will seek to play on the number of jobs Irish companies create in the US , in an attempt to address Mr Trump 's concerns about the large presence of US companies in Ireland . <p> EU leaders are expected to speak about what more can be done to support Ukraine in its war against Russia , with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy travelling to take part in the discussion . <p> Russia 's bombing of energy infrastructure was a despicable and " inhumane " attempt to freeze the Ukrainian population and leave them in darkness over the winter , Mr Harris said . <p> Talk of EU countries posting peacekeeping troops to Ukraine in the event of a settlement in the conflict was " premature " , given there was " no indication " Russia wanted to move towards peace , he said . " That 's perhaps a conversation for another day . It 'd be wonderful to get to the point where we can talk about how we maintain the peace rather than how we end the war , " he said . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
