<p> While there are tentative hopes of a ceasefire ( before American President , Joe Biden leaves office ) , there 's little in the way of respite for the residents of Gaza . Responding to an attack on October 7th , 2023 , the IDF ( Israeli Defence Forces ) have succeeded in bombing this tiny strip of land back into the Stone Age -- conservative estimates put the numbers killed at 40,000 plus -- it 's probably much more . There are no figures for those injured . <p> Ironically , many of those directly involved in the October 7th attack have literally ' gone to ground ' -- comparatively safe in a vast underground network of tunnels , where Palestinian militants continue to hold large numbers Israeli hostages . Those above grounds ( non combatants -- men , women and children ) have taken the brunt of Israel 's devastating bombing campaign . <h> COMPELLED TO ACT IN BALLYPOREEN <p> There are few who are n't moved by the plight of those in Gaza . However , a small group of women in Ballyporeen were moved to act and using their own initiative , they commenced a fundraising campaign to assist ' the children of Gaza ' . Adopting nothing more sophisticated than ' selling lines ' ( ? 5 each ) , they went door to door and shop to shop , promoting their project . The response was immediate and card after card was filled . All these cards ended up in Ballyporeen Community Centre last Sunday , where the draw took place . <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience . We 'll assume you 're ok with this , but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptRead More <p> Privacy &amp; Cookies Policy <h> Privacy Overview <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website . Out of these , the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website . We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website . These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent . You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies . But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience . <p> Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly . This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website . These cookies do not store any personal information . <p> Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics , ads , other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies . It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
