<p> A few weeks ago , I interviewed the historian Rashid Khalidi . Khalidi , who recently retired as professor of Modern Arab Studies in Columbia University 's history department , is a pre-eminent Arab-American intellectual , and has for many years been one of the most vocal critics of America 's involvement in the conflict between Israel and Palestine . <p> The conversation , which appears in the current issue of The New York Review of Books , focused on Israel 's ongoing assault on Gaza , and on the world 's response to it . ( Since October 7th , 2023 , Khalidi 's excellent book The Hundred Years ' War on Palestine has rarely been out of the New York Times bestseller list . A couple of days after our conversation was published online , President Joe Biden was photographed walking out of a book shop on Nantucket Island with a copy of it under his arm -- a turn of events that seemed to anger supporters of Israel and Palestine about equally . ) <p> In 2022 , Khalidi was a visiting fellow at Trinity College 's Long Room Hub , where he researched parallels in the colonial administrations of Palestine and Ireland , and the ways in which Ireland served as a laboratory for the kinds of settler-colonial practices the British state went on to export to Palestine . In our conversation , we touched on the subject of Ireland 's unusual status within Europe , and the West more generally , as a country whose population is largely supportive of the Palestinian cause -- a support that is furthermore reflected , in a watered down form , by the foreign policy positions of its government . <p> I told Khalidi that it made sense that , given our history , Irish people might be broadly sympathetic toward the Palestinian cause . What made less intuitive sense to me , I said , was that such a cultural memory of colonisation -- the knowledge that atrocities took place in your own country at the hands of a foreign occupying power -- might be some kind of necessary condition for understanding that similar atrocities occurring today are also wrong . I got the impression that Khalidi , despite his expertise in colonial history and his years of political activism on behalf of the Palestinian cause , was also a little mystified by it . As the country with the longest colonial experience , Ireland , he acknowledged , was a " special case " ; that such extraordinary historical conditions might be a requirement for basic morality did not seem so easily explicable . <p> One partial explanation might be that that colonial history is not simply history -- as though history could ever be " simple " . The civil rights struggle in the North , the Bloody Sunday massacre , the long years of brutal paramilitary violence on both sides : all of these things remain comfortably -- or , more accurately , uncomfortably -- within living memory . My own grandfather was born a British subject , in Co Kilkenny . The past is never dead , as William Faulkner put it . It 's not even past . <p> In any case , the mystery is not why we Irish have responded as we have to Israel 's barbarism . ( Do you need me to provide the numbers of the dead here , and of the missing ? Do you need me to detail the ongoing horror and depravity , the children shot by snipers , the starvation policies , the systematic destruction of civilian life and infrastructure in Gaza ? ) The mystery is why the strength of that response is unmatched , with the exception of Spain and Norway , by our fellow European countries . <p> That our country -- its people , and its political establishment -- is making its voice heard above the deafening silence of most other western nations is something of which we can , for now , be proud <p> No intellectually or morally serious person could view this claim with anything other than contempt ; it reflects a grotesque effort , by a state on whose prime minister the International Criminal Court has placed an arrest warrant for alleged war crimes , to smear anyone who dares point out the obvious . And this , in turn , reflects a grim historical irony of our era : the global norms in which criticisms of Israel 's slaughter in Gaza are based exist because of the recognition of the lethal danger of anti-Semitism , and of the Shoah as a crime that must never again be countenanced . That edifice of global norms ( international law , human rights ) , built in the aftermath of the second World War and the Holocaust , is now collapsing into smoking rubble in Gaza , buried beneath the silence and complicity of what used to be called " the international community " . <p> The President went on to say that , because of our history , Irish people have an intuitive understanding of concepts such as dispossession and occupation , and that this is why we stress the importance of international law . He 's right , of course , though it makes me wonder , again , why such a history would be necessary in order for a country and its people to understand such things . Why should Ireland be , as Khalidi put it , a special case ? Perhaps I flatter myself , but I 'd like to think that even if I were British , or American , or German , or Dutch , I would still be able to look at the campaign of slaughter and destruction Israel is waging , and see it for the moral outrage that it is . <p> It is a great shame that Ireland is a special case , but the shame is not Ireland 's . That our country -- its people , and its political establishment -- is making its voice heard above the deafening silence of most other western nations is something of which we can , for now , be proud . I do n't believe in the idea of being on the right side of history . The histories of the future are none of our concern . Our concern is the present . And our country is , in at least this one important sense , on the right side of it .
