<p> Israel 's invasive use of artificial intelligence in its military offensives in Palestine 's Gaza has long been documented , with various reports shedding light on the array of software tools employed by its forces . <p> Among these , " Lavender " stands out as a key system for generating targeting information . <p> A recent investigation by The Washington Post has provided new insights into how the targeting system has operated , leading to the targeting of tens of thousands of Gaza civilians as Hamas fighters . <p> The report has revealed that the Israeli military captured " real-time photos " of individuals in their homes to expedite the process of identifying those flagged by Lavender through " undisclosed methods " . <p> Custom-built facial recognition tools were then employed to cross-reference these images with existing data on suspected Hamas members in the Lavender database . <p> While the specific technical details of how Israeli forces spied into Palestinian homes to obtain these real-time images were kept secret by the interviewed Israeli soldiers , the report indicates that the Israeli military typically utilises a combination of surveillance technologies , including drones and other sensors , to capture live imagery . <p> For instance , Israel 's deployment of quadcopter drones , small unmanned aerial vehicles , has been reported not only for surveillance but also for direct attacks on individuals . <p> Reports indicate that these drones have also been equipped to drop explosive devices or fire upon Palestinians at close range , leading to civilian casualties . <p> In the next step , the images acquired through the " undisclosed methods " were cross-referenced with existing data in the Lavender database using custom-built facial recognition technology . <p> A soldier interviewed by the media outlet notes that some of these images included family members of suspected fighters , who were nonetheless deemed acceptable collateral damage by Israeli commanders . <p> The investigation also details one instance of the use of the software in decision-making processes for airstrikes , where Israeli forces deployed it to assess whether to proceed with the bombing of 50 buildings in northern Gaza . <p> The software worked by counting how many cellphones were active in the area and comparing that number to the total population estimate , the report says . If less than 25 percent of the population seemed to be there , the system gave the green light to go ahead with the bombing . <p> Critical variables such as powered-off phones , children without phones , or areas with poor signal coverage were completely overlooked , the report quoted anonymous Israeli soldiers as saying . <p> Lavender 's scoring system , which estimates the likelihood of individuals being affiliated with Hamas , has drawn heavy backlash for its reliance on criteria as trivial as frequent address changes , switching cellphones , or being part of a WhatsApp group with a group member . <p> According to earlier reports from +972 Magazine and Local Call , Lavender played a significant role in the unprecedented scale of airstrikes in Gaza , especially during the early phases of the conflict , having generated a list of approximately 37,000 bombing targets , including numerous low-level alleged Hamas operatives who might not ordinarily be prioritised in military attacks .
