<h> Editorial : Two Ongoing Wars And Not A Hope Of Ceasefire <p> Russia 's war against Ukraine began in February 2022 . And it is still spluttering along with both sides showing no sign of a truce . Again , the Israel 's war to exterminate Hamas , the Palestinian jihadi group , began last October . And it still remains unfinished . Despite several US-brokered ceasefire attempts , the end of armed hostilities in Gaza does not seem near . The good offices of the UN for precisely such troubled spots around the globe were rendered ineffective long ago , thanks largely to the intense tussle between the two super powers during the Cold War . After the cold war ended with the disintegration of the Soviet Union , the lone superpower by some distance messed up its role , frittering away much global goodwill besides trillions of dollars and tens of thousands of men in waging wars in West Asia with nary a clear objective in view . Meanwhile , its project to implant the democracy seed in China by facilitating her double-quick economic growth from a basket-case economy had now come to boomerang on it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a huge arsenal of nukes , it is China which is increasingly challenging the US both economically and militarily . The short point . However hard the US might want to be the sole anchor of the global order , China , with Russia playing the second fiddle , is unready to accept its hegemony in large swaths of the world . It is notable that the US now accuses China of helping Russia in the latter 's assault on Ukraine . Equally important to note that the Russian President Vladimir Putin particularly names China along with India and Brazil as parties he would trust to facilitate a peace formula to end the Ukraine war . Yeah , as if the US and the European Union without whom President Volodymyr Zelenskyy would have raised both hands in surrender within weeks off the Russian tanks rolling into Luhansk and Donetsk , would agree to these nations playing the peacemakers ! Two years later there is no end to the war . If the Russians make advances in the southeastern parts of Ukraine , the latter have now surprised the Goliath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first time enemy troops had set foot on Russian soil since the end of the Second War . Zelenskyy 's bravado still would not merit an affirmative answer to his plea to be allowed to attack deep inside Russia . The West fears a bigger conflagration . Neither Russia nor Ukraine 's puppeteers are in a position to call off hostilities fearing a loss of face . Even though the war is going nowhere two years after Putin started it on the ground that Ukraine 's increasing embrace of NATO posed a greater threat to Russia 's security . Putin has said that he was agreeable to peace talks should India , China or Brazil , together or separately , succeed in evolving a negotiating platform . How can Ukraine consider peace while Russia retains the occupied lands ? That will be a defeat not only for Ukraine but for the US and the EU . While there is a growing weariness in the West at the rising costs of bankrolling Ukraine , it is unlikely that even in the case of a second Trump presidency Zelenskyy could be thrown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Americans . While Ukrainians perforce may reconcile to live as second-class citizens yet again under the Russian yoke but the US will stand further diminished in the eyes of the world . In other words , only a miracle can result in halting the armed hostilities in Russia 's Ukraine war . For Putin , deaths of tens of thousands of Russians do not seem to matter . For Ukraine , it is defending its territorial integrity , giving her soldiers a worthy objective . Against all odds they have soldiered on willingly . <p> As for Israel 's attack on Gaza to avenge Hamas 's barbaric atrocity which caused killed 1200 , mainly civilian men , women and children on October 7 last year , despite President Biden 's repeated bids , a ceasefire appears elusive . It is extraordinary that everyone seems to impress on President Benjamin Netanyahu to call off the hostilities while no-one to our knowledge has asked Hamas to free the 100-odd hostages whom it still keeps in captivity to make the task of a ceasefire much easier . Last week bodies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a tunnel . A forensic examination revealed that they had been shot in the back of their heads hours before being found by the Israel troops . Last weeks , fears of the West Bank becoming another theater of active armed hostilities got stronger after Israel carried out raids to flush out a number of jihadis reportedly plotting another terrorist attack . In the near year-long war over 40,000 civilians have died , a large number of them women and children . Yet , Hamas would not consider giving up the remaining 100- odd hostages , some of them reportedly already killed , so that Netanyahu could be devoid of the reason for continuing the armed assault against Gaza . Without Iran sustaining the spigot of terror it will run dry . Without the West , Ukraine will crumble . Of course , there is no moral equivalence being argued in the two on-going wars . Just plain and painful facts on the bloodied ground in Ukraine and Gaza .
