<h> Israeli strike on humanitarian zone camp tent kills at least 19 <p> Deir al-Balah , Sep 10 : An Israeli strike on a crowded tent camp housing Palestinians displaced by the war in Gaza killed at least 19 people and wounded 60 early on Tuesday , Palestinian officials said . Israel said it targeted senior Hamas militants with precise munitions . The overnight strike hit Muwasi , a sprawl of crowded tent camps along the Gaza coast that Israel designated as a humanitarian zone for hundreds of thousands of civilians to seek shelter from the Israel-Hamas war . Gaza 's Health Ministry said it confirmed that at least 19 people were killed in the strike , and that the toll may rise as more bodies are recovered . The Civil Defence , first responders who operate under the Hamas-run government , had earlier said 40 people were killed . The Israeli military disputed that toll . The ministry is also part of the Hamas-run government but its figures are widely seen as generally reliable . It maintains detailed records and its tallies from previous wars have largely coincided with figures from independent researchers , the United Nations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Civil Defence did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the discrepancy of their tolls . Associated Press footage shows three large craters at the scene . First responders dug through the sand and rubble with garden tools and their bare hands , using mobile phone flashlights until the sun came up . They pulled body parts from the sand , including what appeared to be a human leg . " We were told to go to Muwasi , to the safe area ... Look around you and see this safe place , " said Iyad Hamed Madi , who had been sheltering there . " This is for my son , " he said , holding up a bag of diapers . " He 's 4 months old . Is he a fighter ? There 's no humanity . " One of three hospitals that took in casualties from the strike , Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis , said around two dozen bodies were brought in . An Associated Press cameraman saw 10 bodies in the hospital 's morgue , including two children and three women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a tornado , " Samar Moamer told the AP at the hospital , where she was being treated for injuries from the strike . She said one of her daughters was killed and the other was pulled alive from the rubble . The Israeli military said it had struck Hamas militants in a command-and-control centre embedded in the area . It identified three of the militants , saying they were senior operatives who were directly involved in the October 7 attack and other recent attacks against Israel and Israeli forces . Rear Adm . Daniel Hagari , an Israeli military spokesperson , disputed the initial reports of the number of casualties in a post on the platform X , saying they " do not line up with the information available to the ( Israeli army ) , the precise weapons used and the accuracy of the strike . " Hamas released a statement denying any militants were in the area , calling the Israeli allegations a " blatant lie . " Neither Israel nor Hamas provided evidence to substantiate their claims.Israeli forces likely unintentionally shot and killed American activist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American activist who was killed in the West Bank last week was likely shot " indirectly and unintentionally " by Israeli forces who were aiming at someone else . Aysenur Ezgi Eygi , a 26-year-old activist from Seattle who also held Turkish citizenship , was killed Friday following a demonstration against Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank , according to Jonathan Pollak , an Israeli protester who witnessed the shooting . The Israeli military said it " expresses its deepest regret " after its inquiry " found that it is highly likely that she was hit indirectly and unintentionally by ( Israeli army ) fire which was not aimed at her , but aimed at the key instigator of the riot . " Pollak said the shooting occurred about half an hour after clashes between Palestinians and Israeli forces had subsided . Eygi , a volunteer with the activist group International Solidarity Movement , was attending a weekly demonstration against settlement expansion that has been held for years and has often brought Israeli crackdowns and protester stone-throwing . The killing came amid a surge of violence in the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing Israeli raids , attacks by Palestinian militants on Israelis , attacks by Israeli settlers on Palestinians and heavier military crackdowns on Palestinian protests . More than 690 Palestinians have been killed , according to Palestinian health officials . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken condemned the killing as " unprovoked and unjustified " while speaking Tuesday at a news conference in London . " No one should be shot while attending a protest . In our judgement the Israeli Security Forces need to make some fundamental changes in the way they operate in the West Bank , " he said . The Palestinian Authority held a funeral procession for Eygi in the West Bank city of Nablus on Monday . Turkish authorities said they are working on repatriating her body to Turkey for burial in the Aegean coastal town of Didim , as per her family 's wishes . The deaths of American citizens in the West Bank have drawn international attention , such as the fatal shooting of a prominent Palestinian-American journalist , Shireen Abu Akleh , in 2022 in the Jenin refugee camp . Several independent investigations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined that Abu Akleh was likely killed by Israeli fire . Months later , the military said there was a " high probablility " one of its soldiers had mistakenly killed her but that no one would be punished . Earlier in 2022 , Israel 's military said it would punish a senior officer and remove two others from their posts over the death of Omar Assad , 78 , a Palestinian-American who was dragged from a car by Israeli troops , bound and blindfolded after being stopped at a checkpoint . ( AP ) <h> Follow us <h> About Us <p> The Shillong Times first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
