<h> Editorial : A theocrat 's sermons on democracy <p> By bracketing India along with Gaza and Myanmar while commenting on the purported " suffering " of Muslims , Iran 's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has demonstrated a shocking naivety and a delusional mindset . It is a cruel irony that the head of a theocratic and ultra-orthodox nation should be pontificating on the status of minorities in a democratic country with a robust Constitution that guarantees equal rights to citizens of all faiths . Khamenei 's formulation that Muslims across the world constitute a single identity is a deeply problematic idea that has no basis in a modern and secular world . His comments are totally misinformed and unacceptable to India . He would be better advised to look inwards at the track record of his own country in the treatment of its minorities and women . The world recently witnessed Tehran 's brutal oppression of nationwide protests by women fighting for their fundamental rights . Ironically , Khamenei 's sermons on Indian Muslims came on the second death anniversary of Mahsa Amini , a 22-year-old Iranian woman , who died in police custody for " improper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , with women leading anti-hijab protests . This is not the first time that Iran 's Supreme Leader has commented on the condition of Indian Muslims . He had voiced concern over the abrogation of Article 370 , ending special status to Jammu &amp; Kashmir in 2019 . The following year , Khamenei urged Indian authorities to " confront extremist Hindus " and " stop the massacre of Muslims " against the backdrop of the New Delhi riots . <p> Earlier in 2017 , in a speech on the occasion of Eid , he compared Kashmir to Bahrain and Yemen , asking the Muslim world to support people of these regions . These instances demonstrate a clear interference with India 's internal affairs . The latest comments came just before the first phase of the J&amp;K elections -- a region with a large Shia population . The timing raises questions about Iran 's intent to influence political sentiments in a region where it shares religious ties with the electorate . While these remarks may seem aligned with Iran 's broader geopolitical strategy , the underlying intent appears to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Muslim world , particularly among Shia communities , to counterbalance Sunni-dominated powers like Saudi Arabia . However , it is highly unlikely that Khamenei 's remarks will affect the larger India-Iran ties which have deepened over the years . As recently as in May , the two countries signed a long-term contract for the operation of the Shahid Beheshti Port terminal at Chabahar in Iran . This contract marks the first time India will take over the management of an overseas port . India and Iran have cultural relations dating back millennia . Both nations have shown pragmatism in maintaining relations even when diplomatic differences arise . Additionally , trade and connectivity define New Delhi 's ties with Tehran . In 2022-23 , India 's bilateral trade with Iran reached $2.33 billion .
