<h> Islam the Iranian Ayatollah style <p> K N Pandita Addressing a gathering of clerics in Tehran on Monday , Iranian supreme religious leader Ayatollah Khamenei talked about what he described as the " suffering " of Muslims in Gaza , Myanmar and India . We will not directly comment on the Ayatollah 's views on Gaza and Myanmar . But we shall focus on India , which has the second-largest Muslim population in the world . It is roughly three times that of Iran . Incidentally , the Indian Muslim community is not only a mix of various factions and schools of thought but is also spread over many states of the Indian Union . Therefore , an unsavoury remark by a responsible leader , with the potential of damaging otherwise friendly relations between the two countries , needs to be set right . Earlier also , the Ayatollah had issued a statement on Kashmir hurting the interests of India and the MEA had to caution the Iranian mission in New Delhi . The impression which the Iranian leader creates by issuing loose statements like this is that Iran has taken upon its shoulders the responsibility of speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an indirect challenge to T ? rkiye and Saudi Arabia who claim to have the final say on matters pertaining to Muslim ummah . India is a secular democracy and not a Hindu Republic , unlike the Islamic Republic of Iran . It is a large multi-cultural , multi-ethnic and multi-lingual society . Muslims are not the only religious minority in India though calling about 200 million-strong Indian Muslim community a minority is anachronistic . We have almost all religious denominations in our country , including Parsees -- the offspring of an ancient Zoroastrian community of Iran -- - hundreds of thousands of whom were forced to leave their country-of-origin as a result of religious persecution by the Muslim Arabs after the defeat of the last Zoroastrian King Yazdegerd III of the Sasanian dynasty . They came to Southern India where the local rulers gave them shelter and freedom of religious practices and of running their business . They were permitted to build dakhmah or the burial place of their dead and also raise the fire-worshipping temples called ateshkadeh . One of these immigrant Parsees , namely Tata Co @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a practical example of India 's religious tolerance . Indians demonstrated the same liberalism to the communities of different faiths that came and settled down in India in the course of her history . Long back when the world did not know the word democracy India had spoken of vasudevamkutumbkam meaning international fraternity . So did Sa'adi , the great Iranian poet and thinker say nearly a thousand years ago ( bani adama'zayeh yak paikarand -- humans are the limbs of one body ) . But today , India has perhaps the most comprehensive constitution guiding the heterogenous Indian polity of how a country with enormous diversity has to be run through a system that treats all Indian citizens on equal keel . It sounds strange that a country run according to Sharia ( Islamic law ) and that too of Shia orientation expresses concern for the Indian Muslims who are governed by secular and democratic dispensation . May we request the Iranian supreme religious leader to name a single Islamic country where laws and rules apply to all citizens based on equality before the law ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mosques and endowments utilized as support to non-Muslims to facilitate performance of religious rites ? But in India , under the Indian Constitutional provision , the enormous in come from Hindu temples and shrine properties running into billions of dollars is handed over to Muslim Trusts to support pilgrimage by the Indian Muslims to Mecca . This practice has been going on ever since the dawn of freedom in 1947 . If the Iranian supreme religious leader is really concerned about the Muslims in India , he should not have opposed the application of India for the membership of the OIC . If an Islamic organization like OIC rejects the admission of a country with the world 's largest Muslim population , is it doing justice to its existence ? If the Iranian religious leader is really concerned about the oppressive elements meting out a heavy-handed treatment to the Muslims in different parts of the world , he should have raised his voice for the Baluch , the Pushtun , the Gilgatis and Baltistanis , the Kalash and the Chitralis . He should have highlighted the case of nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain why were nearly 400 young Iranian girls and women butchered by gun-wielding Pasdaran forces even as they were peacefully demonstrating against the kidnapping and killing of a Kurdish girl named Ahsa ? Thousands of Iranians protesting against the dictatorial type of theocracy are lingering in the dreaded prison houses of Iran like Avin . We said in the beginning that Iran 's problem is to be searched in her history as well as her psyche . Ancient Iran was famed for her great empire and monarchies like those of the Achaemenians and Sassanians . Under the long rule of staunch nationalist monarchies , Iran raised a magnificent civilization of world fame . After Iran passed over into the hands of the Muslims , the fabulous monarchical grandeur and civilizational splendour perished to its nadir . The Iranian nation down the present day has not come out of that trauma . Secondly , since Iran had to show her superiority as a conformist of the faith that Muslim Arabs brought , ( more faithful than the king ) , they picked up an injunction from the holy book that says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traces of Judaism effaced from the Islamic lands , and are faithfully following it by raising proxies in different parts of the Middle East . We would like to let these happening slip off our memory but we need to tell the world what India stands for .
