<h> Netanyahu will address UN as Israel , bogged down by one war , barrels toward another <p> Jerusalem , Sept 25:rom the dais of the UN General Assembly just a year ago , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu triumphantly hailed a new peace he said would sweep through the Middle East . A year later , as he travels back to that same world stage , that vision is in tatters . The devastating war in Gaza is about to hit the one-year mark . Israel is on the cusp of a wider regional war with the Iran-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah . And the country finds itself increasingly isolated internationally and led by a polarising leader whose handling of the conflict has sparked protests both in global capitals and on the streets of his own country . And it 's not just the mushrooming regional conflicts weighing Israel down . Netanyahu will head to New York burdened also by what could be an imminent warrant for his arrest by the International Criminal Court , what would put him in a fellowship of sorts with Russian President Vladimir Putin and former Sudanese leader Omar al-Bashir . " He arrives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Alon Liel , a former director-general of Israel 's Foreign Ministry and outspoken critic of Netanyahu . <p> He 's known for his UN speeches , but will this year be different ? Netanyahu is set to address the General Assembly on Friday . A gifted orator , he has long viewed speeches from such venerated perches as the optimal way to deliver a message and score political points with Israelis enthralled by his flawless English and fiery delivery . In July , he championed Israel 's case for the war in Gaza in front of a joint session of the US Congress , where he received multiple ovations and plaudits even from some critics back home . " In his view , any such trips to New York , to the grand stage of world affairs , he considers an advantage , " said Yossi Shain , a professor of international relations at Georgetown and Tel Aviv University . He said Netanyahu 's speeches abroad were often meant to impress audiences at home , and this one was no different . Netanyahu is known for his showmanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to try make a case for his ideology and policies . At a speech in 2012 , Netanyahu famously brandished a placard with a cartoon bomb to illustrate what he said was Iran 's race toward a nuclear weapon . In 2009 , he showed up with a copy of the plans for the Nazi death camp Auschwitz-Birkenau , using it to highlight what he said was the former Iranian leader 's " antisemitic rants " . Last year , his focus was on what appeared to be a burgeoning normalisation with Saudi Arabia that he said showed how a broader Middle East peace was not contingent on resolving the conflict with the Palestinians . He held up his prop , a map of the region , and used the word " peace " 42 times . The map appeared to show Gaza and the West Bank -- territories claimed by the Palestinians for a future state -- as being encompassed by Israel . But Netanyahu arrives at the United Nations this week at a time when his own diplomatic capital and legitimacy , as well as that of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that aside from a moment in the spotlight , it 's not clear what Netanyahu will achieve with the visit . " He is a great believer in speechmaking , " said Tal Schneider , an Israeli political commentator . " He thinks that if he delivers a speech in English , he can convince people in the justness of his ways , " she said , adding that that demonstrated he was " disconnected from reality . " Netanyahu 's office did not immediately respond to a request for comment . Miki Zohar , a Cabinet minister who is close to Netanyahu , said the UN was a " very important stage " to lay out Israel 's position and he hoped the speech would bolster international support . <p> Some may not want to hear what he has to say At the UN , Netanyahu will seek to persuade a world growing increasingly exasperated by Israel 's war in Gaza that its aims are righteous . He may try to galvanise the world behind an Israeli war against Hezbollah . And he is likely to lay blame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focus of his speeches at home and abroad . That he is making the trip at all , at a time of escalating violence with Hezbollah , points to how much significance he places on the speech . But Netanyahu 's words may fall on deaf ears . The Israeli leader " actually believes that his UN speeches have transformative effects on history . They do not " , said Alon Pinkas , a former Israeli consul general in New York . Netanyahu 's visit , Pinkas added , comes as Israel is now globally perceived as being " on the precipice of a condemned pariah state " with its leader seen as a " rogue war-monger " . Protests are expected during his visit . New York is home to Columbia University , site of some of the most intense campus demonstrations of recent years this spring -- by students objecting to the bloodshed in Gaza . Netanyahu , Israel 's longest-serving leader , has been a divisive figure internationally for years , with his hard-line approach to the Palestinians in particular frustrating world leaders . But his handling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perception . The war was set off by Hamas ' October 7 attack , which killed 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and saw 250 people dragged as hostages into Gaza . Many Israelis blame Netanyahu and his policies for allowing Hamas to develop the military capacity for being able to burst through Israel 's vaunted defences and stage the attack . The war has killed more than 41,000 Palestinians , according to health officials in Gaza , and has often wiped out multiple members of the same family . It has displaced most of the tiny territory 's 2.3 million population , in many cases several times , and set off a humanitarian crisis that has caused widespread hunger and lack of access to basic services . US-led cease-fire efforts have stalled , and at home , Netanyahu has come under criticism for his failure to bring home the roughly 70 hostages still presumed to be alive and the bodies of some 30 others . In the aftermath of Hamas ' unprecedented attack , Israel initially had the backing of its allies to punish the militant group . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has taken on civilians have soured the international mood against Israel . Over time , the Biden administration has grown increasingly impatient and has slowed some weapons deliveries . Britain said earlier this month it was suspending some arms exports to Israel over the risk that their use could violate international law . The request by the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court for an arrest warrant against Netanyahu will also loom large over the visit and could cast a leader who views himself as an international statesman as a global pariah instead . Liel guessed that very few heads of state will agree to meet him on the sidelines of the assembly and that the visit could turn out to be a bust for Netanyahu . " There is no doubt that he knows how to deliver a speech , " Liel said , adding : " I think the world buys his chatter less and less . " ( AP )
