<h> Editorial : Death of hope for people in Gaza Strip <p> There seems to be no end to the misery of people in the Gaza Strip . They are being subjected to aerial bombing again by the Israeli military forces , making a mockery of the ceasefire between Israel and Hamas . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wants to keep the Gaza pot boiling for his own political survival . It fits into a global pattern of right-wing politics which largely thrives on an atmosphere of constant hostilities . More than 400 people , including women and children , have been killed in the latest attacks launched by Israel , citing a lack of progress in talks to extend the ceasefire . The relentless bombardment of the Gaza Strip from October 2023 , ostensibly aimed at the " destruction of Hamas " , has obviously not yielded the desired results . After widespread death and destruction , the Netanyahu government is back with another round of deadly military campaign , with the same aim of neutralising Hamas by targeting its " governing and military capabilities " . Tel Aviv @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of humanitarian aid to Gaza in early March in an attempt to pressurise Hamas to accept the extension of the first phase and release more hostages . The people of Gaza had hardly begun to clear the debris created by prolonged military strikes when the bombings restarted . They are aware that it will take a long time to rebuild their homes and lives . The resumption of large-scale military campaigns has virtually shattered hopes of peace returning to the strife-torn region . <p> With an already fragile ceasefire now in tatters , the Gaza Strip has been plunged back into turmoil . While Israel has defended its renewed bombardment to free hostages still held by Hamas , the Palestinian militant group , however , claimed that it adhered to the truce terms and was ready for negotiations . The hostages remain caught in a diplomatic deadlock , staring at an uncertain fate . The humanitarian crisis in Gaza has now reached catastrophic levels . The destruction has spread beyond military targets , affecting homes , schools and entire communities . Israel 's offensive not only intensifies suffering in Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in actors like Iran , Hezbollah and Yemen 's Houthis . A single miscalculation could escalate the war , plunging the entire West Asian region into deeper instability . As it is , the ceasefire deal appeared tenuous from the word go . Negotiations never seriously began for the second phase which was supposed to bring about a permanent cessation of hostilities , the release of all hostages , and the total withdrawal of Israeli forces . Though the United Nations has condemned the latest attacks and Egypt has called for restraint , these appeals have done little to halt the bloodshed . The United States , a key ally of Israel , must push harder for immediate de-escalation rather than merely reiterating its support for Israel 's right to self-defence . Without meaningful international intervention , the humanitarian toll will only worsen .
