<h> Editorial : No end in sight <p> A year after the horrifying Hamas attack deep into Israeli territory , killing over 1,200 people and taking 250 hostages , the conflict shows no signs of abating . Instead , it is only intensifying and expanding , dragging other nations in its wake , as the Middle East is teetering on the edge of a full-blown war , the consequences of which are too dreadful to contemplate . In a disproportionate and ruthless response to the Hamas attack , Israel has virtually pulverised Gaza , killing over 40,000 people so far and displacing virtually an entire population from their homes in the tiny enclave . As the world watches helplessly and calls for restraint proving futile , Tel Aviv has been on a rampage as the fighting is now spreading to new areas . After crushing Hamas , the Iran-backed terror outfit operating in Gaza , Israeli forces have invaded Lebanon in pursuit of Hezbollah , another Tehran-sponsored organisation , assassinated its leader Hassan Nasrallah , and threatened a potentially devastating confrontation with Iran , which last week struck Israel with a barrage of ballistic missiles . The Israel-Gaza war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Iran coming face to face in a confrontation . With all sides vowing to escalate , it is unclear when or how any of this can stop . In the meantime , millions of Israelis and Palestinians , whose lives were upended last October 7 , have been left in an unending state of limbo -- traumatised , bereaved . <p> There can be no solution unless both sides shed their extreme postures and work towards lasting peace in one of the most turbulent regions of the world with a long history of wars rooted in religious , ethnic and territorial claims . While Israel has been unwilling to accept the legitimate aspirations of Palestinians and their dream of having a homeland , Iran has been nurturing terror outfits like Hamas , Hezbollah and Houthis in the region as part of its staged goal to ' wipe Israel off the map ' . The United States , the only country with the political influence to promote a ceasefire , has so far failed to end the conflict . Former American President Donald Trump is egging Israel on to step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's unhinged sledgehammer tactics are worrisome , not just for the region but also for the world at large . Israel 's Western allies have been ineffective in reducing the hostilities , despite being in a position to influence Israeli leadership . A deeply fractured United Nations Security Council can not be expected to bring peace to the region . As the Middle East stares at a prolonged war , India 's interests too are at stake . With nearly 10 million Indians living in the Gulf , an economy extremely sensitive to oil prices , and rapidly growing trade and investment relations , India needs to play a role in averting a major disaster in the region .
