<h> Energy crisis forces Jos DisCo to downgrade 33 feeders <p> Jos Electricity Distribution ( JED ) has announced the temporary downgrading of over 33 of its feeders , revealing that the decision was necessitated by the company 's inability to meet the mandatory requirements for energy distribution to customers in Band A. <p> * 253 transformers vandalised in Bayelsa <p> Jos Electricity Distribution ( JED ) has announced the temporary downgrading of over 33 of its feeders , revealing that the decision was necessitated by the company 's inability to meet the mandatory requirements for energy distribution to customers in Band A. <p> Meanwhile , the Bayelsa State government has expressed worry over the vandalism of over 253 electricity transformers in different communities around Yenagoa , as Transmission Company of Nigeria ( TCN ) is set to restore power to the state after a four-month blackout . <p> The Head of Corporate Communications at JED , Friday Elijah , in a statement , yesterday , mentioned that nine feeders were downgraded from Band A to B , while 14 were downgraded from Band A to C. <p> Additionally , eight feeders were downgraded from Band A to D , while two feeders were downgraded from Band A to E. <p> Elijah said the downgrade was a temporary measure , adding that as soon as the company was able to normalise supply in consonance with their band 's expectations , the affected feeders would be returned to their original status . <p> He also explained that customers on the downgraded feeders would be charged the tariff applicable to their current band and not the Band A tariff . <p> " The recent disruption of supply , which lasted approximately 10 days , necessitated this downgrade . We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause and appreciate our customers ' understanding during this period , " he said . <p> Elijah reaffirmed the company 's commitment to continually provide its customers with reliable and efficient electricity supply while emphasising efforts underway to restore normal supply to the affected feeders . <p> BAYELSA was in July thrown into darkness as vandals destroyed a 132KV double circuit line , which affected over 19 electricity towers , in Ahoada , Rivers State , that supply power to the state from the national grid . <p> The Commissioner for Information , Orientation and Strategy , MrsEbiuwou Koku-Obiyai , while giving an update on the power situation in the state , at a press briefing , yesterday , said though the vandalised power towers were Federal Government 's property , the state fixed them for the benefit of the residents . <p> She disclosed that the state government would soon inaugurate a task force to go around stores , shops and other places to uncover those selling used armoured cables . She urged community leaders to protect the government property in the areas . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) has reminded the public of the ban on imported frozen chicken , turkey , and catfish . The agency , which made this known during a sensitisation programme at the Kado Fish Market , Abuja , said the ban not only affects the importation of such items but also the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
