<p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> OKPEBHOLO <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . <p> A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the suspension of the market unions and associations is a step in the right direction . <p> Isibor slammed the different unions and associations for making life unbearable for the common man through their undue , unrealistic hijacking of palm produce from the rural areas to the urban market by inflating the commodity prices beyond the reach of the ordinary man . <p> Besides , he said that the groups have caused the prices of staple foods to skyrocket , including garri , rice , plantain , beans , corn , pepper , tomatoes , vegetables , among others . <p> The chairman noted that it is to the delight of the people and the relief of the masses to see all these food prices crash down against the high cost of commodities due to the activities of the unscrupulous market unions and associations . <p> Isibor added , " We therefore appreciate the governor for taking the bull by the horns by having the political will to suspend the so-called unions , who do not allow the real owners of the produce to sell their market according to their wishes . " <p> " Immediately after the governor 's pronouncement suspending these wicked market unions , the market prices came down like a pack of cards to the reach of the impoverished common man in the state . " <p> He added that the governor 's critics are confounded by his spectacular , people-oriented actions , noting that the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) had earlier pleaded with the governor to deal with these anti-masses market unions and associations , a step which he took without wasting time . <p> According to Isibor , the action showed that Governor Okpebholo is a listening governor . <p> He said , " He should go further to constitute a committee to oversee and monitor the markets in case there may be defiant groups of people who would n't comply with the governor 's directive . Such persons should be arrested and prosecuted to serve as a deterrent to others . <p> " The governor should set up forest rangers to give farmers security to go to their farms to produce food for Edo people . This is to checkmate the activities of the killer Fulani herdsmen and kidnappers who are all over our forests , kidnapping our people for ransom or eventually killing them in some cases . " <p> The group also commended Governor Okpebholo for taking the bold step of swearing in the three judges whom the immediate past Governor , Godwin Obaseki , refused to swear in and for the payment of the 13 months ' salary to civil servants . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) has reminded the public of the ban on imported frozen chicken , turkey , and catfish . The agency , which made this known during a sensitisation programme at the Kado Fish Market , Abuja , said the ban not only affects the importation of such items but also the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
