<h> New VAT model unfavourable to Lagos , Rivers <p> Lagos and Rivers are two states that will witness an unfavourable change in the advent of the proposed value-added tax ( VAT ) derivation . This is according to the VAT Consumption Data by the National Bureau of Statistics ( NBS ) . Under the current model , Lagos gets 80.26% but the new model will see -81% change , resulting in a ... <p> Lagos and Rivers are two states that will witness an unfavourable change in the advent of the proposed value-added tax ( VAT ) derivation . <p> This is according to the VAT Consumption Data by the National Bureau of Statistics ( NBS ) . Under the current model , Lagos gets 80.26% but the new model will see -81% change , resulting in a derivation of 15.28% . <p> For Rivers , the state currently enjoys a derivation of 7.74% which will become 4.60% , signalling -41% change . Abia State , which is at the bottom in the least ranking states , will experience a significant change at 3,469% , with the old derivation of 0.05% witnessing an increase to 1.68% . <p> Imo State will move from 0.05% to 2.84% increase if the new model contained in the Tax Reform Bills of President Bola Tinubu is adopted and passed into law by the Senate . <p> Meanwhile , the Chairman of the Presidential Committee on Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms , Taiwo Oyedele , has said the proposed Tax Reform Bill will be a win-win for all the tiers of government . <p> In a post on X , Oyedele lamented that the current derivation is mainly determined based on where VAT is remitted , rather than where goods or services are supplied or consumed . <p> He said the new proposal aims to create a fairer system by devising a different form of derivation which takes into account the place of supply or consumption for relevant goods and services whether they are zero-rated , exempt or taxable at the standard rate . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) has reminded the public of the ban on imported frozen chicken , turkey , and catfish . The agency , which made this known during a sensitisation programme at the Kado Fish Market , Abuja , said the ban not only affects the importation of such items but also the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
