<h> New reforms to repeal over 50 taxes -- Oyedele <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . <p> Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . <p> The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy among Nigerians with some state governors and lawmakers asking that the bill be withdrawn . <p> The most contentious is the new value added tax distribution model which the committee said will henceforth be by derivation to promote equity . <p> Oyedele said apart from the tax laws that would be repealed when the new law comes into effect , the remaining levies would be harmonised into a few number of taxes . <p> He said that corporate income tax rates will reduce from 30 per cent to 25 per cent over the next two years , and earmarked taxes on companies will be replaced with a streamlined single levy . <p> He said the tax reform bills are aimed at transforming the Nigerian economy to empower Nigerians and facilitate inclusive economic growth . <p> The bills which include , the Nigeria Tax Bill -- to harmonise all the major taxes such as corporate income tax , personal income tax , VAT etc ; Nigeria Tax Administration Bill -- which provides a framework for tax management covering taxpayer identification , registration , assessment , collection , enforcement ; the Nigeria Revenue Service ( Establishment ) Bill -- which seeks to replace the FIRS with the NRS to perform a broader role of revenue administration in Nigeria and drive collaboration with subnational governments and MDAs , and the Joint Revenue Board ( Establishment ) Bill -- to transform the JTB to JRB with an expanded mandate and enhanced role for cooperation and tax harmonisation , " altogether offer a comprehensive overhaul of the country 's tax framework to drive economic growth , support Nigerian households , and position the country as a competitive economy within the comity of nations , " Oyedele said , adding that the reforms reflect a commitment to equity , efficiency , and sustainable development . <p> Highlights of the tax bills include , empowering the youths with digital economy opportunities ; boosting exports by ensuring goods , services , and intellectual property exports will benefit from zero-rated VAT and other incentives to enhance Nigeria 's global trade competitiveness , and offer tax exemptions , including zero per cent corporate income tax , VAT , and withholding tax , to small businesses with annual turnover of N50 million or less . <p> Others include , relief for workers and households by offering minimum wage earners exemption from PAYE ( personal income tax ) , while over 90 per cent of workers across the private and public sectors will see a reduced tax burden . <p> It also promises that essential items such as food , education , healthcare will enjoy zero per cent VAT while rent , public transportation , and renewable energy will be exempted , providing relief for low-income households that spend nearly 100 per cent of their income on these necessities . <p> On the vexatious new value added tax distribution model , Oyedele said the new model will bring equity among states . <p> According to him , " VAT revenue will be distributed among states based on an equitable model to reward economic contributions , rather than the current model which is skewed in favour of states with head office locations where VAT remittances are usually made . " <p> He also said that the new tax law will promote a new National Fiscal Policy , a strategic framework for fair taxation , responsible borrowing , and sustainable spending to guide the fiscal system . <p> " These tax reforms aim to alleviate the rising cost of living , foster economic equity , and create a business-friendly environment to attract local and foreign investments , " he explained . <p> " All tiers and arms of government are committed to driving inclusive growth and ensuring that all Nigerians benefit from a prosperous economy . " <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) has reminded the public of the ban on imported frozen chicken , turkey , and catfish . The agency , which made this known during a sensitisation programme at the Kado Fish Market , Abuja , said the ban not only affects the importation of such items but also the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
