<h> Taskforce destroys IPOB camps , arrests ESN members in Imo <p> The Joint Security Taskforce in Imo State , otherwise known as Operation Udoka , has arrested over twenty suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra ( IPOB ) and its security outfit , Eastern Security Network ( ESN ) , in a joint clearance operation . This was as the security team raided and destroyed their camps at Aku Community in Okigwe ... <p> The Joint Security Taskforce in Imo State , otherwise known as Operation Udoka , has arrested over twenty suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra ( IPOB ) and its security outfit , Eastern Security Network ( ESN ) , in a joint clearance operation . <p> This was as the security team raided and destroyed their camps at Aku Community in Okigwe Council Area of the state , dislodging them from the community . <p> Aside from recovering several stolen vehicles , arms , and ammunition , including explosive devices during the operation , shallow graves suspected to be where kidnapped victims killed by the hoodlums were buried were discovered . <p> The Commander in charge of the 34 Artillery Brigade , Obinze , Brig . Gen. U. A. Lawal ; the State Commissioner of Police , Aboki Danjuma ; and Special Adviser to the Imo State Government , Rt . Gen. Joseph Ogbonna , made the disclosure during an assessment visit to the community on Tuesday . <p> They reiterated the commitment of both the state government and the joint security operatives to rid the state of criminal elements and restore lasting peace and stability . <p> The security chiefs , who commended their men for their gallant dispositions and achievements during the operation , also urged the indigenes of the community and Imo citizens at large to continue supporting and collaborating with efforts to achieve adequate security in the state . <p> Speaking , Brig . Gen. Lawal and CP Danjuma further disclosed that those arrested would be thoroughly investigated to ascertain their involvement in criminal activities in the area , adding that those found culpable would be dealt with according to the law . <p> They also said that efforts were in place to exhume the corpses buried in the shallow graves for possible identification and proper burial , while identified recovered stolen items would be handed over to their owners . <p> " Prior to now , you could n't enter this community because criminal elements had taken over here , but today , we are here . Through this operation , we have been able to bring back peace here again . <p> " Unfortunately , you can see the level of destruction here , carried out by these criminal elements . And we want to assure the people of Imo that we will not stop until these elements are all arrested , " Lawal said . <p> On his part , Danjuma declared the operation a success , adding that " so many arrests have been made . So many achievements have been recorded . As you have seen , we have visited their court where they passed judgments and jungle justice . We have visited their detention center . We have seen where they buried their victims in shallow graves . " <p> Other security chiefs at the visit included the Director of the Department of State Security Service , Shola Aguda ; Commander Naval Base , Oguta , Commodore M. B. Salisu ; and the State Commissioner for Homeland Security , Mr. Modest Osakwe , among others . <p> Aku Community , The Guardian gathered , has been under the siege of IPOB under the leadership of one Ifeanyi Eze Okorienta , popularly known as Gentle , who is an indigene of the community . <p> The Guardian also observed during the visit that while all indigenes of the community had deserted the area , churches , schools , markets , and other socio-economic facilities in the community were all destroyed by suspected members of the proscribed group . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) has reminded the public of the ban on imported frozen chicken , turkey , and catfish . The agency , which made this known during a sensitisation programme at the Kado Fish Market , Abuja , said the ban not only affects the importation of such items but also the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
