<h> Why my 2019 position on VAT changed -- Taiwo Oyedele <p> The Chairman , Presidential Committee on Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms , Taiwo Oyedele , has clarified a post challenging a proposed increase in the rate of Value Added Tax ( VAT ) which he shared on X in 2019 . In the post , Oyedele said VAT rate increase will lead to higher inflation , interest rate hike , and more unemployment , adding ... <p> The Chairman , Presidential Committee on Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms , Taiwo Oyedele , has clarified a post challenging a proposed increase in the rate of Value Added Tax ( VAT ) which he shared on X in 2019 . <p> In the post , Oyedele said VAT rate increase will lead to higher inflation , interest rate hike , and more unemployment , adding that it will generally make people poorer . <p> The post resurfaced after he appeared in a town hall meeting on Monday to enlighten Nigerians on the Tax Reform Bills of the Tinubu administration which are currently before the Senate . <p> According to some social media users circulating screenshots of the post , Oyedele 's current push for a tax reform that will increase VAT contradicts his position in 2019 . <p> Reacting to the criticism , Oyedele said he took the position in 2019 because an increase in VAT rate at the time would have led to inflation because of what was proposed by those behind the policy . <p> He said the 2019 policy proposed a general VAT increase on almost all items , with VAT applicable to many basic consumptions , adding that the policy meant that businesses would n't be able to claim tax credit for VAT paid on most of their costs . <p> On why he backs the 2024 policy , Oyedele said it proposes a specific VAT increase on a few items , removes VAT on most basic consumptions ( about 80% of goods and services ) and that businesses can claim tax credit for VAT paid on all their costs . <p> The chairman recently revealed that the proposed Tax Reform Bills will be a win-win for all the tiers of government . <p> In a post on X , he lamented that the current derivation is mainly determined based on where VAT is remitted , rather than where goods or services are supplied or consumed . <p> He said the new proposal aims to create a fairer system by devising a different form of derivation which takes into account the place of supply or consumption for relevant goods and services whether they are zero-rated , exempt or taxable at the standard rate . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) has reminded the public of the ban on imported frozen chicken , turkey , and catfish . The agency , which made this known during a sensitisation programme at the Kado Fish Market , Abuja , said the ban not only affects the importation of such items but also the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
