<p> Following a kiosks verification and validation exercise towards the upcoming Christmas Festival , occasioned by the displeasure of Governor Umo Eno over allegations of illegal resale of kiosks , the Akwa Ibom State Government has confirmed the arrest of some vendors . The vendors arrested by security operatives included those involved in various vices during online registration , such ... <p> Governor Umo Eno of Akwa Ibom State <p> Following a kiosks verification and validation exercise towards the upcoming Christmas Festival , occasioned by the displeasure of Governor Umo Eno over allegations of illegal resale of kiosks , the Akwa Ibom State Government has confirmed the arrest of some vendors . <p> The vendors arrested by security operatives included those involved in various vices during online registration , such as engaging in multiple registrations , reselling kiosks at very high costs against the government-approved rate , and inconsistencies in personal information data , among others . <p> The Commissioner for Culture and Tourism , Sir Charles Udoh , made this confirmation at the Christmas Park at Unity Park , Uyo , while addressing some vendors with discrepancies on their registration dashboard during the verification process . <p> Udoh stated that as a result of the arrests , kiosks have been confiscated from the culprits and will be given to deserving vendors who were fraudulently deprived of the government 's kind gesture . He added that this action would serve as a deterrent to others . <p> He urged all those who were compelled to buy kiosks at exorbitant costs above the approved N100,000 per kiosk or N30,000 per open space to report to officials of the ministry or the planning committee . <p> The tourism commissioner expressed appreciation to the state governor for his magnanimous gesture . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> Following a kiosks verification and validation exercise towards the upcoming Christmas Festival , occasioned by the displeasure of Governor Umo Eno over allegations of illegal resale of kiosks , the Akwa Ibom State Government has confirmed the arrest of some vendors . The vendors arrested by security operatives included those involved in various vices during online registration , such ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
