<h> Nigeria and disability matters on world 's disability day <p> Disability is a global issue . With causes of disability ranging from sickness to accident , communicable diseases , congenital defects , natural disaster to a fall , it is certain that every society has a fair share of different incidents that result in physical or hidden disabilities . <p> FILES People With Disabilities <p> Disability is a global issue . With causes of disability ranging from sickness to accident , communicable diseases , congenital defects , natural disaster to a fall , it is certain that every society has a fair share of different incidents that result in physical or hidden disabilities . <p> A WHO statistic affirms that 16 per cent of the global population experience a significant disability today . Recognising this fact , the United Nations set aside a day every year as the International Day of Disabled Persons ( IDDP ) . With its major goals as equalising opportunities , increasing public awareness , preventing the occurrence of disabilities and rehabilitating people with disabilities , the UN observes December 3 as the International Day of People with Disabilities . <p> This day every year is observed to further raise awareness and call the attention of the government and citizens to the situations of the individuals living with disabilities . It is a time set apart to promote the rights and well-being of people in this category . The theme for 2024 is " Amplifying the leadership of persons with disabilities for an inclusive and sustainable future . " <p> Despite the similarities in the manner of acquisition of disabilities , the living conditions of people living with disabilities globally are far different from one country to another . The strategic plans and support facilities available in each community and country is what makes a difference between social inclusion and social ostracism . While several nations around the world have participated in different policy drafting and adoption to improve the living conditions of the disabled and ensure independent living , the most important action which is the implementation of such policies is missing in Nigeria . <p> With a keen observation and the personal experience of disability of this writer , it is evident that many things pertaining to disabilities are inappropriate about Nigeria . Year after year Nigerians who are neither disabled nor have any experience of disabilities are sent to represent the country at international conferences where sensitive issues about disabilities are discussed . <p> How can such people feel the pain where it pinches ? Little wonder that upon their return and because they are not directly affected , such well-meaning global policies die a natural death . This alligns with the American slogan on disability , " Nothing about us without us . " It is totally unthinkable to decide issues about us while excluding us . And this supports why Nigerians with disabilities continue to be ignored and neglected . They remain poor and unheard . Their needs , feelings and experiences are hardly acknowledged . They are often misunderstood , framed as inferior and so unacceptable to the society . This general negative attitude results in making living humiliating and traumatic to persons living with disabilities in Nigeria . <p> Disabled Nigerians have no social protection . This makes them vulnerable and exposes them to several unbearable treatments . By a simple observation it is obvious that disability is expensive to maintain . The economic conditions of such people should therefore be improved to make coping easy for them . <p> Living without a disability in the present day Nigeria is very challenging . To relate that to living with any form of disability , especially mobility impairment is a big deal . For lack of definitive legislation , Nigerians with disabilities are unprotected and so remain defenseless . These individuals are generally marginalised in the area of transportation , housing , employment and politics . Their socio-economic conditions remain poor as they live in abject poverty with experience of different forms of abuse . <p> Nigeria was a signatory to the Article nine of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2007 . This commits signatories to provide for full accessibility in their various countries . This relates to providing ramps for wheelchair users at banks and other public places , elevators , braille signage and sign language interpreters for news and other important information , especially for the purpose of public health in the society . <p> The purpose of disability access is to improve the living conditions of the disabled people . It is essential to provide inclusion for them in the area of education , employment , recreation , housing , transportation as much as empowering them to exercise their right to participate in politics . It is pertinent to mention that Disability Access can not be achieved without a legislation . <p> Through different national legislations , various countries have provided physical accessibility to promote full inclusion for their citizens with disabilities . America established the Americans with Disability Acts ( ADA ) in 1990 , mandating both public and private business to be accessible . <p> The United Kingdom legislation made provision for the Equality Act in 2010 . South Africa made provision for Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act in 2010 while Canada , Australia , Norway and different other countries have legislative provisions to support their citizens with special needs in order to promote independent living . <p> This is what Nigerians with disabilities are hoping they will be remembered with sometime soon . It is by this they can gain equal access to social , economic and political life . <p> The writing of this article is to appeal to the Nigerian society that anything can be modified to accommodate the needs of people with disabilities thereby providing inclusion for them to live a decent and fulfilled life . To achieve this , barriers to participation have to be removed . <p> Providing disability access to public and private space , termed as universal design by the United Nations , is more crucial now than it has ever been because you never know who will eventually need it . With poor roads and daily occurrence of automobile accidents , with a very harsh economy that make people attempt dangerous tasks to make ends meet , a great addition is made into the disability population on daily basis . <p> As Nigeria joins the global world to mark another year of the disabled people , it is our sincere hope that living an independent life despite a disability will be achievable . Great efforts must be channeled towards disability prevention . Public health services must facilitate early screening of childhood diseases , early diagnosis and intervention . <p> Qualified individuals with disabilities should no longer suffer job discrimination and those employed should be retained as long as they are relevant . Work place policies must provide reasonable accommodation for disabled workers . <p> Does anyone feel the pains of Nigerians with disability when they face accommodation issues ? Adaptive technology simply interpreted as modification of existing devices or the creation of new uses should be enforced to enable a persons with disability complete their daily tasks . <p> For Nigerians with disabilities to live a fulfilling and independent life , the barriers that limit them such as physical barriers in respect to the environment and structural inaccessible designs , systemic barrier that excludes their needs from the policies , practices and laws , the attitudinal barriers of stigma , discrimination , pity , and inferiority and communication barriers for the hearing impaired and the blind will all have to be removed . <p> This is what we cry that the Nigerian government will emulate from western countries as another World Disability Day is being celebrated because this apparently abandoned population , if adequately supported and provided for have the capacity to contribute meaningfully to national development . <p> Alonge has physical disability with confinement to a wheelchair . With a Ford Foundation scholarship she obtained a Masters degree in Social Work at the Graduate School of Social Work at the University of Denver . She is a Disability Rights Advocate . <h> Latest <p> Raphinha and Lamine Yamal inspired Barcelona to a first win in four La Liga outings as they beat Mallorca 5-1 on Tuesday . The comprehensive victory brings the Catalans to 37 points at the top of the league table , four ahead of second-placed Real Madrid , but with two extra matches played . Carlo Ancelotti 's Spanish and European ... <p> Bayern Munich goalkeeper Manuel Neuer was sent off for the first time in his 866-match career on Tuesday , seeing a straight red for a last-man foul on Bayer Leverkusen 's Jeremie Frimpong . The 38-year-old rushed out of the box in typical fashion 18 minutes in to the German Cup last 16 clash , taking out an advancing ... <p> The UK government urged Britons to avoid political demonstrations in South Korea and said it was following the situation there after President Yoon Suk Yeol declared emergency martial law Tuesday . " That is a very fast-moving situation and , as you would expect , we are closely monitoring developments in South Korea , " Prime Minister Keir Starmer 's deputy spokesperson ... <p> Double Olympic road cycling champion Remco Evenepoel broke a hand , ribs and shoulder blade when he collided with the open door of a postal van in Brussels during an off-season training ride on Tuesday . The 24-year-old 's team Soudal Quick-Step revealed the extent of his injuries as the Belgian was transferred to a specialist hospital for ... <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Group Chief Executive Officer , Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd . ( NNPCL ) , Mele Kyari , has reiterated the organisation 's commitment to advancing local content development in Nigeria 's energy sector and driving sustainable growth of the industry . According to a statement signed by the Chief Corporate Communications Officer , NNPCL , Olufemi Soneye , Kyari disclosed this at the ongoing 13th ... <p> Following a kiosks verification and validation exercise towards the upcoming Christmas Festival , occasioned by the displeasure of Governor Umo Eno over allegations of illegal resale of kiosks , the Akwa Ibom State Government has confirmed the arrest of some vendors . The vendors arrested by security operatives included those involved in various vices during online registration , such ... <p> The Seme-Krake Border Command of Nigeria Customs Service ( NCS ) , has identified and arrested two officers for misconduct and maltreatment of civilians as seen in a recent viral video . The Seme Customs Area Controller , Comptroller Kolade Kayode , disclosed this during a press briefing at the Command , assuring that the officers ; Superintendent of Customs , TA Inemugha , and ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ...
