<h> On the escalation of Russian-Ukraine crisis <p> Promptings by the United States and the United Kingdom that translated into long-range military strikes by Ukraine deep on Russia underscore a closer proximity to not only worsening the war in that region <p> This recent undated handout photograph , released by the Presidential Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on September 5 , 2024 , shows the ruins of the Ukrainian town of Vovchansk , in the Kharkiv region , located approximately five kilometers from the state border with the Russia . ( Photo by HANDOUT / Armed Forces of Ukraine / AFP ) <p> Promptings by the United States and the United Kingdom that translated into long-range military strikes by Ukraine deep on Russia underscore a closer proximity to not only worsening the war in that region but also raising the stake for deployment of non-conventional warfare , including nuclear armaments . None of the possibilities portends a desire for peaceful co-existence that the world craves . <p> The effects of failure to exercise caution on the part of the warring countries and their allies can be devastating to the countries involved , with huge collateral damage to the rest of the world . It is therefore imperative for world leaders to intervene urgently to stop the rapid slide into a preventable global anarchy . <p> The Russian-Ukrainian conflict appears to be escalating to dangerous peaks . Recently , the collective West , backer of Ukraine in the Russian-Ukraine crisis , let loose its reins on weapons supply to Ukraine and their deployment in battle with Russian forces . Specifically , the United States ( US ) and the United Kingdom ( UK ) authorised Ukraine to use American " Army Tactical Missile Systems ( ATACMS ) " and the UK 's Storm Shadow long-range missiles for strikes within Russian territory . The West claimed it was a response to the Russian deployment of North Korean forces by Russia in its Kursk region . <p> However , observers and Russia viewed the development as an escalation . Russia , without a doubt , said the development would require a corresponding response . Ukraine wasted no time in attacking Russian territories with long-range weapons . Russia wasted no time in hitting the Ukrainian city of Dnipro on November 21 . It used the RS-26 Rubezh Intercontinental Ballistic Missile ( ICBM ) , the first of such use in the ongoing conflict . <p> It is however noteworthy , that following the West 's decision to allow Ukraine to employ its long-range weapons to strike deep inside Russia . Russia has had to update its nuclear doctrine . <p> President Vladimir Putin has approved changes setting out new conditions under which the country would consider using its arsenal , meaning an attack from a non-nuclear state , if backed by a nuclear power , will be treated as a joint assault on Russia . The broad implications of this new position bring the world closer to the brink of nuclear catastrophe . <p> Amidst global concern for peace , the Ukrainian leadership is in a conversation of requesting the Americans to supply it with Tomahawk missiles while some elements in the West are in backdoor discussion of re-arming Ukraine with nuclear capability . <p> With a few months to go , we believe President Biden 's authorisation of the use of American long-range weapons in Russian territory is unnecessary . Giving more arms to Ukraine is not the way to go , and it is not the path to peace . Observers reasoned that Donald Trump 's imminent return to the White House casts a dark cloud on the prospect of support for Ukraine . <p> Thus , President Biden is desirous of strengthening the hands of Ukraine in peace negotiations . In this respect , Biden is about to rush through Congress an additional supply of about $725 million in arms to Ukraine , covering the delivery of land mines , drones , Stinger missiles , and ammunition for High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems ( HIMARS ) . Retired Lieutenant-Colonel Roman Shkurlatov , Chairman of the Officers of Russia public organisation , would corroborate the point above . He noted : " The enemy ignored our previous warning . It carried out a strike and did so on purpose , which means that the Western parties of the war are raising the stakes , increasing the degree of escalation . They seemingly want the conflict to reach a completely new level by January . This is being done with US President-elect Donald Trump 's peaceful rhetoric in mind . " <p> In this entire gambit , it is the Ukrainians that are being killed and not the Americans , a realisation that ought to have dawned on someone somewhere . Besides , if a wider war starts , the entire world would suffer , and there would be no island of exclusion . It is high time that world leaders stepped in to rein insanity . <p> President Putin should exercise restraint and wait for President Trump who has made the prompt resolution of the Russian-Ukraine conflict an electoral promise . <p> As the world yearns for peace , some in the Intel community believe that in the current situation , dialogue with Russia would be better than no communication at all to prevent further escalation , though there are doubts about Russian reception . In the same vein , China through its foreign ministry has expressed concern over nuclear rhetoric . The Ministry noted that " China is deeply concerned about the nuclear risks caused by the Ukrainian conflict . It has repeatedly stated that the use of nuclear weapons is unacceptable and that nuclear war should not be unleashed . It urged all sides " to remain calm and restrained and to work together to de-escalate the situation through dialogue and consultations aimed at reducing strategic risks . " <p> So far , the conflict has had dire economic consequences on the world , especially Europe which depends on grains and gas supply from the belligerents . American and European sanctions against Russia , especially its energy sector have hit Europe hardest . Currently , gas prices in Europe have skyrocketed , surpassing $540 per 1,000 cubic meters . Energy experts note that this trend is not likely to change . An all-out war would also impact many countries , including , Nigeria . <p> There is no doubt that the world is sitting on the precipice of a nuclear disaster . War must not be allowed to break out between Russia and the West . Cheering , however , is the news that President Donald Trump is talking with the Austrian Chancellor , Karl Nehammer , on the need to host a peace summit on the Russian-Ukraine conflict . The world looks on with understandable trepidation to these talks . <h> Latest <p> Raphinha and Lamine Yamal inspired Barcelona to a first win in four La Liga outings as they beat Mallorca 5-1 on Tuesday . The comprehensive victory brings the Catalans to 37 points at the top of the league table , four ahead of second-placed Real Madrid , but with two extra matches played . Carlo Ancelotti 's Spanish and European ... <p> Bayern Munich goalkeeper Manuel Neuer was sent off for the first time in his 866-match career on Tuesday , seeing a straight red for a last-man foul on Bayer Leverkusen 's Jeremie Frimpong . The 38-year-old rushed out of the box in typical fashion 18 minutes in to the German Cup last 16 clash , taking out an advancing ... <p> The UK government urged Britons to avoid political demonstrations in South Korea and said it was following the situation there after President Yoon Suk Yeol declared emergency martial law Tuesday . " That is a very fast-moving situation and , as you would expect , we are closely monitoring developments in South Korea , " Prime Minister Keir Starmer 's deputy spokesperson ... <p> Double Olympic road cycling champion Remco Evenepoel broke a hand , ribs and shoulder blade when he collided with the open door of a postal van in Brussels during an off-season training ride on Tuesday . The 24-year-old 's team Soudal Quick-Step revealed the extent of his injuries as the Belgian was transferred to a specialist hospital for ... <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Group Chief Executive Officer , Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd . ( NNPCL ) , Mele Kyari , has reiterated the organisation 's commitment to advancing local content development in Nigeria 's energy sector and driving sustainable growth of the industry . According to a statement signed by the Chief Corporate Communications Officer , NNPCL , Olufemi Soneye , Kyari disclosed this at the ongoing 13th ... <p> Following a kiosks verification and validation exercise towards the upcoming Christmas Festival , occasioned by the displeasure of Governor Umo Eno over allegations of illegal resale of kiosks , the Akwa Ibom State Government has confirmed the arrest of some vendors . The vendors arrested by security operatives included those involved in various vices during online registration , such ... <p> The Seme-Krake Border Command of Nigeria Customs Service ( NCS ) , has identified and arrested two officers for misconduct and maltreatment of civilians as seen in a recent viral video . The Seme Customs Area Controller , Comptroller Kolade Kayode , disclosed this during a press briefing at the Command , assuring that the officers ; Superintendent of Customs , TA Inemugha , and ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ...
