<h> FG seeks interventions to prevent HIV transmission among children <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . <p> It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . <p> Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the event organised by the National Agency for the Control of AIDS ( NACA ) to mark the 2024 World AIDS Day on Tuesday in Abuja . <p> Salako noted that with an estimated two million people living with HIV in the country , it is critical to reposition the HIV response to meet the needs of vulnerable groups . <p> He emphasised the need to address the social , cultural , and economic barriers that hinder access to healthcare services for women and children . <p> Salako observed that the government has taken a step forward in the fight against HIV/AIDS by ensuring HIV is fully integrated in the sector wide approach ( SWAp ) which will help ensure that all resources are aligned with our national health priorities can continue to lead HIV response with full government ownership and accountability . <p> The minster stressed the need to sustain the momentum in the fight against HIV&amp;AIDS in the country and commended NACA for the significant strides made so far in her mandate to coordinate the multi-sectoral responses to HIV/AIDS . <p> He said , " Through NACA 's good coordination of the collaborative efforts of all stakeholders to HIV/AIDS , Nigeria has been able to expand access to testing and treatment , comprehensive prevention programmes , and reduce stigma and discrimination . <p> " On this 2024 World AIDS Day , let us renew our commitment to ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Nigeria . Together , we can build a healthier , more inclusive future for all . Let us recommit ourselves to this noble cause . The path to ending AIDS in Nigeria by 2030 is clear . Let us walk this path with determination , unity , and purpose , ensuring that future generations will live in a world free of HIV . " <p> Also speaking , the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Nigeria , Mohamed M. Malick Fall said that human rights violations and abuse continue to undermine the progress towards the 2030 goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat . <p> Fall stated that commitment to human rights , including gender equality , equitable access to affordable prevention and treatment tools and sustainable financing are essential for ending AIDS as a public health threat . <p> According to him , to end AIDS as a public health threat , there is the need to promote , protect and fulfil the human rights of all people living with and affected by HIV . <p> He said , " The path to end AIDS is not in doubt -it is indeed the rights path . We can end AIDS as a public health threat , if the human rights of all people living with and at risk of HIV are upheld . " <p> Fall stressed the need to place Children 's rights at the center of the HIV response stressing that ending AIDS in children requires a multifaceted approach . <p> He highlighted the need to intensify efforts to eliminate vertical transmission of HIV , so that no child in Nigeria will be born or from AIDS-related illnesses . <p> In her welcome address , the Director General of NACA , Dr Temitope Ilori said that the World AIDS Day offers a moment to reflect on the progress , address challenges , and strengthen our efforts in the ongoing fight against HIV . <p> Ilori noted that despite advancements , challenges persist , especially among marginalized communities adding that the agency is placing special emphasis on stopping AIDS among our children as well as raising consciousness on sustainability and ownership of the HIV response . <p> South Korea 's President Yoon Suk Yeol said Wednesday he would lift martial law , just hours after imposing it in a bid to quell what he called " anti-state forces " . Yoon backed down after lawmakers voted to oppose the unexpected declaration , which caught even South Korea 's closest allies around the world off guard . Earlier the National Assembly ... <p> The United States voiced opposition Tuesday to any Israeli permanent base-building in the Gaza Strip after The New York Times reported an acceleration of construction by the Israeli military . The State Department said it could not confirm the report in the newspaper , which said that its analysis of satellite imagery showed stepped-up base construction accompanied ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has expressed disappointment over an allegation by activist Omoyele Sowore that it was covering the identity of the promoters of the recovered 753 duplexes in the Lokogoma district of Abuja . EFCC spokesman , Dele Oyewale , in a statement , said Sowore was undermining the efforts of the agency after achieving ... <p> The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) has reminded the public of the ban on imported frozen chicken , turkey , and catfish . The agency , which made this known during a sensitisation programme at the Kado Fish Market , Abuja , said the ban not only affects the importation of such items but also the ... <p> The Federal Government said it remains committed to achieving the goal of ending AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 . It called on state governments and the private sector to scale up interventions aimed at preventing HIV transmission among children . Minister of State for Health , Dr Iziaq Adekunle Salako made the call at the ... <p> The Edo State chapter of the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) on Tuesday commended Edo State Governor , Monday Okpebholo , for the people-oriented actions he has taken during his short stay as Edo State chief executive . A statement in Benin by the Coalition of Registered Political Parties ( CRPP ) chairman , Dr. Samson Isibor , said that the ... <p> The new Nigeria Tax Reform Bills before the National Assembly will repeal over 50 taxes that constitute nuisance to Nigerian taxpayers . Chairman of the Presidential Fiscal Policy and Tax Reforms Committee , Mr. Taiwo Oyedele , stated this in his post on his X handle on Tuesday . The new tax bills have generated a lot of controversy ... <p> The Nigerian Navy has expressed optimism of ensuring the the 2 million bpd production before the end of the year . The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship ( NNS ) Pathfinder , Commodore Cajethan Aniaku Gabe the assurance during the command 's fourth quarterly route march in Port Harcourt , Rivers State . He reiterated Navy 's commitment towards intensifying the fight ... <p> South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that tourists from Nigeria can now apply for a visa without submitting a passport . Ramaphosa spoke on Tuesday at the opening of the 11th session of the Nigeria-South Africa Bi-National Commission ( BNC ) in Cape Town , attended by President Bola Tinubu . Tinubu 's spokesperson , Bayo Onanuga , disclosed this in a ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) has said that the company suspected to be the owner of 753 units of duplexes in Abuja , flagged by its investigations , denied ownership of the estate following publications made in leading national newspapers . EFCC spokesperson , Dele Oyewale , who disclosed this in Abuja , noted that it was on the ...
