<h> Human rights in crisis : Addressing the challenges facing Nigeria ( 1 ) <p> The United Nations declared December 10 every year as International Human Rights Day , mainly to highlight the rights now recognized globally as enuring to and enjoyed by human beings by virtue of their humanity . Although there is still so much ground to cover in the areas of protection of human rights , the decision to set aside a day for this purpose has helped in no small measure to draw global attention to the issue . I was one of the guest speakers of the Human Rights Committee of the Premier Bar on December 10 , 2024 , where I shared my thoughts on the topic . <p> According to Ant ? nio Guterres , the United Nations ( UN ) Secretary-General , " human rights are under assault ... This year 's 2024 's theme reminds us that human rights are about building the future -- right now ... We must stand up for all rights -- always . " Guterres ' bird's-eye view on the global crises against HRs from the vintage of global leadership undoubtedly provides us with a global big picture which is a true reflection of the stark reality of the crises beleaguering HRs right from the pinnacle of the intercontinental stage , through the international , down to national/local scenes . Guterres ' observation is an echo of this year 's theme : Our Rights , Our Future , Right Now . <p> At the intercontinental and international scenes HRs crises of epic proportions as seen , for instance , in the outrageous wars involving Russia and Ukraine , Israel and Gaza/Hezbollah and allied Middle Eastern forces ; together with other sundry abuses of HRs are blood-cuddling to say the least . Back home in Nigeria , the incidences of decimation of HRs through indiscriminate destruction of lives and property through acts of terror , political crimes , banditry , kidnapping , grievous sexual assaults , domestic violence , etc. give us all a reason to worry . However , in a manner of speaking , Human Rights ( HRs ) , with its global crusade has come a long way . Indeed , it is no longer the infant it once was , though we are yet to see it mature into the adult we all hope it ought to be . In the meantime , let us commemorate a milestone of an HRs global movement , albeit in its adolescence . Shall we ? <p> Conceptual clarifications on key terms : <p> Rights : The concept of rights , as is typical with most legal concepts , is as multifaceted and poly-dimensional in meaning as there are jurisprudential schools of thought . To begin with , the Black 's Law Dictionary defines rights as something that is just , morally correct , and in accordance with ethical principles or the rules of positive law . It also defines a right as the capacity to control the actions of others with the assistance of the state . Without necessarily allowing ourselves to descend into the depths of the wells of a jurisprudence class on the concept of rights in all its academic nuances , we may further explore a few classical definitions of the most notable legal philosophers of global repute within the realms of jurisprudence . <p> Hugo Grotius ( 1583 -- 1645 ) often considered as the father of international law defined a right as a " moral quality of a person , making it possible to have or do something lawfully . " Immanuel Kant ( 1724 -- 1804 ) describes rights as the " capacity to constrain others in accordance with universal laws of freedom . " On his own part , Jeremy Bentham ( 1748 -- 1832 ) , dismissing the idea of natural rights , saw rights rather as creation of law , deriving existence and legitimacy from legal systems rather than from moral or natural law . From his positivist standpoint , John Austin ( 1790 -- 1859 ) defined a right as a legally enforceable claim . He viewed rights as rooted in the commands of a sovereign and contingent on the existence of law . H.L.A . Hart ( 1907 -- 1992 ) , on his part , argued that a right is a protected interest or choice that individuals can exercise . His emphasis was on the connection between rights and duties . Wesley Hohfeld ( 1879 -- 1818 ) espoused the relational and reciprocal nature of rights . <p> According to him , rights are a system of jural relations , such as claims , duties , powers , and immunities . The above definitions cut across Natural , Positivist , Utilitarian , etc viewpoints . A more contemporary approach , however , would leave us with the notion that rights encompass moral principles , enforceable claims , or relational constructs or structures ensuring justice and fairness ; hence the axiom ubi jus , ibi remedium . <p> Human rights : Putting it in its simplest expression , HRs may be defined as the freedoms , immunities and benefits that , according to modern values , all human beings should be able to claim as a matter of right in the society in which they live . According to the UN , HRs may be defined as : Rights inherent to all human beings , regardless of race , sex , nationality , ethnicity , language , religion , or any other status . Human rights include the right to life and liberty , freedom from slavery and torture , freedom of opinion and expression , the right to work and education , and many more . Everyone is entitled to these rights , without discrimination . <p> Certain cardinal pillars of HRs as espoused by the UN include : <p> Universality : All people are born with the same rights , regardless of their race , sex , nationality , ethnicity , language , religion , or any other status ; Inalienability : People 's rights can never be taken away ; Indivisibility : All rights are equal in importance and none can be fully enjoyed without the others , Interdependence : All rights are related and must be treated as such ; <p> Fundamentality : Human rights include the right to life and liberty , freedom from slavery and torture , freedom of opinion and expression , the right to work and education , and many more and Govern how people live : Human rights govern how individuals live in society and with each other , as well as their relationship with the State . <p> Human rights vs. fundamental rights : <p> The distinction between Human Rights ( HRs ) and Fundamental Rights ( FRs ) is only a little short of the distinction between six and half a dozen in that both concepts refer largely to the same substance . Traditionally , the term FRs is used in a constitutional context whereas the term HRs is used in international law . <p> By Order 1 Rule 2 of the Fundamental Rights ( Enforcement Procedure ) Rules , 2009 " Fundamental Right " and " Human Right " are defined in the following manner : - " Fundamental Right -- means any of the rights provided for in Chapter IV of the Constitution , and includes any of the rights stipulated in the African Charter on Human and People 's Rights ( Ratification and Enforcement ) Act . Human Rights -- includes fundamental rights . <p> Eso , J.S.C. in Ransome-Kuti v. A-G . Federation , ( 1985 ) LPELR-2940(SC) on the nature and meaning of FRs , has this to say : ... What is the nature of a fundamental right ? It is a right which stands above the ordinary laws of the land and which in fact is antecedent to the political society itself . It is a primary condition to a civilized existence and what has been done by our constitution since independence , starting with the Independence Constitution that is : the Nigeria ( Constitution ) Order in Council 1960 up to the present Constitution that is the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria , 1979 ( the latter does not in fact apply to this case : it is the 1963 Constitution that applies ) is to have these rights enshrined in the Constitution so that the rights could be " immutable " to the extent of the " non-immutability " of the Constitution itself . Emphasis supplied . <p> As such , FRs are those HRs trapped and domiciled or better still , entrenched within the documentary four walls of a Constitution or statute . HRs , on the other hand , extends beyond FRs , and embraces all those God-endowed rights intrinsic to the human person by virtue of his humanity . In our Nigerian context , the locus of the FRs is Chapter IV of the Constitution comprising Sections 33 to 46 thereof . FRs may also be found in the African Charter on Human and Peoples ' Rights ( Ratification and Enforcement ) Act . <p> A brief historical background on the UDHR : <p> The Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) was adopted by the United Nations ( UN ) General Assembly on the 10th of December , 1948 . Like the UN itself , UDHR rose from the ashes of World War II . When it was adopted in 1948 , much of the world was still recovering from the sore wounds of the deadliest conflict in history , which claimed more than 60 million lives . <p> In the aftermath of such unprecedented death and destruction of lives and property , the world turned to diplomacy to make sure history would not repeat itself . Nations came together for the first time to publicly declare the fundamental freedoms that belong to all of us . The Commission on Human Rights was set up , chaired by Eleanor Roosevelt , the First Lady of the United States of America ( from 1933 to 1945 ) and tasked with the responsibility of composing the UDHR . Roosevelt asserted the Declaration would reflect more than Western ideas ; to accomplish this , the Human Rights Commission was made up of members from various cultural and legal backgrounds from all around the world , showing respect for differing cultures and their customs while also ensuring each region had a hand in creating the document . Under Roosevelt 's leadership , the diverse commission was able to craft the UDHR in a unique and culturally competent way . <p> The UDHR contains a preamble and 30 articles outlining our most basic birth rights , including protection against torture , inhumane treatment , cruel punishment , slavery , and servitude . It covers both civil and political rights and economic , social and cultural rights . The document heralded a new chapter of human history .
