<h> ANALYSIS : Africa must prepare for Trump 's comeback <h> How will Donald Trump 's second-term policies affect US relations with the continent ? <p> President Joe Biden 's recent trip to Angola -- the first state visit by a United States ( US ) president in nine years -- has highlighted America 's renewed engagement with Africa . But as Donald Trump prepares for his second term in office , questions arise about the future of US-Africa relations , and whether this engagement will continue . <p> Mr Trump 's first term , characterised by an inward-focused ' America First ' agenda , showed the need for Africa to recalibrate its strategies -- particularly in strategic geopolitical and security engagements . Several key issues at bilateral , regional and continental levels will be impacted by his second-term policies and the priorities of his inner circle . <p> Mr Trump 's return presents African countries with an opportunity to take a proactive stance in shaping their political and economic relations with the US and developing resilient strategies instead of reacting to shifting US policies . <p> Key bilateral relationships , particularly between the US and South Africa , are expected to shift -- stemming from US opposition to South Africa 's International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) case against Israel over Gaza , and the country 's close ties with China and Russia . <p> In particular , South Africa 's neutral position on the Russia-Ukraine war will be a point of tension in a second Trump presidency . The president is also opposed to South Africa 's growing partnership with China , which is amplified by China 's efforts to direct global trade away from the US and BRICS ' attempt at de-dollarisation , a move criticised by Mr Trump . <p> Notable figures in Mr Trump 's camp will also likely affect US-South Africa relations . For example , Marco Rubio , the presumptive Secretary of State and a strong critic of China , condemned South Africa 's decision to downgrade Taiwan 's embassy . <p> Mr Trump 's pick for UN Ambassador , Elise Stefanik , was part of a petition condemning South Africa 's ICJ case against Israel , calling it an attempt to ' demonise ' Israel . Michael Waltz led a push to review US-South Africa ties , a move Mr Biden resisted , but with Ms Waltz as Trump 's pick for National Security Advisor , it could gain momentum . <p> Article Page with Financial Support Promotion <h> Nigerians need credible journalism . Help us report it . <p> Support journalism driven by facts , created by Nigerians for Nigerians . Our thorough , researched reporting relies on the support of readers like you . <p> Help us maintain free and accessible news for all with a small donation . <p> Every contribution guarantees that we can keep delivering important stories -- no paywalls , just quality journalism . <p> South Africa assumed the G20 chair on 1 December and will host the 2025 Johannesburg summit . The country now faces a dual challenge of maintaining neutrality while addressing growing geopolitical divisions -- seeking to build consensus among G20 members and an expanded BRICS group while managing a more isolationist US under Mr Trump 's leadership . <p> This also presents an opportunity for Pretoria to spotlight African priorities on the global stage , especially with the African Union ( AU ) , now a full member of the G20 . With the US succeeding South Africa as chair , this transition could pave the way for a possible Cyril Ramaphosa-Trump engagement within the year , offering a critical window for dialogue and potential recalibration of relations . <p> In East Africa , Kenya 's newly elevated status as a major non-North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( MN-NATO ) ally could offer Nairobi some bargaining chips in the international space . Despite Mr Trump 's America First policy and negative views on NATO , he may temper his approach by focusing on strategic bilateral partnerships with MN-NATO allies , like Kenya . <p> The new US administration will probably continue its security relations in East Africa and the Horn -- largely due to Mr Rubio 's visit to Kenya and Somalia in 2019 , part of a bipartisan oversight mission for the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence . <p> Furthermore , because of the declining US security influence in West Africa , resulting from successive coups and the subsequent expulsion of US troops from Niger , maintaining the security partnership with Kenya is expected to remain a priority . <p> And given the Kenya-led Multinational Security Support ( MSS ) mission in Haiti , US-Kenya bilateral engagements might move the needle towards securing commitment to America 's over $300 million funding pledge to the mission . However , this would be a tall order given the Trump camp 's reluctance to fund the UN , and peacekeeping in particular -- despite the US proposing the resolution to replace the Kenyan-led MSS with a UN mission . <p> Mr Trump 's preference is for strategic partners to take up more of the burden without the US overextending its resources -- so Kenya must look beyond the US for support . <p> On the regional front , perhaps the most contentious area is the Horn of Africa . The controversial Project 2025 document of proposals produced by the conservative Heritage Foundation chapter on the State Department includes the recognition of Somaliland as a hedge against China 's growing influence in Djibouti . <p> This aligns with former Assistant Secretary for African Affairs Tibor Nagy , who served in Mr Trump 's first term and advocated for its recognition . Although denied by Mr Trump , Project 2025 is predominantly written by key former Trump officials , including the State Department chapter author , Kiron Skinner . Supporting this are optimistic statements of Somaliland recognition from former UK defence secretary Gavin Williamson after discussions with Mr Trump 's policy leads . <p> This could complicate US-Somalia and US-Ethiopia relations , as it will intensify brewing tensions over Ethiopia 's Red Sea access deal with Somaliland , much to the chagrin of Somalia , which has sought alliances with Egypt and Eritrea to counter them . Whether this is followed through will be crucial in determining the success of the AU 's Ethiopia-Somalia mediation efforts . <p> On a continental level , how the US responds to United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) reform proposals will matter to Africa . Current UN Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield has expressed support for Africa securing a permanent seat ( albeit without veto ) on the UNSC . Will the Trump administration continue this momentum ? <p> Given Mr Trump 's first-term attempts at defunding the UN and preference for bilateral over multilateral relations , momentum for UNSC reform in Africa 's favour will unlikely increase under Mr Trump 's second term . Regardless , Africa must address its internal divisions on how the two seats outlined in the Ezulwini Consensus will be allocated . <p> A more consequential area facing US-Africa relations would be the US 's position and contribution to UNSC Resolution 2719 , a mechanism designed to fund AU-led peace support operations ( PSOs ) . America is the largest contributor to UN PSOs , at 27 per cent of the 2023-24 $6.1-billion budget . Within months of Mr Trump 's first term , the US successfully lobbied to reduce the UN peacekeeping budget by $600 million , although they aimed for an initial $1 billion reduction . <p> Although the resolution will be maintained , the case-by-case basis on which authorisation must be supported might present a significant challenge for Africa . UNSC discussions on implementation of 2719 in Somalia , for example , attract a strong negative US pushback . <p> Whether Mr Trump maintains America 's renewed focus on Africa will depend on aligning US and African interests -- despite their diversity -- and Washington 's push to counter Russia and China 's growing influence . Regardless of the US 's policy trajectory , Africa must be prepared . <h> Share this : <h> Support PREMIUM TIMES ' journalism of integrity and credibility <p> At Premium Times , we firmly believe in the importance of high-quality journalism . Recognizing that not everyone can afford costly news subscriptions , we are dedicated to delivering meticulously researched , fact-checked news that remains freely accessible to all . <p> Whether you turn to Premium Times for daily updates , in-depth investigations into pressing national issues , or entertaining trending stories , we value your readership . <p> It 's essential to acknowledge that news production incurs expenses , and we take pride in never placing our stories behind a prohibitive paywall . <p> Would you consider supporting us with a modest contribution on a monthly basis to help maintain our commitment to free , accessible news ?
