<h> Burning issues : Farotimi and Babalola -- Part 1 <p> Your country , my country , our country is currently burning with " burning " issues . It was n't my intention to give thought to any of them or to examine any of them here today . <p> Dele Farotimi <p> Your country , my country , our country is currently burning with " burning " issues . It was n't my intention to give thought to any of them or to examine any of them here today . I am , however , trying to safe-guard myself as a columnist against tomorrow by uttering the little statements I am uttering now with regard to the burning issues I am going to name shortly . <p> Before then let me re-state myself : By my giving my little attention to what I am going to pay attention to now , I am only trying as a columnist , popular or unpopular , erudite or not erudite , to disembarrass myself . How or why would a columnist or a public intellectual or public commentator worth his or her salt not comment on public or burning issues of the day ? What an embarrassment it would be if he or she is mum or neglects to make a note of any significant matter of public or of seeming public interest and concern ? <p> Thus without irony of further debate with myself I decided to speak from my heart wholly and sincerely in a spirit of enlightened magnanimity or of abundant generosity -- which is not and can never be short of generous generosity . My train of thought now derives from this consideration and understanding . <p> The first burning issue which I am starting with -- is the popular -- or better defined by me as the notorious Farotimi-Babalola tug-of-law . I am amused by it . And everything I have been reading from and by especially those who can easily pass as the pro-Farotimi folks and anti-Babalola chaps is particularly out of tune with the practicability of the truth or of the fact of the matter which they want to promote or are promoting . <p> So far as I can perceive it or as I am perceiving it they have turned or are turning Aare Afe Babalola who has claimed to be defamed into the under-dog rather than the top-dog . Afe Babalola , SAN , is no mean lawyer . He is a top , top Nigerian lawyer whom many Nigerians have been schooled to see and accept as a law genius and as someone who has lived the life of a man of genius . <p> His accomplishments in law and outside the practice and teaching of law , whatever his traducers may say , speak volumes and take the pattern of inevitability associated with the man of sound sense . He is thus very equipped as the top-dog in the drama that Farotimi has created and dragged him into . <p> In the eyes of the " human rights " preachers and advocates who have taken the case of the duo into the court of public opinion the young , upstart of a lawyer and possessor of a caustic rhetoric and tongue , is the top-dog-who shall and must defeat the now down-trodden Afe Babalola . How has the mighty one fallen ! But is this real or can this ever be real ultimately ? Time will tell from its womb at the appointed time that it will instruct it to tell us what it must tell us . <p> But what the pro-Farotimi folks and human rightists have dished out and are dishing out is half of the truth or far from the truth : Many of them -- like this poor man , yours -- very sincerely , have not read the book whose claims against his reputation and person Afe Babalola is contesting , challenging and has written a petition to the Nigerian Police about . Those who disagree with Babalola do so and are doing so -- on the grounds of his method or procedure which enervated the Police to act as it has acted . <p> They are not saying that Aare Babalola has no grounds to allege that Dele Farotimi , the ebullient young lawyer of the Obidient camp , has defamed him . They are saying that one of this country 's ultimate lawyers should have adopted a different procedure or method to prosecute his case and fight for his rights which he is entitled to as Farotimi is equally entitled to his . <p> I am not a Barrister-at-law so I do n't brabble as a brabbler here . Or should I be brabbling as a brabbling brabbler now ? In any case , should the anti-Babalola chaps be allowed to dictate -- as they are dictating -- to him how to go about his complaints/case ? Suddenly they want Babalola to accept that they are better and smarter than him in the matter and business of law . Interesting times are here in your country my country our country ! How disgusting are our interesting times ! How disgustingly interesting and interestingly disgusting ! <p> I have carefully read Aare Afe Babalola 's petition from the beginning to the end several times . I have my opinion which I am keeping to myself on several grounds . I have not read Dele Farotimi 's book so whatever I may utter here may not and will , in fact , not pass as an objective or balanced opinion -- even though I have watched Dele Farotimi 's videos several times on the issue . Besides , the case is in the court already . I do n't want to be accused as an offender of the law . The courts of law , or better , of justice , will deliver their judgments dispassionately and impartially in line with what currently exists as our justice system as our constitution dictates . <p> But let me remark as follows : Whatever the disabilities of each party may be , may they even stand them in good stead in line with the impartial , dispassionate and objective practicability of the lower courts up to the Supreme Court . <p> Public opinion or crowd intimidation or gang up against the top-dog or bottom-dog from which angle anyone views the matter , this burning issue , should not matter and should not come into play or into contention or into consideration . No distractions of whatever colour or of whatever kind should be given any attention whatsoever by the law that is the law . <p> Let me , however , utter what may enter here or should pass here as an anti-conclusion . Let those who want to die or live dangerously Die or " Live Dangerously . " I have in my own peculiar way echoed Friedrich Wilheim Nietzsche ( 1844-1900 ) , German philosopher , poet and critic . The choice is Dele Farotimi 's and Afe Babalola 's . <p> Whatever happens , or , what will or that shall prevail must prevail . Live or un-live dangerously , Oh combatants ! You will leave an everlasting legacy for our age and posterity . I say this as a literary detective in the manner of Nietzsche . <h> Latest <p> If you 're looking for a lucrative way to earn online income , loan affiliate programs are an excellent choice . Whether you 're targeting payday loans or personal loans , these programs can help you monetize your traffic by connecting potential borrowers with lenders . In this guide , I 'll walk you through the top loan affiliate programs , explain how they ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) have secured the conviction of six individuals for offences related to internet fraud , including the possession of fraudulent documents . The cases were prosecuted by the Benin Zonal Directorate of the EFCC The convicts , identified as Precious Okeleke , Austine Iwuner , Saint Felix , Ododo Mathias , Idahosa Kelvin , and Bankole Adaranijo , ... <p> A British man who became a compulsive gambler and shopper after he was prescribed medication for restless leg syndrome has received a ? 70,000 ( $88,000 ) settlement from his doctor , his lawyers said on Friday . Philip Stevens , 66 , was prescribed Ropinirole -- - a dopamine antagonist medication -- in 2017 but was not warned of known possible side ... <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The Federation Accounts Allocation Committee ( FAAC ) , has shared N1.727 trillion among the Federal Government , states , and Local Government Councils ( LGCs ) for November . This is contained in a communiqu ? issued after the FAAC meeting on Thursday in Abuja . According to the communiqu ? , the N1.727 trillion total distributable revenue comprised statutory revenue of N455.354 billion . It also ... <p> Tennis star Jannik Sinner 's doping case will not have a decision from the Court of Arbitration for Sport ( CAS ) before the end of the year , the World Anti-Doping Agency ( WADA ) told AFP . " There will be nothing by the end of the year , " WADA director general Olivier Niggli said in an interview with AFP . The Italian ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A court in France on Friday jailed three rugby players formerly with French side Grenoble for 12 to 14 years over the 2017 gang rape of a student . It sentenced Irishman Denis Coulson , 30 , and Frenchman Loick Jammes , 30 , to 14 years behind bars , and New Zealander Rory Grice , 34 , to 12 years in jail .... <p> The Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN ) has debunked rumours that the old naira notes will no longer be accepted . CBN in a statement confirmed that all naira denominations , including both the old and redesigned versions of the N1000 , N500 , and N200 notes , as well as commemorative and older designs of the N100 note , remain legal ...
