<h> Lagos judiciary honours late Justice Oke-Lawal <p> The Lagos State Judiciary has held a solemn Special Court Session to honour the life and legacy of the Late Hon. Justice Beatrice Oke-Lawal ( retd. ) , who passed away on October 28 , 2024 . The session was held at the High Court in Lagos , gathering members of the judiciary , family , and well-wishers to celebrate Oke-Lawal 's decades of ... <p> Lagos Judiciary honours Late Justice Oke-Lawal <p> The Lagos State Judiciary has held a solemn Special Court Session to honour the life and legacy of the Late Hon. Justice Beatrice Oke-Lawal ( retd. ) , who passed away on October 28 , 2024 . <p> The session was held at the High Court in Lagos , gathering members of the judiciary , family , and well-wishers to celebrate Oke-Lawal 's decades of service to justice , faith , and humanity . <p> In his address , Hon. Chief Judge Kazeem Alogba , represented by Hon. Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye , described her as " a devoted Christian , an accomplished scholar , and a jurist of exceptional integrity . " <p> Meanwhile , Justice Ipaye highlighted her unwavering commitment to the legal profession ; he said , " She was a woman of many paths , a beacon of integrity , and an inspiration to all . " <p> Justice Oke-Lawal 's career cut across several decades , beginning as Deputy Registrar ( Admin ) of the Lagos State High Court from 2000 to 2004 before her elevation as a High Court Judge in 2004 . <p> Among her notable contributions was her acclaimed publication " The Essential Elements Came Final in the Magistrate Courts , " which continues to guide legal practitioners . <p> Justice Ipaye further described her as " a compassionate woman who shared in the burdens of others and worked tirelessly to uplift those in need , " adding , " Heaven has gained an angel , but we have lost a gem . " <p> The Lagos Judiciary mourns her loss but celebrates her enduring impact . " Her life touched countless hearts and upheld the highest standards of justice and humanity , " Justice Ipaye said . <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A Federal High Court in Abuja has approved the extension of court processes in a suit against President Bola Tinubu , Attorney-General and Minister of Justice , Lateef Fagbemi , Senate President , Senator Godswill Akpabio and others , challenging the removal of Justice Danladi Umar as Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal ( CCT ) . Justice James Omotosho , ruling in ... <p> A former UK security minister on Friday said that it was " extremely embarrassing " that a suspected Chinese spy had become a confidant of disgraced royal Prince Andrew . The story dominated the UK 's front pages on Friday , the latest humiliation for a prince whose reputation is already in tatters over his ties to accused sex-offender Jeffrey ... <p> Former Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives , Toby Okechukwu , has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) . In a letter addressed to the PDP Chairman of Owelli/Amoli/Ugbo/Ogugu Ward , Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State , dated December 6 , 2024 , Okechukwu , who represented Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency of Enugu State in the ... <p> The Benue State House of Assembly has ordered Mrs Grace Adagba , Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board ( SUBEB ) , to refund the sum of N2.1 billion to the coffers of the Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs . The decision follows a report of the house ad-hoc committee , which investigated the activities of the ... <p> The Academic Staff Union of Universities ( ASUU ) has tasked the National Assembly to safeguard the Tertiary Education Tax Fund ( TETFund ) from being scrapped under the proposed Nigeria Tax Bill 2024 . The Union is concerned that abolishing TETFund would have severe consequences for Nigeria 's public education system . This is even as it described as ' dangerous and ... <p> The Secretary to the Bauchi State Government , Ibrahim Kashim , has tendered his resignation to Governor Bala Mohammed on Friday . A statement by the media aide to Governor Mukhtar Gidado stated that the Governor has " accepted the resignation of the Secretary to the State Government , Barr . Ibrahim Muhammad Kashim , with immediate effect . " The governor directed his ... <p> In a subtle yet scathing remark , the Senate President , Godswill Akpabio , took a swipe at Rivers State governor , Siminialayi Fubara , and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) during the birthday celebration of the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) , Nyesom Wike , in Port Harcourt , Rivers State on Friday . Akpabio , who was the Special Guest of ...
