<p> In a subtle yet scathing remark , the Senate President , Godswill Akpabio , took a swipe at Rivers State governor , Siminialayi Fubara , and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) during the birthday celebration of the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) , Nyesom Wike , in Port Harcourt , Rivers State on Friday . Akpabio , who was the Special Guest of ... <p> Sen. Godswill Akpabio ... Photo : Lucy Ladidi Elukpo for The Guardian . <p> In a subtle yet scathing remark , the Senate President , Godswill Akpabio , took a swipe at Rivers State governor , Siminialayi Fubara , and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) during the birthday celebration of the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) , Nyesom Wike , in Port Harcourt , Rivers State on Friday . <p> Akpabio , who was the Special Guest of Honour at the event , mocked Fubara 's handling of the ongoing political crisis in the state . <p> The lecture , titled " Pragmatic Strides of a Visionary Leader and Contemporary Issues of Society , " attracted thousands of Wike 's loyalists , friends , and associates . <p> The event , organised by the NEW Associates , a new political movement coined from the initials of the minister 's name , Nyesom Ezenwo Wike , provided a platform for Akpabio to remind Fubara of the importance of maintaining a good relationship with the legislature . <p> Akpabio recognised Martins Amaewhule as the Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly and emphasised that every wise governor or president must find a way to work closely with the leadership of the legislature . <p> Akpabio , who spoke from experience as a former governor of Akwa Ibom State , noted that a governor could only be hurt by the House of Assembly . <p> He advised Fubara to fashion out ways to work with the Speaker , just as he did during his tenure . <p> He said : " For those of you who may not understand politics , we were taught that the parliament can turn a woman into a man and a man into a woman . As a governor , my greatest fear was my House of Assembly . <p> " So because of that , I never travelled anywhere without my Speaker . Any time I did n't see him for a day , I would send somebody to his house to invite him to come and have lunch with me , and I used ideas to look at his face to know whether he was happy with me or not . <p> " The only place that can hurt a governor is the House of Assembly , and no court or democracy can stop that from happening . Any President who wants to survive , like Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu , must hold the speaker and the Senate President very closely the way he is holding us . <p> " Recently , he conferred on us GCON , Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger , whether he loved it or not , he did it . He muscled the two Chambers together . " <p> The Senate President questioned Fubara 's inability to win over some of the 27 lawmakers loyal to Wike , despite having ample resources at his disposal <p> He expressed concern over the politics of betrayal and treachery , noting that such orientation affects sustainability in governance . <p> Akpabio also observed that the lecture delivered by Prof. Julius Ihonvbere , Majority Leader of the House of Representatives , failed to address the critical issue of sustainability . <p> He said : " I do not know what is happening in Rivers State , but I hope that the successor to Wike realises the fact that no matter how the bird flies , the legs are pointing to the ground . <p> " Something must be wrong . Today is not for politics . Today is for Nyesom Wike . But sometimes I wonder , I would never be the governor , given the resources of Rivers State , and then I disagree with my House of Assembly , and I am not able to poach at least one member out of the other group . If I do not do that , it means that there is something wrong with my political philosophy . <p> " I do not care what people say , we must try to stop this politics of betrayal and politics of treachery because it does not allow for good succession . Prof. Julius , in everything you said here , the word that was missing was ' sustainability ' . <p> " You can not have sustainability in good policies and governance when the person taking over from you is interested in not destroying you alone but destroying everything that you built . If you are a politician , note , you must have opposition . As people oppose you , they are also the step you can use to go higher . " <p> Akpabio , however , said when politicians served with dedication , passion , confidence , and an open heart , God would eventually lift them higher . <p> On his part , Akpabio appreciated the NEW Associates and Chairman of the Organising Committee , Senator George Sekibo , for putting the event together , saying he was not bothered about the ongoing criticisms of a few people . <p> He said : " For me , in life , what is important is if you know what you want to do , and you know how you want to do it , then you go ahead . One thing that I can assure all of you here is that we will continue to make you proud . <p> " I will never be distracted . I will still be focused to achieve the results that Nigerians will know that Mr. President means well . Yes , so many people have talked about criticism , I can assure you , it is even people who inform me that people are criticising me . Frankly speaking , because I do not see them and I do n't hear them and I can not reply to them . " <p> Wike , who said he was humbled by the crowd that identified with him , said he was satisfied with the support of President Tinubu . <p> He said all the criticisms were designed by his detractors to distract him , adding that the only way to silence the critics was to achieve results for public interest . <p> He said : " I have told most of you , do not bother about criticisms . What is important for you is to ask yourself if you are focused or if you are doing what is expected of you to do . I tell them , the moment your enemies see that you do not listen to them , and you are focused and are there to achieve results , they will be tired , and when you are being distracted , you are worried , they will say yes , they have now gotten you . <p> " The only way that you can silence your critics is to show them your results . Show them your performance . I am happy that when we were coming last night , I saw the flyovers being painted . I said thank God , so there was work that they are now painting ? I said thank God , there was work that is being painted now . I have said , if you are not important , nobody will talk about you . <p> " So , the support Mr. President is giving to me is enough for me . I do not require anything . The moment I know that my Mr. President is happy , the moment I know that my family is happy , the moment I know that my friends and associates are happy , what is my own ? I just go on . If you can not match up with what we have done , why not come out and say look , let the truth be told . <p> " I do not see anybody that will intimidate or threaten me . I have not seen that person . At the appropriate time we will talk politics ; now is for the project and project in FCT . " <p> Speaking at the event , the national leadership of the PDP , represented by the Deputy National Chairman , South , Taofeek Arapaja , said despite the antics of persons in the party with entitlement mentality , the majority of the people in the PDP loved and appreciated the Minister . <p> He said the members of the party stood with Wike , describing the minister as one of the most committed and loyal party leaders ever produced in the PDP . <p> He said : " Our mentor and principal that we are celebrating today , who has never left the PDP for a day , is one of the most committed , most loyal party leaders we have ever had . He has done well and he is doing well , and we wish him well in future endeavours . <p> " He is somebody who believes in equity , justice , and fairness . Remember , before the 2023 election , he sang a famous song . I used to follow my leader and Osun State Governor Seyi Makinde . Our leader , I still remember the G5 and I am telling you that many people in the PDP appreciate you . We love you because you are always there for us , not only when you need anything , unlike some leaders who come running to us when they need something . <p> " We know you , and we always love you and we appreciate you . Some people believe in entitlement mentality , but we will always stand by you because you led the G5 . You are a man of integrity , a man of honour , and you are a performer . " <p> Arapaja , however , disagreed with some of the remarks of Akpabio against the PDP and wondered why the Senate President , whom he described as a product of the PDP , could attack his party of origin . <p> He said : " The foundation of all political parties is the PDP . So I am surprised when someone who is a product of the PDP comes here and says those things . I do not understand . But that is not politics . Nobody can dispute the fact that the present Senate President was a governor of Akwa Ibom State under the PDP , and he performed . " <p> The Guest Lecturer , Ihonvbere , highlighted the problems of the country as insecurity , unemployment , poor infrastructure , corruption , religious and ethnic factors , as well as poor educational facilities , and said fixing them was not rocket science . <p> " Our problems can be solved . The Nigerian ruling class in fraction will be ashamed that it has not managed any of our problems successfully . We have created millions and billions , but their legacies are hardly sustained . It is not lack of resources but management . Fixing Nigeria is not rocket science . It requires focus and staying the course , " he said . <p> The Chairman of the occasion and former President of the Nigerian Bar Association ( NBA ) , OCJ Okocha , described Wike as a superlative performer with a Midas touch . <p> " This is a man that we have given to Nigeria and we are proud to be his friends and associates . I want to thank us all for organising this public lecture in his honour . Knowing him , he would have opposed it , but I think the pressure on him was too much that his friends won the day and said , let us honour you , " he said . <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A former UK security minister on Friday said that it was " extremely embarrassing " that a suspected Chinese spy had become a confidant of disgraced royal Prince Andrew . The story dominated the UK 's front pages on Friday , the latest humiliation for a prince whose reputation is already in tatters over his ties to accused sex-offender Jeffrey ... <p> Former Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives , Toby Okechukwu , has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) . In a letter addressed to the PDP Chairman of Owelli/Amoli/Ugbo/Ogugu Ward , Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State , dated December 6 , 2024 , Okechukwu , who represented Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency of Enugu State in the ... <p> The Benue State House of Assembly has ordered Mrs Grace Adagba , Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board ( SUBEB ) , to refund the sum of N2.1 billion to the coffers of the Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs . The decision follows a report of the house ad-hoc committee , which investigated the activities of the ... <p> The Academic Staff Union of Universities ( ASUU ) has tasked the National Assembly to safeguard the Tertiary Education Tax Fund ( TETFund ) from being scrapped under the proposed Nigeria Tax Bill 2024 . The Union is concerned that abolishing TETFund would have severe consequences for Nigeria 's public education system . This is even as it described as ' dangerous and ... <p> The Secretary to the Bauchi State Government , Ibrahim Kashim , has tendered his resignation to Governor Bala Mohammed on Friday . A statement by the media aide to Governor Mukhtar Gidado stated that the Governor has " accepted the resignation of the Secretary to the State Government , Barr . Ibrahim Muhammad Kashim , with immediate effect . " The governor directed his ... <p> In a subtle yet scathing remark , the Senate President , Godswill Akpabio , took a swipe at Rivers State governor , Siminialayi Fubara , and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) during the birthday celebration of the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) , Nyesom Wike , in Port Harcourt , Rivers State on Friday . Akpabio , who was the Special Guest of ... <p> Mr Adegoke Fayoade , an Assistant Inspector General of Police ( AIG ) Zone 2 Command , Onikan , Lagos State , has pledged the police 's commitment to improving the quality of its services , particularly in Lagos and Ogun . Fayoade gave the assurance during the Police Christmas carol/End of the Year celebration on Friday at the command headquarters , Onikan , Lagos . The ...
