<h> Congratulations To Namibians : They Get It By <p> One of the pristine truths about being a writer is that even when you are on a self-imposed writing hiatus and deliberately cut off from the world of 24-hour news cycle online , there are some news items that arrest your attention ; whether you are hibernating in the Hollywood movie sets competing with sand dunes of ... <p> Namibia 's incoming President Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah <p> One of the pristine truths about being a writer is that even when you are on a self-imposed writing hiatus and deliberately cut off from the world of 24-hour news cycle online , there are some news items that arrest your attention ; whether you are hibernating in the Hollywood movie sets competing with sand dunes of the ancient city of Ouarzazate in the South of Morocco ; navigating and conquering the stubbornly hilly and cold mountains in East Africa ; breaking delicious coconuts and drinking palm wine in the tropical hinterlands of West Africa 's Nigeria ; or reading Joe Garba 's Diplomatic Soldering whilst the Atlantic Ocean serenades and slaps you with melodious waves which are only synonymous with Swakopmund in Namibia . <p> One such news item was the announcement that the Presidential election in Namibia was won by Mrs Ndemupelila Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah on Tuesday , the third of December 2024 . I was glad for several reasons and I will highlight two of these reasons in this concise piece . <p> The SWAPO veteran politician secured victory with 57 per cent of the electorate votes ( 638,560 votes ) whilst the incoming <p> President 's contender Panduleni Itula , from the Independent Patriots for Change secured 26 per cent of the votes ( 284,186 votes ) . <p> The first time I was in Namibia ( fondly referred to as The Land of The Brave ) was in 2022 and did I have a great time in a few days ? Yes , I did . One of life 's lessons which I endeavour to execute when I can , was gleaned in Namibia during several conversations with a dear friend ( Dr Carmen Nibigira , the foremost tourism expert whom I was sure I first met in Lagos several years ago but later encountered in Kigali when I moved to the East African country ) whose demise on Saturday , November 16 , 2024 shocked me to my core as it did her friends and family members . <p> My first time in Namibia reverberated , so much so that four months after the visit ( professional and personal ) , I could still sense the Namibian enthusiasm in my system . There is something Namibia does to you , the genuine happiness and jolly good disposition of the people whether wealthy , rich , average , managing or poor is infectious . <p> This happy disposition which I was baptised with , had me writing a long article which spanned ten parts and written in rapid successions . Most importantly , my first trip to Namibia culminated in being invited to the State House in Windhoek , to interview the late President Hage Gottfried Geingob whose mentor for forty years was Nigeria 's Professor Adebayo Adedayo ( the man behind the blueprint for ECOWAS , NYSC , the post-civil war blueprint amongst others . <p> He was the Under-Secretary-General and Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa ( ECA ) from 1975 to 1991 . He joined the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the early 1970s as the Cabinet Minister responsible for the economic development and reconstruction of post-civil war . ) <p> Like I have stated in all the Namibian pieces I have written , there was a Pan-African clarity that was illuminated to me during the off-the-record conversation with President Geingob which has stayed with me . <p> Due to my first impressions of Namibia right at the airport where the immigration officials were able to converse in Nigerian pidgin English with me , and the genuine warmth of the people , that singular experience before other amazing experiences have endeared me to The Land of The Brave called Namibia . <p> The second reason is pragmatic and professional . Writers look for brilliant stories to write about . Stories not yet captured or told or perspectives of stories not told yet . <p> As a writer and a global strategic communications consultant who travels within Africa looking for countries with the right and stable economic policies which African investors and Africans in Diaspora can invest their funds in ; Namibia is one of the few countries I had pencilled down years ago and I had been watching . <p> One of the early lessons I have quickly understood as a founder of a global strategic communications firm is that investors , especially African investors , always look at the political stability of a country before they move funds to set up businesses in the said country . <p> No matter the positive economic indices of a country , no matter the positive spin of the mouthpieces of the Governments , African investors always look and ask questions hovering around political stability vis- ? -vis economic stability . <p> One of the lessons learnt from investors who are all about the figures and statistics and who are looking to invest in Africa ; is that when a country 's political stability is n't toyed with or truncated during a transfer of the reins of power ( from one political party to another ) or during general elections ; that country buys herself country/nation branding capital that ricochets and resoundingly reverberates amongst the players and members of the financial world . <p> This is termed investors ' confidence . Now , when the electorate decide to elect a Female President as Namibians have done ( investors ' confidence are on steroids ) , the economic ramifications are better left off this concise piece . <p> In a world where a former Female Secretary of State ( Hillary Clinton ) was not elected in 2016. in a world where one of the most qualified candidates ( female or male ) to ever run for Presidency in the world ( more qualified than Barack Obama ) , check Kamala Harris ' resume ; was not elected in 2024 . <p> Africans need to realise that highly educated and highly qualified women have been Heads of State on the African Continent . Read about Ellen Johnson Sirleaf who was President of Liberia from 2006 to 2018 , she was Africa 's first elected female head of state . Joyce Banda who was President of Malawi from 2012 to 2014 . Sahle-Work Zewde who was the President of Ethiopia from 2018 to 2024 and Ethiopia 's first female President . Read about Ameenah Gurib-Fakim who was President of Mauritius from 2015 to 2018 . <p> Catherine Samba-Panza who was Acting President of the Central African Republic from 2014 to 2016 . Rose Francine Rogomb ? who was Acting President of Gabon in 2009 . Agnes Monique Ohsan Bellepeau who was Acting President of Mauritius in 2012 and 2015 . Sylvie Kinigi who was Acting President of Burundi in 1993 . <p> And as 2024 ends and 2025 begins , Africa will be having two serving Female Presidents : Samia Suluhu Hassan who is the President of Tanzania since March 2021 . And Namibia 's incoming President Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah known as NNNN . <p> Coincidentally , I have been reading Joe Garba 's Diplomatic Soldiering ( The Conduct of Nigeria 's Foreign Policy 1975-1979 ) for an extended period of months and I had just commenced chapter six which was about Nigeria 's role in South Africa via ANC and Namibia via SWAPO ( circa 1975 -1987 ) when the elections in Namibia played out . <p> Joseph Nanven Garba was a Nigerian General , former Foreign Affairs Minister , diplomat , and politician who served as President of the United Nations General Assembly from 1989 to 1990 . In 1975 , he became Nigeria 's representative to the UN General Assembly and was president of the UN Security Council from January 1978 , but he was recalled after Chief Olusegun Obasanjo transitioned to civilian rule , and he was head of the military academy for two years . <p> In 1989 , he resumed his political career as President of the UN General Assembly for its 44th session , and he spoke out against Apartheid . <p> Joe Garba 's extensive report on Namibia commenced on page 112 in chapter six . Considering what the country had to go through to get her independence from the Apartheid-run South Africa back in the day , to electing a Female President in 2024 ( not paying just lip service to women empowerment in all its ramifications ) , one has to chorus " It Is Not Easy " ; a popular hit song released by the Nigerian group Ofege which was formed in the early 1970s by a bunch of teenage secondary school students at the prestigious St. Gregory 's College in the Obalende area of Lagos , Nigeria . <p> From a Nigerian who sees where Namibia is going to , congratulations to Namibia and Namibians . The Land of The Brave . They get it . Dolapo Aina , a Nigerian writer and global strategic communications consultant and founder of The Write Communications , who is based in Kigali , Rwanda . <h> Latest <p> If you 're looking for a lucrative way to earn online income , loan affiliate programs are an excellent choice . Whether you 're targeting payday loans or personal loans , these programs can help you monetize your traffic by connecting potential borrowers with lenders . In this guide , I 'll walk you through the top loan affiliate programs , explain how they ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) have secured the conviction of six individuals for offences related to internet fraud , including the possession of fraudulent documents . The cases were prosecuted by the Benin Zonal Directorate of the EFCC The convicts , identified as Precious Okeleke , Austine Iwuner , Saint Felix , Ododo Mathias , Idahosa Kelvin , and Bankole Adaranijo , ... <p> A British man who became a compulsive gambler and shopper after he was prescribed medication for restless leg syndrome has received a ? 70,000 ( $88,000 ) settlement from his doctor , his lawyers said on Friday . Philip Stevens , 66 , was prescribed Ropinirole -- - a dopamine antagonist medication -- in 2017 but was not warned of known possible side ... <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The Federation Accounts Allocation Committee ( FAAC ) , has shared N1.727 trillion among the Federal Government , states , and Local Government Councils ( LGCs ) for November . This is contained in a communiqu ? issued after the FAAC meeting on Thursday in Abuja . According to the communiqu ? , the N1.727 trillion total distributable revenue comprised statutory revenue of N455.354 billion . It also ... <p> Tennis star Jannik Sinner 's doping case will not have a decision from the Court of Arbitration for Sport ( CAS ) before the end of the year , the World Anti-Doping Agency ( WADA ) told AFP . " There will be nothing by the end of the year , " WADA director general Olivier Niggli said in an interview with AFP . The Italian ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A court in France on Friday jailed three rugby players formerly with French side Grenoble for 12 to 14 years over the 2017 gang rape of a student . It sentenced Irishman Denis Coulson , 30 , and Frenchman Loick Jammes , 30 , to 14 years behind bars , and New Zealander Rory Grice , 34 , to 12 years in jail .... <p> The Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN ) has debunked rumours that the old naira notes will no longer be accepted . CBN in a statement confirmed that all naira denominations , including both the old and redesigned versions of the N1000 , N500 , and N200 notes , as well as commemorative and older designs of the N100 note , remain legal ...
