<h> Tax Reform Bill : ASUU urges NASS to protect TETFund from abrogation <p> The Academic Staff Union of Universities ( ASUU ) has tasked the National Assembly to safeguard the Tertiary Education Tax Fund ( TETFund ) from being scrapped under the proposed Nigeria Tax Bill 2024 . The Union is concerned that abolishing TETFund would have severe consequences for Nigeria 's public education system . This is even as it described as ' dangerous and ... <p> A view of the Nigerian National Assembly premises . ( Photo by KOLA SULAIMON / AFP ) <p> The Academic Staff Union of Universities ( ASUU ) has tasked the National Assembly to safeguard the Tertiary Education Tax Fund ( TETFund ) from being scrapped under the proposed Nigeria Tax Bill 2024 . <p> The Union is concerned that abolishing TETFund would have severe consequences for Nigeria 's public education system . <p> This is even as it described as ' dangerous and unpatriotic ' aspects of the proposed legislation that seeks to cede TETFund funding from the Education Tax to the newly established Nigerian Education Loan Fund ( NELFUND ) . <p> ASUU President , Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke , stated this in a statement on Friday . <p> Prof. Osodeke noted that the far-reaching consequence of the new tax system is that , from 2030 , all funds generated from the Development Levy ( Education Tax ) will be passed to NELFUND . <p> He described the development as not only worrisome but also inimical to our national development objective " because of the potential danger to the survival of TETFund . " <p> Citing Ghana as a case study , the don expressed concern that this is coming at a time when other African countries are borrowing a leaf from Nigeria to set up their intervention agency in the tertiary education subsector . <p> " ASUU notes with serious concern Section 59(3) of the Nigeria Tax Bill ( NTB ) 2024 , which specifically states that only 50 per cent of the Development Levy would be made available to TETFund in 2025 and 2026 , while NITDA , NASENI , and NELFUND would share the remaining percentages . TETFund will also receive 66.7 per cent in 2027 , 2028 , and 2029 years of assessment , " but " 0 per cent in 2030 year of assessment and thereafter , " he said . <p> Osodeke added : " While viewing TETFund as the backbone for infrastructural development , postgraduate training , and research capacity building in Nigeria 's public tertiary institutions in the last one-and-a-half decades , ASUU is compelled by the circumstance to seriously observe that taking any percentage out of the Education Tax ( Development Levy ) to service another agency not known to the TETFund Act 2011 is illegal and should not be allowed to stand ; giving zero allocation of Development Levy to TETFund from 2030 is a technical way of abrogating the agency . The purported admonishment that TETFund should seek innovative ways of generating its funds is spurious and ill-advised because , as a creation of an Act , the institution dies without the fund . <p> " Replacing TETFund with NELFUND is comparable to killing a parent to keep a newborn child alive ; it is unethical and against the principle of natural justice . The impact of TETFund on the campus of every tertiary institution in Nigeria is beyond description ; abrogating it will take public tertiary education many years back and undermine the modest gains in repositioning Nigerian universities for global reckoning and transformative development . <p> " Annual support given to tertiary institutions by TETFund has substantially reduced industrial crises in many tertiary institutions ; renovation of old facilities and provision of new ones , and opportunities for staff development leading to career advancement have doused labour-related agitations on our campuses . " <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A Federal High Court in Abuja has approved the extension of court processes in a suit against President Bola Tinubu , Attorney-General and Minister of Justice , Lateef Fagbemi , Senate President , Senator Godswill Akpabio and others , challenging the removal of Justice Danladi Umar as Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal ( CCT ) . Justice James Omotosho , ruling in ... <p> A former UK security minister on Friday said that it was " extremely embarrassing " that a suspected Chinese spy had become a confidant of disgraced royal Prince Andrew . The story dominated the UK 's front pages on Friday , the latest humiliation for a prince whose reputation is already in tatters over his ties to accused sex-offender Jeffrey ... <p> Former Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives , Toby Okechukwu , has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) . In a letter addressed to the PDP Chairman of Owelli/Amoli/Ugbo/Ogugu Ward , Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State , dated December 6 , 2024 , Okechukwu , who represented Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency of Enugu State in the ... <p> The Benue State House of Assembly has ordered Mrs Grace Adagba , Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board ( SUBEB ) , to refund the sum of N2.1 billion to the coffers of the Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs . The decision follows a report of the house ad-hoc committee , which investigated the activities of the ... <p> The Academic Staff Union of Universities ( ASUU ) has tasked the National Assembly to safeguard the Tertiary Education Tax Fund ( TETFund ) from being scrapped under the proposed Nigeria Tax Bill 2024 . The Union is concerned that abolishing TETFund would have severe consequences for Nigeria 's public education system . This is even as it described as ' dangerous and ... <p> The Secretary to the Bauchi State Government , Ibrahim Kashim , has tendered his resignation to Governor Bala Mohammed on Friday . A statement by the media aide to Governor Mukhtar Gidado stated that the Governor has " accepted the resignation of the Secretary to the State Government , Barr . Ibrahim Muhammad Kashim , with immediate effect . " The governor directed his ... <p> In a subtle yet scathing remark , the Senate President , Godswill Akpabio , took a swipe at Rivers State governor , Siminialayi Fubara , and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) during the birthday celebration of the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) , Nyesom Wike , in Port Harcourt , Rivers State on Friday . Akpabio , who was the Special Guest of ...
