<h> Anarchy in quest of freedom <p> The major subject that has been trending since last week is the Afe Babalola-Dele Farotimi affair . <p> The major subject that has been trending since last week is the Afe Babalola-Dele Farotimi affair . The renowned legal luminary , Chief Afe Babalola , petitioned the police authority in Ekiti State in which he complained that civil rights activist Dele Farotimi defamed him in his book , Nigeria and its criminal justice system . Columnists must be at a crossroads to intervene in a matter the hearing of which has begun in a court of competent jurisdiction . It is a subject of high public interest , but because delving into it by way of ventilating opinions will be prejudicial to fair trial , commentaries are withheld . Therefore , there is a clash of public interest to wade into a matter of reputational nature and the law of prejudicial interference . <p> Lawyers , law scholars and judges are yet to agree on how far commentators can go when a case if filed in court and proceedings begin . A school of thought , in fact , believes that a judge worth the office can not be affected or swayed by the clamour in the public square called commentaries . The Hon. Sir Anthony Mason AC KBE in a speech on The Courts and Public Opinion in 2002 at the National Institute of Government and Laws , said : " The traditional judicial view of the relationship between the law and public opinion was summed up in the line : ' The law is the law is the law . ' " This line " , he went on , " expresses the notion that the law is autonomous set of rules to be applied according to their terms irrespective of community views and opinion . In other words , the law must be applied even if it is contrary to public opinion . " <p> Quoting Judge Zobel who himself had cited the pronouncement of John Adams to a Massachusetts jury in a murder case , Sir Anthony said the law is inflexible , inexorable and deaf ; inexorable to the cries of the defendant , deaf as an adder to the clamour of the populace . According to him , John Adams ' words would ring true 227 years later : " Judges must follow their oaths and do their duty , heedless of editorials , letters , telegrams , picketers , threats , panelists and talk shows . In this country we do not administer justice by plebiscite . " <p> That being so , I reflected long . I was torn between going full blast into the matter between Babalola and Farotimi and withholding my intervention since court proceedings have started . Remembering that I am in a different clime , I decided that waiting would be in line with journalism practice in our country . I am not in the U.S. or Britain . Writing an opinion in Nigeria on what is before the court will be tantamount to sub-judice and regarded as prejudicial to fair trial . <p> But what is at issue ? According to Babalola , the defamation of his character arose from a land sale and ownership tussle . It involved 254 hectares sold to Gbadamosi Bamidele Eletu family far back in 1977 by Ojomu family . The parcel of land was acquired by Lagos State Government . The Ojomu family contested the acquisition in court and won . It then proceeded to court to argue that with the victory the land title had come back to them . The Eletu family to whom the land had been sold before the acquisition kicked . Giving bite to their protest their struggle with the Ojomu family dragged to the Supreme Court . The Emmanuel Chambers of Afe Babalola represented the Eletu family at the Supreme Court and the Eletu family won . In the judgment delivered on 13 July , 2013 , the Supreme Court held as follows : <p> " Where a party has fully divested himself of all interest in land , no right vests in him to deal with the same property by way of further alienation anymore , he is caught by the maxim , nemo dat quod non habet ; that is , he can not give what he no longer has . In the instant case , it was unfortunate that the respondents claimed title to the whole of their family land compulsorily acquired by the Lagos State Government including the portion earlier sold to the father of the appellants and in which they are in effective possession . The claim so made without disclosing the truth and excluding the said portion so sold was clearly made in bad faith and smacked of insincerity . It was very unconscionable and consequently against the principles of equity and good conscience . " The Supreme Court also held that " A court of law should not allow itself to be used as an engine for the perpetration of fraud , in whatever guise . " <p> The Justice who wrote the lead judgment committed an error by limiting the land of Eletu to 10 hectares and not 254 hectares sold to Eletu . But the error was corrected through a motion and the entire 254 hectares were recovered when the attention of the Supreme Court was promptly drawn to it . The Supreme Court in a ruling delivered on 18 March , 2024 , granted statutory right of occupancy to the Eletu family . The Emmanuel Chambers allege that their client then employed the services of a company to enforce judgment before the Babalola firm applied for variation suspecting that their client did so to avoid paying the Chambers ' professional fees . <p> Several estates on the extensive land and individuals were affected by the judgment . The affected estates filed fresh suits against the Eletu family with the aim , according to Afe Babalola , of frustrating the judgment of the Supreme Court . The state Government waded in fearing that the judgment might lead to massive dislocation and sought to prevent the breakdown of law and order . Farotimi was legal counsel to one of the affected estates . Several meetings were held and Eletu family was compensated by the Lagos State Government . The Afe Babalola Chambers were displeased with the Eletu family accusing it of agreeing to be lured by the estates into settling some of the suits behind them . <p> Farotimi must have his version of how he got enmeshed in the bitter fray with Chief Babalola . If excerpts from his book which Chief Babalola quoted extensively in his petition to the police are any pointers , Chief Babalola could not have had any choice but to invite the police and complain of criminal defamation . The excerpts are unbelievably shocking and mind-choking . Farotimi must have unassailable evidence to back his pronouncements . I do pray so . Grievances are one thing the language in ventilating them is another . Afterall , even in anger , there could be grace ! Chief Babalola is 95 ; he has listed his enthralling achievements and contributions to public good as well as his involvement in the development of the country -- as a lawyer of standing , a philanthropist and an educationist . <p> I have read all manner of reactions to the blow-out between the two men -- Chief Babalola and Farotimi -- with many wondering why Babalola has chosen to settle for criminal defamation . Why did he not go for civil defamation and pursue the case quietly ? They justify their concern with the wide circulation the problematic book is gaining in local and international markets , notably through the Amazon reach . The expanding markets can only provide more materials for Chief Babalola to prove his case that the damage to his name and standing is enormous and has gone beyond the shores of Nigeria . At 95 and still agile , Chief Babalola has been well blessed with a long life . Criminal defamation will enable the case to go on if he were to be called away and the case is not yet concluded . But if it is civil defamation , the case will terminate with his exit from earthly life and it would leave a reputational burden for his children , grand children and great grandchildren to grapple with as legacy hanging around their necks interminably wherever they may go in life . <p> Any innocent error by any of them will rekindle memories of their great grandfather . " Oh , really ? No wonder he is the son of Afe Babalola who polluted our otherwise reputable judiciary . " That is the troubling testimonial they will carry forever . That he corrupted the Supreme Court is one of the issues Babalola wants proven in the court at the moment . There are more horrendous allegations against the Chief . The damage being in a book is permanent ! In other words , Chief Babalola has no choice but to take steps he has elected and get the book withdrawn from circulation as much as practicable . It is when he is cleared by the court that his family , his grandchildren and succeeding generations will be able to walk the streets freely anywhere with their heads raised high . <p> Farotimi is the chief priest in the shrine of the Obidients and they are tireless noise makers . They have consequently succeeded in mobilising quite a crowd against Chief Babalola , in Nigeria and overseas . They have not read Chief Babalola 's petition which through propaganda they fear that Farotimi 's challenge is an attempt to silence him , their chief spokesman . They are unaware that Afe Babalola himself is among prominent South-West ( Yoruba ) leaders who carry Peter Obi on their heads . He said in the heat of the campaigns , for example , that Peter Obi was the best of the presidential candidates . <p> It has to be made plain that in these times , the unique End-Time , we can not wade through anarchy in the quest for freedom . In the eye of the law , no one can behave without consideration for the borderline . Laws are what regulate all societies and everyone must be made to settle for due process and the rule of law when we are aggrieved . The society will descend to a jungle without the curb of the law and if everyone says or does whatever he likes with scant or absolute disregard to law the society will be courting disaster ; the overall health of the society will be jeopardized . <p> All this is even as far as the earthly is concerned . Unknown to a great many human beings , every negative word against man that lowers his esteem in the eyes of his fellowmen will avenge itself most severely and bitterly through the Laws of Nature . To assail him in like manner in thoughts attracts no less a consequence . Thoughts attach themselves to the object of our looks or thinking , these attract similar thought forms from others to form power centres of evil . If pure it is different . <p> We may all have experienced a situation when a person on whom we fix our gaze suddenly turns round to look back . That is the power of thought . In the end the fellow assailed with impure thoughts is poisoned when the thought forms become denser and he is pressed down with the weight of the dross that accumulates on his soul . All who may have contributed to defiling and degrading the fellow through the threads arising from their filthy thoughts linking them will pay dearly for their acts . They raise cudgel over matters they know nothing about . <p> Consequently they robe themselves in out of ignorance . Before the laws of the Creator ignorance is no defence . Things are worse with libel or defamation . For , damaging a man 's name or reputation is tantamount to the killing of the inner man , the real man , his essence . As I have said some time ago every man or woman is the name he bears . Any dirt thrown at a name is filth thrown at the essence of man . In other words , in the ethereal world we refer to as the Beyond defamation is a capital offence and the fate of such a person involved is no less grave than what a person who committed murder on earth faces in the Beyond . <p> Account is not taken of the earthly justice or injustice or of punishment even if it is execution except ab initio there is miscarriage of justice . So when we brag about power of revolution and we cause our fellow men harm , we are only deceiving ourselves . We can not , therefore , be too careful about what we say and do , about our conduct . All have consequences beyond man 's earthly existence . Adamant is the Law . Divine Laws otherwise called the Laws of Nature permit of no excuses . They govern the entire Creation , returning to everyone as harvest what he may have sown in Creation . <p> Kemi Adeosun , a lady of honour IT must take a heart of steel to foray into Nigerian politics . The way things are , it is an arena for the survival of the fittest , as they say , where the man of muscle is the hero and the man of might , the man of means -- fair or foul -- and the man who shouts the loudest , all have the hope of being kings . This situation will remain for several years to come . It is a period foreseen and foretold : It would be a time of perplexities . It is when masters at our sins would be our rulers . This proclaims to us that it is a period a great many decent men would steer clear of the rumbling in the jungle . <p> I salute the few gentlemen who stretch out their heads for the guillotine in their desire to serve us . It is an arena false transgressions would be drawn up , adumbrated and you would be shown the way to your father 's house . It has not always been like that . The decline from the standard of the time of yore when men of honour imbued with the spirit of service bestrode the firmament is palpable . It is in this contrasting putrid age Kemi Adeosun accepted to serve , evidently unaware of her environment . <p> It could even be worse for women . Ab initio , political contestation is not for them . Their active participation in politics is a misadventure that does incalculable harm to them and mankind in general . That there is a worldwide clamour by them and for them to break the glass ceiling , as in the words of Hilary Clinton , does not make it right . The richness of their spiritual make-up which links them more firmly with Nature for a flow of abundant Light radiations from higher realms to unhinge men from the grip of Darkness and for their nurture with civilising tonic , does not lend itself to the rumble and tumble of politics . The make-up is reflected even outwardly such that while men are coarse and sturdy , women are fine and delicate ! <p> The reader may wonder why I am bringing up Kemi Adeosun ' matter at this time . It is because the embattled civil right activist Dele Farotimi has claimed , while pointing at the rot and inequality in the land , said Kemi Adeosun forged her NYSC certificate and instead of being in prison she was Minister of the Federal Republic . While she served the country with impunity , someone else in a similar situation went to jail . <p> I write to say and defend Kemi Adeosun as I did in 2018 that the wide claim against her was false . The column will be re-run in full next week . <h> Latest <p> If you 're looking for a lucrative way to earn online income , loan affiliate programs are an excellent choice . Whether you 're targeting payday loans or personal loans , these programs can help you monetize your traffic by connecting potential borrowers with lenders . In this guide , I 'll walk you through the top loan affiliate programs , explain how they ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) have secured the conviction of six individuals for offences related to internet fraud , including the possession of fraudulent documents . The cases were prosecuted by the Benin Zonal Directorate of the EFCC The convicts , identified as Precious Okeleke , Austine Iwuner , Saint Felix , Ododo Mathias , Idahosa Kelvin , and Bankole Adaranijo , ... <p> A British man who became a compulsive gambler and shopper after he was prescribed medication for restless leg syndrome has received a ? 70,000 ( $88,000 ) settlement from his doctor , his lawyers said on Friday . Philip Stevens , 66 , was prescribed Ropinirole -- - a dopamine antagonist medication -- in 2017 but was not warned of known possible side ... <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The Federation Accounts Allocation Committee ( FAAC ) , has shared N1.727 trillion among the Federal Government , states , and Local Government Councils ( LGCs ) for November . This is contained in a communiqu ? issued after the FAAC meeting on Thursday in Abuja . According to the communiqu ? , the N1.727 trillion total distributable revenue comprised statutory revenue of N455.354 billion . It also ... <p> Tennis star Jannik Sinner 's doping case will not have a decision from the Court of Arbitration for Sport ( CAS ) before the end of the year , the World Anti-Doping Agency ( WADA ) told AFP . " There will be nothing by the end of the year , " WADA director general Olivier Niggli said in an interview with AFP . The Italian ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A court in France on Friday jailed three rugby players formerly with French side Grenoble for 12 to 14 years over the 2017 gang rape of a student . It sentenced Irishman Denis Coulson , 30 , and Frenchman Loick Jammes , 30 , to 14 years behind bars , and New Zealander Rory Grice , 34 , to 12 years in jail .... <p> The Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN ) has debunked rumours that the old naira notes will no longer be accepted . CBN in a statement confirmed that all naira denominations , including both the old and redesigned versions of the N1000 , N500 , and N200 notes , as well as commemorative and older designs of the N100 note , remain legal ...
