<h> Court stops arrest of Kano gov 's spokesman amid Ganduje 's allegations <p> A High Court has granted a restraining order against the Inspector General of Police ( IGP ) , DSS , and other security agencies from arresting Malam Sanusi Bature Dawakin-Tofa , the spokesperson of Governor Abba Kabir Yusuf . The interim injunction , granted on 12th December 2024 , shields Dawakin-Tofa from " harassment , detention , and intimidation " by the IGP , DSS , and other security ... <p> A High Court has granted a restraining order against the Inspector General of Police ( IGP ) , DSS , and other security agencies from arresting Malam Sanusi Bature Dawakin-Tofa , the spokesperson of Governor Abba Kabir Yusuf . <p> The interim injunction , granted on 12th December 2024 , shields Dawakin-Tofa from " harassment , detention , and intimidation " by the IGP , DSS , and other security agencies . <p> The order was also extended to the Assistant Inspector General of Police ( AIG ) Zone 1 , Commissioner of Police Kano , SP Mojirade Obisiji , DCP Akin Fakorede , Nigerian Civil Defence and Security Corps , and others . <p> The legal reprieve follows allegations by Dr Abdullahi Ganduje , acting National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress ( APC ) , who accused Dawakin-Tofa of orchestrating his suspension at the APC ward level six months ago . <p> The controversy erupted after Ganduje alleged a conspiracy spearheaded by Dawakin-Tofa , who hails from the same local government as Ganduje , and the New Nigeria People 's Party ( NNPP ) -led Kano State Government . Ganduje claimed they were behind his impending suspension , a move he described as an attempt to cripple his political influence . <p> This confrontation , rooted in a longstanding power struggle between Kano 's two most prominent political figures , has further strained the already tense relationship between Ganduje and Governor Yusuf . <p> Dawakin-Tofa , through his legal counsels led by Barr . Haruna Musa Muhammad , countered the invitation with a lawsuit , describing it as a politically motivated move designed to tarnish his reputation and disrupt his duties . <p> The animosity between Dawakin-Tofa and Ganduje dates back nine years to 2015 when Ganduje , as governor-elect , reportedly ordered Dawakin-Tofa 's arrest over his opposition during that year 's gubernatorial election . <p> According to suit No . K/M2500/2024 , the order of the Court prohibits any action that could infringe upon Dawakin-Tofa 's fundamental rights to liberty , dignity , and freedom of movement . <p> The court also directed that all legal documents be served to the respondents , including the APC and senior police officers , through special bailiffs . <p> In this latest twist , Ganduje allegedly briefed the IGP that Dawakin-Tofa was the mastermind behind his suspension by the APC ward executives . Consequently , a team of 40 police officers from the IGP Monitoring Unit was reportedly mobilized to Kano with the sole aim of apprehending the governor 's spokesperson after he declined the IGP 's invitation . <p> Efforts to reach the Force Public Relations Officer , Olumuyiwa Adejobi , were unsuccessful , as calls and text messages to his phone went unanswered . <p> Similarly , Dawakin-Tofa declined to comment on the matter , stating that it is already before the court . <p> The case is adjourned to 22nd January 2025 for a hearing on the substantive motion . <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A Federal High Court in Abuja has approved the extension of court processes in a suit against President Bola Tinubu , Attorney-General and Minister of Justice , Lateef Fagbemi , Senate President , Senator Godswill Akpabio and others , challenging the removal of Justice Danladi Umar as Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal ( CCT ) . Justice James Omotosho , ruling in ... <p> A former UK security minister on Friday said that it was " extremely embarrassing " that a suspected Chinese spy had become a confidant of disgraced royal Prince Andrew . The story dominated the UK 's front pages on Friday , the latest humiliation for a prince whose reputation is already in tatters over his ties to accused sex-offender Jeffrey ... <p> Former Deputy Minority Leader of the House of Representatives , Toby Okechukwu , has resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) . In a letter addressed to the PDP Chairman of Owelli/Amoli/Ugbo/Ogugu Ward , Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State , dated December 6 , 2024 , Okechukwu , who represented Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency of Enugu State in the ... <p> The Benue State House of Assembly has ordered Mrs Grace Adagba , Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board ( SUBEB ) , to refund the sum of N2.1 billion to the coffers of the Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs . The decision follows a report of the house ad-hoc committee , which investigated the activities of the ... <p> The Academic Staff Union of Universities ( ASUU ) has tasked the National Assembly to safeguard the Tertiary Education Tax Fund ( TETFund ) from being scrapped under the proposed Nigeria Tax Bill 2024 . The Union is concerned that abolishing TETFund would have severe consequences for Nigeria 's public education system . This is even as it described as ' dangerous and ... <p> The Secretary to the Bauchi State Government , Ibrahim Kashim , has tendered his resignation to Governor Bala Mohammed on Friday . A statement by the media aide to Governor Mukhtar Gidado stated that the Governor has " accepted the resignation of the Secretary to the State Government , Barr . Ibrahim Muhammad Kashim , with immediate effect . " The governor directed his ... <p> In a subtle yet scathing remark , the Senate President , Godswill Akpabio , took a swipe at Rivers State governor , Siminialayi Fubara , and the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) during the birthday celebration of the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory ( FCT ) , Nyesom Wike , in Port Harcourt , Rivers State on Friday . Akpabio , who was the Special Guest of ...
