<h> Nigeria-France economic partnership deals must go beyond signatures <p> Agreements for the renewal of economic cooperation recently signed by President Bola Tinubu with France 's President Emmanuel Macron pose much significance beyond the ordinary . <p> FILE France 's President Emmanuel Macron ( R ) and his Nigerian counterpart Bola Tinubustand at attention during a welcoming ceremony at the Invalides in Paris , on November 28 , 2024 , as part of Tinubu 's state visit to France . ( Photo by Michel Euler / POOL / AFP ) <p> Agreements for the renewal of economic cooperation recently signed by President Bola Tinubu with France 's President Emmanuel Macron pose much significance beyond the ordinary . First , it may signpost a new and improved era of relationship and development for the two countries , above the present level . However , if necessary caution is not observed , the agreements may aggravate suspicions in some quarters of ill motives that may be detrimental to the unity and progress of Nigeria and the West African sub-region . What is required is transparency and forthrightness on the part of the two countries to assure that the ultimate beneficiaries of the pacts are the people of Nigeria and France . <p> While the signing of agreements to renew economic ties between the two countries is cheery for both countries , these agreements must be such that will produce tangible results for Nigerians . They should not end as rhetoric or a glitz organised for the optics . <p> On December 2 , 2024 , Tinubu embarked on a three-day state visit to France , seeking to increase economic cooperation with Paris . That was the first state visit to France by a Nigerian leader in more than two decades . During the visit , Nigeria and France signed two major deals , including a $300 million pact to develop critical infrastructure , renewable energy , transportation , agriculture , security and healthcare in Nigeria . <p> Both nations also agreed to increase food security and develop Nigeria 's solid minerals sector . Also , two Nigerian banks , Zenith Bank and the United Bank for Africa ( UBA ) signed agreements to expand their operations into France . The President 's Special Adviser on Information and Strategy , Mr Bayo Onanuga , said President Tinubu emphasised Nigeria 's flourishing financial sector as a facilitator for foreign investment , particularly from French enterprises , as part of the drive to bolster food security . Tinubu reportedly explained that he was also looking to build ties in education , youth engagement , innovation and energy transition . <p> On the other hand , Macron 's office said the trip is " an opportunity to deepen the already dynamic relationship between France and Nigeria , " adding that both leaders would also address " shared values concerning finance , solid minerals , communication , trade and investment . <p> On the surface , the deals look promising , but their details are opaque and therefore call for caution . Nigerians want to know the deliverables properly reviewed by experts in those specific areas to avoid embarrassment to the country in future . This should be a partnership of equals , and not one skewed to favour the European nation more at Nigeria 's disadvantage . It must not be a master-servant relationship . Already , such a relationship has been the undoing of France in West Africa . <p> It is appreciated that since President Tinubu has been trying to attract investments to boost Nigeria 's ailing economy , he possibly saw the French visit as an opportunity , leveraging his relationship with Macron in his ( Tinubu 's ) days as governor of Lagos State . More so , President Macron had sought a renewed relationship in Africa following frosty ties with former colonies Niger , Mali and Burkina Faso in West Africa . <p> Paris is seeking to expand its influence in the continent to include English-speaking nations after those allies cut ties with France and swerved towards Russia . Paris ' gravitation towards English-speaking Africa signals Macron 's desire to reverse the country 's declining influence on the continent , with visits to Nigeria in 2018 , Ethiopia in 2019 and South Africa in 2021 . <p> But why did those countries sever ties with France ? They accused France of wielding overbearing political and economic influence on them . If truly France is overbearing on its African allies , will Nigeria , another African country , have a different treatment after cementing this cooperation ? <p> What exactly is Nigeria 's interest in France , which is losing its grip on its former West African allies and seems desperate to relaunch itself into Africa ? Are these agreements really necessary , because Nigeria is already France 's top trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa ? Nigeria was France 's number one trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa in 2023 , followed by South Africa , according to the French customs authority . <p> Although it is believed that France still holds significant sway in African trade despite competition from China , India , and Turkey , her current rating in Africa is not exactly rosy . France is being seen as unduly exploiting mineral resources across the Sahel , in a manner suggestive of an undermining of the best interest of those countries . Nigeria should therefore be sufficiently wary to develop enough checks to make sure that the agreements signed will generally be in the interest of both countries and not a one-sided agreement . <p> Considering the uncomplimentary roles France is believed to have played in the crises in countries like Chad , Niger , Mali , and Burkina Faso ; coupled with her long history of involvement in the Sahel region , it remains a negative that countries associated with France have been grappling with poverty and insecurity . <p> However , it is cheery that since Nigeria has no colonial history with France , her future relationship with France is not expected to be defined by France 's fractured relationship with the Sahel . Nevertheless , any ties between Nigeria and France may be viewed suspiciously concerning the progress of the Economic Community of West African States ( ECOWAS ) countries , of which Nigeria is a leader . <p> Therefore , as a leader of ECOWAS , Nigeria should naturally exercise caution going into alliance with any country whose policies are considered offensive by some members of the bloc . The alignment with Russia by military-controlled Mali , Niger and Burkina Faso , have clashed with ECOWAS policies . As a result , these member states have pulled out of the bloc threatening to disintegrate it . Therefore , the interest of these former French allies should also be considered , especially as ECOWAS is still wooing them back into the fold . <p> Curiously , President Tinubu is obviously in love with France . That 's his preferred country for medical tourism . Before , during and after his election , the President usually does not miss the opportunity to visit France for medical checks , treatments or vacation . Again , the president seems to be comfortable with some French business partners . <p> By and large , Nigerians are far more eager for a robust and flourishing economy , and they hope that these pacts will make that happen . <h> Latest <p> If you 're looking for a lucrative way to earn online income , loan affiliate programs are an excellent choice . Whether you 're targeting payday loans or personal loans , these programs can help you monetize your traffic by connecting potential borrowers with lenders . In this guide , I 'll walk you through the top loan affiliate programs , explain how they ... <p> The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC ) have secured the conviction of six individuals for offences related to internet fraud , including the possession of fraudulent documents . The cases were prosecuted by the Benin Zonal Directorate of the EFCC The convicts , identified as Precious Okeleke , Austine Iwuner , Saint Felix , Ododo Mathias , Idahosa Kelvin , and Bankole Adaranijo , ... <p> A British man who became a compulsive gambler and shopper after he was prescribed medication for restless leg syndrome has received a ? 70,000 ( $88,000 ) settlement from his doctor , his lawyers said on Friday . Philip Stevens , 66 , was prescribed Ropinirole -- - a dopamine antagonist medication -- in 2017 but was not warned of known possible side ... <p> A Dutch court on Friday rejected demands by pro-Palestinian groups for a ban on arms exports from the Netherlands to Israel . The non-governmental groups had accused Israel of conducting a " genocide " in its war in Gaza . But the court said the Dutch government was respecting rules governing the country 's arms trade . " The state should not ... <p> The Federation Accounts Allocation Committee ( FAAC ) , has shared N1.727 trillion among the Federal Government , states , and Local Government Councils ( LGCs ) for November . This is contained in a communiqu ? issued after the FAAC meeting on Thursday in Abuja . According to the communiqu ? , the N1.727 trillion total distributable revenue comprised statutory revenue of N455.354 billion . It also ... <p> Tennis star Jannik Sinner 's doping case will not have a decision from the Court of Arbitration for Sport ( CAS ) before the end of the year , the World Anti-Doping Agency ( WADA ) told AFP . " There will be nothing by the end of the year , " WADA director general Olivier Niggli said in an interview with AFP . The Italian ... <p> The special brigade of the Nigerian Army has neutralised scores of Lukurawa bandits and destroyed about 22 camps in Sokoto and Kebbi states . The Theatre Commander of Operation FANSAN YAMMA , Maj.- Gen. Oluyinka Soyele , disclosed this to the newsmen on Friday in Sokoto . Speaking through the Acting General Officer Commanding ( GOC ) , 8 Division of Nigerian ... <p> Governor Chukwuma Soludo of Anambra has promised to build an Olympic size Stadium in the state , to improve sports facilities and promote grassroots sports development . Soludo , who was represented by Dr Law Mefor , Commissioner for Information , made the disclosure at the 2024 Sports Writers Association of Nigeria ( SWAN ) Week in Awka on Friday . The SWAN ... <p> A court in France on Friday jailed three rugby players formerly with French side Grenoble for 12 to 14 years over the 2017 gang rape of a student . It sentenced Irishman Denis Coulson , 30 , and Frenchman Loick Jammes , 30 , to 14 years behind bars , and New Zealander Rory Grice , 34 , to 12 years in jail .... <p> The Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN ) has debunked rumours that the old naira notes will no longer be accepted . CBN in a statement confirmed that all naira denominations , including both the old and redesigned versions of the N1000 , N500 , and N200 notes , as well as commemorative and older designs of the N100 note , remain legal ...
