<h> US sees ' cautious optimism ' on reaching Gaza ceasefire <p> The United States said Tuesday it felt " cautious optimism " on the prospects of reaching a ceasefire in the 14-month war in Gaza , although it acknowledged that similar hopes had been dashed before . Hamas on Tuesday said that talks mediated by Qatar were " serious and positive , " a day after Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz described the ... <p> Palestinians watch smoke billowing as they wait for a food portion at a distribution centre south of Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip on December 17 , 2024 , amid the ongoing war between Israel and the Palestinian Hamas movement . ( Photo by BASHAR TALEB / AFP ) <p> The United States said Tuesday it felt " cautious optimism " on the prospects of reaching a ceasefire in the 14-month war in Gaza , although it acknowledged that similar hopes had been dashed before . <p> Hamas on Tuesday said that talks mediated by Qatar were " serious and positive , " a day after Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz described the two sides as closer to a deal than ever before . <p> " I think cautious optimism is a fair way to characterize it , though very much tempered by realism , " State Department spokesman Matthew Miller told reporters . <p> " There have been times before where we were close and we thought the differences were bridgeable , and ultimately we did n't get a deal , " Miller said . <p> " All the United States can do is push and try to come up with compromises , but we can not dictate to either side what choice they have to make ; they have to make those decisions for themselves . " <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken has paid 12 visits to the Middle East since the massive October 7 , 2023 , attack by Hamas on Israel , which has responded with a relentless military campaign . <p> In August , Blinken warned in Israel that it was " maybe the last " chance for a deal , which would free hostages seized by Palestinian militants . <p> On his latest visit , Blinken said that Hamas appears to have moderated its positions after seeing major losses inflicted by Israel on the interests of Iran , a major patron of the group . <p> " The cavalry is not coming to the rescue . They are not going to get the wider war that they long sought , " Blinken said Saturday in Aqaba , Jordan . <p> Blinken on his trip also encouraged Turkey , the home to many Hamas leaders even though Ankara recognizes Israel , to use its influence on the group to encourage acceptance of a deal . <p> The Minister of Aviation and Aerospace Development , Mr Festus Keyamo , on Tuesday , performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the Abia Airport project . In a speech at the event held at Ubaha-Nsulu in Isiala Ngwa North Local Government Area , Keyamo said that the project was upgraded from an airstrip to an international cargo airport . He described the airport ... <p> Kano State Government has spent N1.6 billion on the upgrading of slaughterhouses in 20 local government areas of the state . The project was executed through the State Agro-Pastoral Development Project(KSADP) , in collaboration with development partners namely , Islamic Development Bank(IDB) , Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and Qatar Foundation . Other partners in the project were:King Salman Humanitarian and ... <p> The manufacturer of the recalled batch of Deekins Amoxycilin 500mg capsule is in custody , says the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) . Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye , the Director-General of the agency , confirmed this on Tuesday at a news conference in Lagos . On Dec. 11 , NAFDAC notified the public of the recall of ... <p> The National Security Adviser ( NSA ) , Malam Nuhu Ribadu , says effective arms control requires strong legal framework , enduring partnerships , continuous training , resource allocation and shared sense of responsibility . Ribadu said this at a workshop on " Review of the Firearms Act of 1959 " , organised by the National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons ... <p> The Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ) has officially recognised Sylvester Ezeokenwa as the national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance ( APGA ) , following a protracted leadership dispute . The commission 's decision comes in compliance with a recent Supreme Court judgment delivered on 27 November 2024 , which settled the longstanding battle for APGA 's leadership . The legal struggle ... <p> President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo , Nze Ozichukwu Chukwu , has urged the Igbo to ensure that only quality men and women with outstanding pedigree are elected to the National Executive Committee ( NEC ) of Ohanaeze Ndigbo , come January 10 , 2025 . He explained that the Igbo are one of the leading lights of Africa and for that trajectory ... <p> Gov . Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa has approved a new education policy , geared toward improving learning environment , increasing enrollment and academic security in the state . The governor was represented by his deputy , Prof. Kaletapwa Farauta , at the ceremony on Tuesday in Yola . Fintiri , however , expressed optimism that the new policy would ensure every child has access ... <p> The United States said Tuesday it felt " cautious optimism " on the prospects of reaching a ceasefire in the 14-month war in Gaza , although it acknowledged that similar hopes had been dashed before . Hamas on Tuesday said that talks mediated by Qatar were " serious and positive , " a day after Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz described the ... <p> The military chief of Syria 's victorious Islamist group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , said on Tuesday it would be " the first " to dissolve its armed wing and integrate into the armed forces . " In any state , all military units must be integrated into this institution , " Murhaf Abu Qasra , known by his nom de guerre Abu Hassan al-Hamawi , said ... <p> The Sokoto State House of Assembly on Tuesday passed the state 's 2025 Appropriation Bill of N526.9 billion The bill was passed during the assembly 's plenary session after the Chairman , House Committee on Finance and Appropriation , Alhaji Abdullahi Zakari ( APC-Rabah ) , presented the committee 's report . The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) recalls that Gov . Ahmed Aliyu presented ...
