<h> Palestinian families sue US government over military aid to Israel <p> Five Palestinian families on Tuesday sued the State Department over Washington 's billions in military aid to Israel , demanding the enforcement of US rules to curb arms flows due to allegations of human rights abuses . The complaint , filed on Tuesday and to which the State Department has 60 days to respond , calls for the implementation of ... <p> Signs at a news conference on the death of Aysenur Ezgi Eygi outside the US Capitol in Washington , DC , on December 17 , 2024. -- Eygi was shot on September 6 , 2024 , while taking part in a demonstration against Israeli settlements in the northern part of the occupied West Bank . Her killing sparked international outrage , particularly from Ankara , further inflaming tensions over the war in Gaza . The Israeli army acknowledged opening fire in the area and said it was investigating the shooting . ( Photo by Allison ROBBERT / AFP ) <p> Five Palestinian families on Tuesday sued the State Department over Washington 's billions in military aid to Israel , demanding the enforcement of US rules to curb arms flows due to allegations of human rights abuses . <p> The complaint , filed on Tuesday and to which the State Department has 60 days to respond , calls for the implementation of the so-called Leahy Law , which the plaintiffs and rights group say Israel has been illegally exempted from . <p> The law prohibits the provision of security assistance to units facing credible allegations of human rights abuses . <p> Since the start of Israel 's war against Hamas in October 2023 , the United States has enacted legislation to provide more than $12.5 billion in direct military aid to its strategic ally . <p> The war was sparked by an attack by Hamas on Israel that resulted in the deaths of at least 1,208 people , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally based on official Israeli figures that includes hostages killed in captivity . <p> Israel 's retaliatory campaign has killed at least 45,059 people in Gaza , most of them civilians , according to figures from the Hamas-run territory 's health ministry which the United Nations considers reliable . <p> Much of the Palestinian enclave has been reduced to rubble in the process . <p> At a press conference in Washington on Tuesday , Palestinian-American plaintiff Said Assali said his aunt and her six children were killed in an Israeli airstrike on Gaza City , alleging US weapons were used to carry out the attack . <p> " Our families paid an unbearable price for the State Department 's refusal to enforce its own laws , " said Assali . <p> -- ' Israel exception ' -- <p> Two former State Department staffers told journalists US authorities apply an informal " Israel exception " when assessing the country 's military actions . <p> " The reality is that Israel operates under a different set of rules . The State Department has created this unique , burdensome , high-level process for determining ( that ) applies only to Israel , " said Charles Blaha , a former State Department official who worked on such determinations . <p> Josh Paul , who resigned from the State Department last year in protest of US policy on Gaza , offered a similar assessment . <p> The State Department declined to comment on the filing of the complaint . <p> Earlier this month , rights group Amnesty International accused Israel of " committing genocide " against Palestinians in Gaza since the start of the war . <p> In November , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant on suspicion of crimes against humanity and war crimes . <p> Israel 's government vehemently denies the allegations , and has appealed the warrants . <p> Ahmed Moor , a plaintiff in Tuesday 's lawsuit , said seven of his family members in Gaza were living " under a constant fear of bombardment , " and that one had been killed . <p> " My family members are people just like you and me , and their lives have been destroyed by American weapons in direct violation of American law , " he said . <p> The Minister of Aviation and Aerospace Development , Mr Festus Keyamo , on Tuesday , performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the Abia Airport project . In a speech at the event held at Ubaha-Nsulu in Isiala Ngwa North Local Government Area , Keyamo said that the project was upgraded from an airstrip to an international cargo airport . He described the airport ... <p> Kano State Government has spent N1.6 billion on the upgrading of slaughterhouses in 20 local government areas of the state . The project was executed through the State Agro-Pastoral Development Project(KSADP) , in collaboration with development partners namely , Islamic Development Bank(IDB) , Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and Qatar Foundation . Other partners in the project were:King Salman Humanitarian and ... <p> The manufacturer of the recalled batch of Deekins Amoxycilin 500mg capsule is in custody , says the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control ( NAFDAC ) . Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye , the Director-General of the agency , confirmed this on Tuesday at a news conference in Lagos . On Dec. 11 , NAFDAC notified the public of the recall of ... <p> The National Security Adviser ( NSA ) , Malam Nuhu Ribadu , says effective arms control requires strong legal framework , enduring partnerships , continuous training , resource allocation and shared sense of responsibility . Ribadu said this at a workshop on " Review of the Firearms Act of 1959 " , organised by the National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons ... <p> The Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ) has officially recognised Sylvester Ezeokenwa as the national chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance ( APGA ) , following a protracted leadership dispute . The commission 's decision comes in compliance with a recent Supreme Court judgment delivered on 27 November 2024 , which settled the longstanding battle for APGA 's leadership . The legal struggle ... <p> President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo , Nze Ozichukwu Chukwu , has urged the Igbo to ensure that only quality men and women with outstanding pedigree are elected to the National Executive Committee ( NEC ) of Ohanaeze Ndigbo , come January 10 , 2025 . He explained that the Igbo are one of the leading lights of Africa and for that trajectory ... <p> Gov . Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa has approved a new education policy , geared toward improving learning environment , increasing enrollment and academic security in the state . The governor was represented by his deputy , Prof. Kaletapwa Farauta , at the ceremony on Tuesday in Yola . Fintiri , however , expressed optimism that the new policy would ensure every child has access ... <p> The military chief of Syria 's victorious Islamist group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , said on Tuesday it would be " the first " to dissolve its armed wing and integrate into the armed forces . " In any state , all military units must be integrated into this institution , " Murhaf Abu Qasra , known by his nom de guerre Abu Hassan al-Hamawi , said ... <p> A New York architect believed to be responsible for a series of murders on Long Island has been charged with a seventh homicide , that of a woman whose remains were found in 2000 , prosecutors said Tuesday . Rex Heuermann had already been charged with the murders of six women whose bodies were found near Gilgo Beach ... <p> The Sokoto State House of Assembly on Tuesday passed the state 's 2025 Appropriation Bill of N526.9 billion The bill was passed during the assembly 's plenary session after the Chairman , House Committee on Finance and Appropriation , Alhaji Abdullahi Zakari ( APC-Rabah ) , presented the committee 's report . The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) recalls that Gov . Ahmed Aliyu presented ...
