<h> PunchNG Menu : <h> AU 's lethargy in Sudan <p> HOW bad will things get in Sudan before the African Union intervenes ? The death toll has been in the tens of thousands since the war started in April 2023 . Over 10 million people have been forced from their homes , some in displacement camps , some seeking refuge in neighbouring countries . About 26 million Sudanese , about half of the country 's population , are at risk of mass starvation . Yet , at best , the AU 's response is lethargic and lacking intent or purpose . <p> The fighting between the Sudanese Armed Forces led by Abdel Fattah al-Burham , and the Rapid Support Forces under Mohamed ' Hemdti ' Hamdan has brought the country to its knees . Over 70 per cent of its healthcare system has collapsed and the outbreak of preventable diseases is common . <p> More than 19 million children no longer have classrooms to attend as about 90 per cent of the schools are shut . Hospitals and displacement camps are bombed out . <p> Where is the continent 's foremost body as the North African country burns ? How many more people will die or be displaced , and how many women and girls will be violated before the AU is moved to take decisive action to put the Sudanese people out of their misery ? <p> When the war started , it was the United States and the Saudis that got the rival generals to sign a 72-hour ceasefire after intense negotiations . All the AU could do was issue press statements , urging the warring forces to uphold the truce . <p> The 55-member continental organisation with a lofty mandate has not shown any clear desire to initiate a peace process and follow it through . As the conflict wore on , the UN , European and Asian countries weighed in , seeking an end . But the AU largely remained aloof . <p> At its launch in July 2002 in Durban , South Africa , as the successor to the rested Organisation of African Unity , the AU made lofty mandate claims . It pledged to seek increased cooperation and integration of African countries and drive their growth and development . <p> It said it would be guided by a vision of " an integrated , prosperous and peaceful Africa , " pledging to " promote peace , security , and stability on the continent . " It said it would advance democratic principles and institutions , popular participation , and good governance . The organisation even aspired to " end all wars and civil and violent conflicts " by " silencing the guns by 2020 . " <p> However , since the long and brutal reign of Omar al-Bashir , Sudan has had no peace or stability , and neither has its people enjoyed democracy . They have been denied popular participation and good governance . Al-Bashir has been thrown out of power by the monsters he created who still ravage Sudan . Unfortunately , the AU has shown little will to tame them . <p> Global attention is on Gaza and Ukraine , not Sudan , despite the initial and brief intervention of the Americans and the Saudis . <p> Therefore , Africa must sort out its problems by itself . Most countries south of the Sahara are in a mess . Nigeria is in an economic tailspin . Coups in Niger , Mali , and Burkina Faso , north of its border , underscore the instability in those countries , which have broken away from ECOWAS . <p> Apart from South Africa and a handful of other countries , sub-Saharan Africa is in bad shape . This offers the AU an opportunity to live up to its mandate and redeem the continent . It must start with Sudan . <p> The AU can pull international levers and mount pressure on China , Iran , Serbia , and the United Arab Emirates to stop shipping arms and other military equipment to Sudan 's warring generals . <p> The continental body should explore non-military ways to end the war and raise funds to support democratic forces in Sudan , protect civilians and get food and other necessities across to the displaced and hungry . <p> The AU must shed the outlook of shadow actors and commentators with little impact . <p> All rights reserved . This material , and other digital content on this website , may not be reproduced , published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH . <p> STOP ? ? ? ? Are you ready to unlock your financial future ? ? ? Start trading with IQ Options and seize the opportunity to grow your wealth TODAY ! ? ? ? ? With just a few clicks , you could make smarter moves and achieve more . ? ? ? Act now ! Tap here to begin your journey with IQ Option ! ? ? ? ? <p> GAME-CHANGER : ? ? The clock is ticking -- every second counts in the world of trading ! ? ? ? IQ Options empowers you to make informed decisions , trade smarter , and achieve more . ? ? ? ? Step up your game today ! Click here to start trading now ! ? ? ? ?
