<h> Fintiri targets children with new education policy in Adamawa <p> Gov . Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa has approved a new education policy , geared toward improving learning environment , increasing enrollment and academic security in the state . The governor was represented by his deputy , Prof. Kaletapwa Farauta , at the ceremony on Tuesday in Yola . Fintiri , however , expressed optimism that the new policy would ensure every child has access ... <p> " This policy is not just a document ; it is a strategic roadmap that will guide our efforts in delivering quality education to our children . <p> " It embodies our aspirations for an inclusive , equitable , and innovative education system that prepares our learners for the challenges and opportunities of the 21st century , " he said . <p> The governor also acknowledged the challenges in the state education sector , saying the new policy was aimed at addressing infrastructure , enrollment and drop-out related problems with immediate effect . <p> Fintiri , therefore , urged education stakeholders , development partners , traditional and community leaders to support his government toward achieving the desired objectives of the policy . <p> Dr Umar Pella , the state Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development , said the policy was a reflection of the governor 's commitment to ensuring that no child was left behind regardless of his or her background . <p> According to Pella , the policy will provide access to education for the vulnerable and underserved populations , among others . <p> Mr Abubakar Sadiq , the Director CATAI , described the policy as a new era for educational excellence in Adamawa . <p> Mexico has asked the United States to extradite the suspected mastermind behind the murder of journalist Javier Valdez after he was arrested on drug charges , the attorney general said . Damaso Lopez Serrano , known as " Mini Lic , " is accused of ordering the 2017 killing of Valdez , an award-winning journalist and AFP contributor who covered the narcotics ... <p> Three Venezuelan police officers , a businessman and a forensic expert were on Tuesday sentenced to prison terms of between 15 and 20 years for complicity in the 2015 murder of rapper Canserbero . Tyrone Gonzalez , or Canserbero , as he was better known , died in 2015 at the age of 26 in a fall from the 10th ... <p> Authorities announced a nighttime curfew Tuesday to curb looting after a devastating cyclone hit the French overseas territory of Mayotte , with the country 's prime minister warning the death toll could rise . According to the latest toll from the interior ministry , 22 people are confirmed to have been killed and 1,373 injured by Cyclone Chido when ... <p> Media watchdog Reporters Without Borders ( RSF ) on Tuesday accused Kenyan telecoms firm Safaricom of pressuring a leading media group following a report that it was involved in police surveillance . The Nation Media Group published an investigation in October that accused Safaricom of handing customer data to the security forces to track suspects . RSF said Safaricom ... <p> Gov . Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa has approved a new education policy , geared toward improving learning environment , increasing enrollment and academic security in the state . The governor was represented by his deputy , Prof. Kaletapwa Farauta , at the ceremony on Tuesday in Yola . Fintiri , however , expressed optimism that the new policy would ensure every child has access ... <p> The United States said Tuesday it felt " cautious optimism " on the prospects of reaching a ceasefire in the 14-month war in Gaza , although it acknowledged that similar hopes had been dashed before . Hamas on Tuesday said that talks mediated by Qatar were " serious and positive , " a day after Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz described the ... <p> Japanese auto giants Honda Motor and Nissan Motor will enter talks on a merger aimed at helping them compete against Tesla and other electric vehicle makers , newspaper Nikkei reported early Wednesday . The two firms are looking to operate under a single holding company and will soon sign a memorandum of understanding for the new entity , ... <p> The military chief of Syria 's victorious Islamist group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , said on Tuesday it would be " the first " to dissolve its armed wing and integrate into the armed forces . " In any state , all military units must be integrated into this institution , " Murhaf Abu Qasra , known by his nom de guerre Abu Hassan al-Hamawi , said ... <p> A New York architect believed to be responsible for a series of murders on Long Island has been charged with a seventh homicide , that of a woman whose remains were found in 2000 , prosecutors said Tuesday . Rex Heuermann had already been charged with the murders of six women whose bodies were found near Gilgo Beach ... <p> The Sokoto State House of Assembly on Tuesday passed the state 's 2025 Appropriation Bill of N526.9 billion The bill was passed during the assembly 's plenary session after the Chairman , House Committee on Finance and Appropriation , Alhaji Abdullahi Zakari ( APC-Rabah ) , presented the committee 's report . The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) recalls that Gov . Ahmed Aliyu presented ...
