<h> Fade out : Biden disappears into background <p> In the twilight of his political career , Joe Biden is disappearing into the background even before Donald Trump returns to the White House , despite growing turmoil at home and abroad . The 82-year-old US president 's silence on a looming government shutdown over Christmas is just the latest example of how critics say the aging leader is ... <p> WASHINGTON , DC -- DECEMBER 16 : U.S. President Joe Biden speaks during a Hanukkah holiday reception in the East Room of the White House on December 16 , 2024 in Washington , DC . During the reception , Biden spoke on a range of topics , including his commitment to continue working towards the release of hostages still being held from the October 7th attack on Israel by Hamas . Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images/AFP ( Photo by Anna Moneymaker / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / Getty Images via AFP ) <p> In the twilight of his political career , Joe Biden is disappearing into the background even before Donald Trump returns to the White House , despite growing turmoil at home and abroad . <p> The 82-year-old US president 's silence on a looming government shutdown over Christmas is just the latest example of how critics say the aging leader is in office but not in power . <p> Despite still occupying the world 's most powerful pulpit , Biden has remained virtually absent from the public debate about his noisy successor whom he often used to brand as a threat to democracy . <p> While Biden stays largely off the radar , it is Trump who increasingly calls the shots , whether by carrying out his own shadow foreign policy or by torpedoing a deal to fund the government . <p> " This is a Biden problem to solve ! " Trump said on his TruthSocial network Friday . <p> A White House spokesperson declined to comment on whether Biden would take any action on the shutdown when asked by AFP , pointing instead to a written statement by his Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre on Thursday . <p> Jean-Pierre said Biden supported an original bipartisan funding agreement " not this giveaway for billionaires . " <p> -- ' Sprint to the finish ' -- <p> It was always going to be a painful exit for Biden , after he was forced to drop out of the 2024 election in June following a disastrous debate against Trump . <p> He handed over the Democratic nomination to Vice President Kamala Harris yet was widely reported to have believed that he could have succeeded where she failed against the Republican . <p> The White House insists that Biden is in what his chief of staff Jeff Zients called a " sprint to the finish line " to preserve his legacy before the January 20 handover of power . <p> In recent weeks he has unveiled a string of last-gasp efforts to " Trump-proof " policies on everything from student loan forgiveness to the economy . <p> He gave televised speeches to hail a ceasefire in Lebanon and to claim credit for the fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad -- while his administration is still pushing for a truce in Gaza . <p> In an article for the American Prospect website , Biden said he wanted to " take stock " of his economic achievements . <p> " It will take years to see the full effects in terms of new jobs and new investments all around the country , but we have planted the seeds that are making this happen , " he said . <p> Yet sometimes his efforts have often underscored how America 's oldest president is fading away more than going out with a bang . <p> Biden coughed throughout what was meant to be a showpiece speech to trumpet his economic legacy last week , and which came shortly after a lively Trump press conference . <p> He has meanwhile embarked on foreign trips that were meant to highlight his status as a global statesman and reassure allies unsure what Trump 's return meant for them . <p> The effect was sometimes the opposite . <p> -- ' Diminished ' -- <p> Biden appeared frail in a trip to the Amazon during which he momentarily looked like he was wandering off into the jungle , and missed a group photo with G20 leaders in Brazil when they refused to wait for him . <p> In Angola , making a long-promised first trip of his president to sub-Saharan Africa , Biden appeared to be resting his eyes for several periods during a summit , while Angola 's president took him by the arm to guide him up a short flight of steps . <p> Moreover , the man who was once one of the most garrulous politicians in Washington has been almost silent in the face of reporters ' questions . <p> Biden has in particular declined to say whether he still believes Trump remains a threat to democracy , despite repeatedly condemning the Republican during the campaign for his actions during the January 6 , 2021 attack on the US Capitol . <p> He has also refused to comment on perhaps his most prominent act since the election defeat , a pardon for his troubled son Hunter on gun and tax charges . <p> The sense of a Biden fade-out has not been helped by a proliferation of stories in US media about his decline . <p> The Wall Street Journal reported this week that White House gatekeepers built a wall around a " diminished " Biden during his presidency , keeping meetings short and controlling access . <p> The White House denied that Biden had declined physically or mentally , it said . <p> France began withdrawing soldiers from Chad on Friday , the country 's defence ministry said , after N'Djamena last month abruptly ended military cooperation with the former colonial power . A contingent of 120 soldiers left for France from a military airport in the capital , the ministry said in a statement on Facebook , 10 days after French fighter aircraft ... <p> South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday signed a disputed education law on languages in schools , after reaching an agreement with his initially opposed coalition partner . The dispute over the Basic Education Laws Amendment ( BELA ) earlier this year was the first major test of the government of national unity , forged after May elections in which ... <p> The Federal Road Safety Corps ( FRSC ) , Ondo State Command , has prosecuted no fewer than 29 drivers for violating traffic rules and regulations on highways in the state . FRSC arraigned the offenders through a mobile court presided by Chief Magistrate Adetutu Mayowa-Idowu on Friday in Akure . The offenders were charged with several offences including dangerous driving , ... <p> The UK and Mauritius vowed Friday to reach a historic treaty as soon as possible to hand control of the strategic Indian Ocean Chagos Islands to the Mauritians . The two sides have held " a series of productive , ongoing conversations and exchanges " to finalise the deal " as quickly as possible " , a joint statement said . They were ... <p> In the twilight of his political career , Joe Biden is disappearing into the background even before Donald Trump returns to the White House , despite growing turmoil at home and abroad . The 82-year-old US president 's silence on a looming government shutdown over Christmas is just the latest example of how critics say the aging leader is ... <p> France 's President Emmanuel Macron faced accusations of racism Friday over an alleged comment on problems in hospitals , which his office strongly denied he made , adding to controversy over an angry remark during a visit to an Indian Ocean territory ravaged by a cyclone . With Le Monde daily printing a sequence of articles about the behind-the-scenes ... <p> Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky pleaded with boxing star Oleksandr Usyk to be gentle with British rival Tyson Fury in their world heavyweight clash in case a battering delivers a knockout blow to a crucial arms deal . Usyk defeated Fury in May to become the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world and the two men meet ... <p> Everton manager says he has the backing of the club 's new owners and is not under any extra pressure as he enters the final six months of his contract . The US-based Friedkin Group completed their takeover of the Premier League club on Thursday , ending a turbulent period at Goodison Park under the control of British-Iranian ... <p> Family , friends , and well-wishers converged in Abuja , the nation 's capital , to celebrate the remarkable achievement of Nigeria 's Martina Abang Chukwuma-Ezike , who became the first black woman to be elected as the Lord Rector of the University of Aberdeen in its 500-year history . The Cross River-born CEO of the Asthma and Allergy Foundation , Scotland , United Kingdom , ... <p> As part of efforts to cushion the effects of the economic reforms facing Nigerians , especially the residents of Ijebu Ode/Odogbolu/Ijebu North-East Local Government Areas of Ogun State , a member representing the Ijebu Central Federal Constituency , Femi Ogunbanwo , popularly called " Omo-Iwa , " has empowered over 1,500 women and youths by procuring equipment for their businesses . Items distributed ...
