<p> The International Criminal Court ( ICC ) at The Hague might have felt compelled to issue its seemingly dramatic arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , and Hamas 's military chief Mohammed Deif on charges of alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity in Gaza . Whether the action can translate to peace in the war-torn region remains doubtful , considering the many complications , including that of execution of the warrants , that have been consequently thrown up . Give and take , peace remains the only desirable issue in Gaza . <p> The ICC claims the issuance of the arrest warrants is necessary to protect witnesses and safeguard the conduct of investigations into the alleged crimes . The court 's Chief Prosecutor Karim Khan had , in May 2024 , requested the court to issue arrest warrants for Netanyahu and Gallant over these allegations . The warrants severely restrict Netanyahu and other Israeli officials ' ability to travel abroad , as the ICC 's 124 member states are obligated to arrest them if they enter their territories . <p> Expectedly , the Palestinian militant group Hamas hailed the issuance of the arrest warrants , calling it an " important step towards justice ... However , it remains limited and symbolic unless supported by all countries worldwide , " said Hamas . <p> It is important to bring an immediate end to the Israeli-Palestinian war in Gaza . The war has caused immense pain globally and significant human casualties among combatants and civilians in Gaza . Since the current conflict erupted , millions of people around the world are uncertain not only about their futures but also about the future of the planet . Their anxiety stems from the fact that any of the combatants in Gaza or their allies could take actions that might trigger a Third World War . Therefore , the leaders of Israel and Palestine have a responsibility to ensure that this catastrophic war does not cause irreversible damage to the planet . <p> It should be recalled that since Hamas militants carried out an unprovoked attack against Israel -- described as the deadliest in Israeli history -- on October 7 , 2023 , resulting in the deaths of 1,206 people , mostly civilians , the death toll in Gaza has continued to rise . The Hamas government claims that at least 44,056 people have been killed in more than 13 months of conflict . <p> With the ICC issuing warrants for the arrest of Netanyahu and others over alleged crimes against humanity , an end to the war appears uncertain . So far , Israel 's response to the ICC arrest warrants signals a likely prolongation of the conflict . Israel has denied committing war crimes in Gaza , claiming that the UN and associated bodies , such as the ICC , are biased against the country . Referring to the 19th Century Dreyfus affair , in which a Jewish army captain was wrongfully convicted of treason in France , Netanyahu accused the ICC of anti-Semitism , calling it " a modern-day Dreyfus trial . " " The anti-Semitic decision of the ICC is comparable to the modern-day Dreyfus trial -- and it will end the same way , " said Netanyahu . Israel 's Foreign Minister Gideon Saar declared in addition that the ICC 's order was " absurd ... and without authority ... even though Israel is not a member of the court . " <p> Granted , the ICC can issue an arrest warrant for any individual , including heads of state like Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , if certain conditions are met . However , whether it is legal , feasible , or politically practical depends on several factors , such as jurisdiction , legal grounds , and international politics . Israel could challenge the ICC 's authority and jurisdiction over its actions , particularly by arguing that Israel is not a party to the Rome Statute ( the ICC 's founding treaty ) , meaning the ICC does not have automatic jurisdiction over crimes committed in Israel or by its nationals . Additionally , Israel could argue that the ICC lacks jurisdiction over its citizens and actions , especially since the statehood of the Palestinian Territories is politically disputed , even though in 2021 , the ICC ruled it had jurisdiction over the Palestinian Territories ( Gaza , the West Bank , and East Jerusalem ) , which many international bodies consider occupied territories . <p> Even if sufficient evidence makes it legally possible for the ICC to issue arrest warrants for Netanyahu and others , political , diplomatic , and enforcement challenges could make such warrants difficult to execute in practice . The United States ( a non-member of the ICC ) , which strongly supports Israel and has often criticized the ICC , could complicate enforcement efforts . And Israel could also push for resolutions in the UN Security Council or General Assembly to denounce the ICC 's actions as politically motivated . <p> Besides , under international law , Netanyahu and others need be formally charged , tried , and convicted by a competent court before they can be deemed guilty under international law , Currently , investigations by the ICC and other international bodies are ongoing , and no formal charges have been brought against Netanyahu . <p> Under Article 51 of the UN Charter , Israel could argue , and indeed she has been so arguing , that its military actions in Gaza and the West Bank are acts of self-defense against groups like Hamas , which many countries recognize as a terrorist organization . Netanyahu could claim that these operations were necessary to protect Israeli citizens from rocket attacks , terrorism , and other security threats . However , the principle of proportionality prohibits excessive use of force that causes disproportionate harm to civilians compared to the military advantage gained . The ICC has previously issued arrest warrants for sitting leaders , such as Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir for alleged genocide in Darfur and Russian President Vladimir Putin in 2023 for alleged war crimes in Ukraine . <p> What is crucial now in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in Gaza is bringing the war to an end . Instead of issuing arrest warrants that may exacerbate the situation , the ICC could explore renewed peace negotiations or facilitate peace talks aimed at ending the conflict . Ending the war in Gaza is critical to the future of global human society . The ongoing tragic loss of life demands an urgent solution . <p> Notably , U.S. President-elect Donald Trump has expressed a desire to end the war upon his inauguration . Genuine efforts toward peace in Gaza could reduce the conflict , minimize the ICC 's involvement , and ultimately bring the war to an end . Common humanity dictates that an end is brought to the bloodshed in Gaza . Both Israel and Palestine have a responsibility to ensure their descendants can live in peace for the benefit of all humanity . <h> Latest <p> Usyk is relentless . He 's refusing to leave Fury alone and is peppering him with shots . Fury does briefly step in to land a 1-2 to Usyk 's body , but he seems caught in two minds . The pair then smash their heads together in a messy exchange but , thankfully , there is no damage to either man .... <p> Usyk is so hard to slow down . He just keeps marching forward . Fury dominated that last round but Usyk does n't yet seem to be feeling the pace of the fight and he immediately goes on the attack . Fury does lead another good lead left hook , which he follows with a right to the body , but ... <p> Usyk stepped up the attacks to the body in that last , he 'll be hoping they have some accumulative damage as the fight progresses. , Fury keeps standing his ground , but he 's not firing too many shots -- and he 's yet to find those right uppercuts that worked so well for him in the opening rounds of ... <p> Fury doubles up on the jab , then cuffs Usyk with a left hook. , Usyk is doing a good job staying away from Fury 's lead right hand so far . He 's moving his head well , feinting , stopping Fury from launching anything too damaging. , They come together a shuddering clinch but quickly separate. , Usyk targets the body as ... <p> The Nigeria Customs Service ( NCS ) , Ogun Area 1 Command , says it will intensify its efforts toward combating smuggling and protecting the borders . The newly appointed Area Comptroller , Mr Ahmad Shuaibu , said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN ) on Saturday in Ota , Ogun . Shuaibu said that there was need for advanced ... <p> Usyk looking serene Fury took his time getting to the ring , soaking up the atmosphere . He shadow boxes a little in the ring as we wait for Usyk to make his entrance . Usyk looks ice-cool but menacing as he swiftly makes his way to the ring . READ ALSO:Fury vs . Usyk : Boxing aficionados pick who will ... <p> Fresh report emanating from Riyadh says Tyson Fury has told his promoter Frank Warren that he wants a third fight with Oleksandr Usyk even if he claims the crown in their title fight on Saturday . The United Kingdom-born challenger immediately called for a rematch , as part of the fight 's terms , after the first bout but ... <p> @Itunu Fury vs . Usyk : Boxing aficionados pick who will win ? Here 's the hot take from three legendary boxers -- current and former -- as to who might win tonight between Fury and Usyk . Daniel Dubois , IBF heavyweight title holder ( Picks Fury ) Dubois , against all odds , defeated Anthony Joshua and is the man ... <p> The last bout that precedes Usyk versus Fury 's bout has been won and lost after Itauma knocked out McKeane halfway through the round . Well , that did n't last long ! No doubt that many , many more fans will know who Moses Itauma is after his first-round knockout of Demsey McKean just now . READ ALSO:Live build-up : Who is ... <p> Television cameras have revealed what Tyson Fury 's dressing room looks like as he gets his hands taped ahead of the fight . It 's the first sighting of either boxer ahead of the main event . Fury appeared fully focused -- as he promised he would be for this fight . No joking around this time ! READ ALSO:Live ...
