<h> Christians Must Be The Light In A Corrupt Society -- Bishop Kukah <h> The Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese , Matthew Kukah , has called on Christians in Nigeria to live up to their calling as the " light of the world " and to take responsibility for fostering a better society . <p> In his Christmas message delivered on Wednesday , the revered cleric urged Christians to lead by example in addressing the corruption and moral decay prevalent in the country , rather than placing blame on institutions or public servants . <p> " I appeal to Christians not to forget that we are the light of the world , the city on the hill that can not be hidden . Christians must not allow the structural weaknesses , the foibles and failures of the Nigerian state , to become an excuse for doing wrong . <p> " We can not continue to blame the Constitution , the Judiciary , the Police , or other public servants for the corruption in our society , " Bishop Kukah said . <p> He noted that corruption is another word for not keeping the words and promises made by Christians at baptism . <p> " We swore to be faithful to Christ at baptism before we encountered the Constitution . The Constitution is a human instrument with limitations and flaws . However , the Word of God is a divine command and inerrant . Good Christians have the laws of God written in their hearts ( 2 Cor. 3:3 ) They need no other law , " he added . <p> On the day Christians all over the world celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ , Bishop Kukah reminded them that the message of Jesus to the world is , peace , joy , love , justice and reconciliation . <p> He lamented that the forces of secularism are determined to empty Christmas of its core essence which is the good news of joy and light to the world . <p> " Christmas is increasingly being seen as another holiday or at best , one of the greatest opportunities for smart business returns . We have refused to accept the warning of Jesus that we can not serve two masters ( Matt. 6:2 ) . Today , our world is ravaged by the effects of the seven deadly sins , Pride , Greed , Lust , Envy , Gluttony , Wrath , and Sloth . <p> " The world has lost its moral compass , and violence has engulfed our world . The drums of war and death now threaten to drown the good news of the joy that Jesus brought into the world . Nowhere is this tragedy better expressed than in the place where Jesus was born . <p> " Today , the baby Jesus lies not in the innocence of swaddling clothes in Bethlehem but in the pool of blood that has now engulfed Gaza and its surrounding communities , " Kukah said . <p> He noted that Christmas offers Christians a time for deep personal reflections on the values and virtues of the Christian witness . <p> While noting that note that some progress has been made in the area of security in Nigeria in his message , Bishop Kukah , however , noted that " we are not out of the woods yet . <p> " A comprehensive work plan to secure our nation , with clear datelines , must be put in place . Insecurity is the first child of corruption . We can not win the war against insecurity without addressing the issues of unemployment and violent religious extremism which create the conditions for violence . <p> " Religious extremism can only be resolved if the government employs the force of the law and prosecutes the perpetrators as criminals and murderers . " <p> The Bishop also reflected on the tragedies of stampede that happened in Oyo State , Anambra and Abuja recently , stating that the failures of government to respond concretely toward ending the horrible crisis of hunger and desperation has created the conditions for these avoidable tragedies . <p> While noting that it is the duty of government to ensure minimum dignity for our people , Bishop Kukah urged the government to work more closely with institutions that help to promote the common good of our society . <p> He prayed that God grants eternal rest to the dead and console their families .
