<h> WHO leader present in Yemen during Israeli airstrikes on Houthis <p> The head of the World Health Organisation ( WHO ) was caught in the middle of Israeli airstrikes whilst at an airport in Yemen . This happened as Israel launched a major attack against the Houthi group , which has been firing weapons at Israel to support Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The WHO Director-General , Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus , was about to leave Sanaa airport when the attacks happened . One of his plane 's crew members was hurt in the strikes . Israel attacked several Houthi targets , including the airport and three ports on Yemen 's western coast . <p> The Israeli military also hit two power stations ( Hezyaz and Ras Kanatib ) and military buildings at the ports of Hodeidah , Salif , and Ras Kanatib . According to Houthi TV , two people died at the airport , one person died at Ras Issa port , and eleven others were injured . <p> Dr Ghebreyesus described how close he was to the attack : " The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few metres from where we were -- and the runway were damaged . " He and his team survived unhurt . <p> The Houthis have been causing problems for international shipping for over a year , forcing ships to take longer , more expensive routes , which could make prices rise worldwide . Israel wants European countries to label the Houthis as terrorists , calling them part of " the Iranian axis of terror . " <p> This attack came after the Houthis successfully hit the Tel Aviv-Jaffa area in Israel on Saturday , hurting 14 people . Israel 's leader Benjamin Netanyahu promised to strike back , saying : " I have instructed our forces to destroy the infrastructure of Houthis because anyone who tries to harm us will be struck with full force . We will continue to crush the forces of evil with strength and ingenuity , even if it takes time . " <p> The United Nations Security Council will meet on Monday to discuss the Houthi attacks against Israel . <p> Business Day , established in 2001 , is a daily business newspaper based in Lagos . It is the only Nigerian newspaper with a bureau in Accra , Ghana . It has both daily and Sunday titles . It circulates in Nigeria and Ghana
