<h> When chosen by war , you 've no right to choose peace , By Owei Lakemfa <p> The New Year 2025 promises to be full of conflicts , most of them avoidable . The hottest spot might be in the Middle East where fierce proxy conflicts are going on with Israel at the centre . Only the na ? ve would think that the wars Israel has been involved are entirely fought by it , whereas that country is a proxy of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation ( NATO ) . <p> It is backed by the war machine of the West mainly run by the United States ( US ) , United Kingdom , UK and France . They provide Israel with intelligence , embedded soldiers , missiles and anti-missile shields , military hardware and , of course , funds . On 13 August , the Department of State announced that the US alone had approved a $20 billion weapons package to Israel which includes advanced air-to-air missiles and fighter jets . <p> Those countries also have their warships on the side of Israel . Such warships include the American USS Wasp , USS New York and USS Oak Hill while the UK has its Royal Navy and Royal Air Force . On its part , France , has the Languedoc and Alsace warships in the area which can come to Israel 's aid as it did when Iranian missiles were fired at Israel . This is why Israel is enabled to carry out genocide in Gaza and the West Bank , and attacks in Lebanon , Yemen , Syria and Iran . <p> The new year may also reveal whether Iran has been seriously weakened by the loss of Syria to the terrorists and their founders in the West , the Israeli attacks against Hezbollah and Yemen . Whatever the case , Iran has its hypersonic missiles intact even as its nuclear programme progresses . Next to the conflict in the Middle East is the Russo-Ukrainian War which has witnessed the bombing of gas pipelines , introduction of higher grade missiles , the continued use of mercenaries from across the world and the reported introduction of North Korean troops . <p> There is the senseless war in Sudan in which troops from the same armed forces , nationality , religion , language and culture are engaged in a siblings conflict . Its only parallel , in terms of stupidity , is the 36-year conflict in Somalia . Another that comes a bit close is the 13-year civil war in Libya ignited and controlled by NATO . In West Africa , the conflicts are mainly against terrorists and bandits with Nigeria being the main centre . Some of the countries , namely Burkina Faso , Mali and Niger have entered into a military and economic alliance to fight the criminals . <p> They have also expelled France which not only exploits the situation in those countries , but also plays a double game . Partly for these reasons , countries like Chad and Senegal have joined in expelling the French military , while , disturbingly , Nigeria is getting closer to the same France . The conflicts in the Democratic Republic of Congo , DRC , which became complicated when the USA , UK and Belgium organised the ouster and execution of founding Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba on January 17 , 1961 , are still raging . <p> The DRC 's main sin is that it has huge mineral resources . The low intensity combats in the Central African Republic , CAR , took ethnoreligious dimensions in 2013 . It is still simmering . One country that has strenuously tried not to be involved in armed conflicts is China despite having territorial disputes with countries like Japan , Taiwan , Vietnam , India , Brunei , Malaysia and the Philippines . It has also refused to take the bait of the US to draw it into an economic war . China 's strength lies in this and advancing its economic interests and powers as is evident in the Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa , BRICS+ alliance . <p> Article Page with Financial Support Promotion <h> Nigerians need credible journalism . Help us report it . <p> Support journalism driven by facts , created by Nigerians for Nigerians . Our thorough , researched reporting relies on the support of readers like you . <p> Help us maintain free and accessible news for all with a small donation . <p> Every contribution guarantees that we can keep delivering important stories -- no paywalls , just quality journalism . <p> A unique country that has strenuously avoided war and has tried to be friends with all humanity is Cuba . Apart from the April 1960 Bay of Pigs Invasion in which it defeated mercenaries from the US , and its unique sacrifice in fighting the Apartheid armed forces to free Africa from colonialism , Cuba has , since its 1959 revolution , avoided war . The only unique wars it has fought in many countries have been against diseases and pandemics like Ebola and COVID-19 . <p> But the main challenge of Cuba is that the US treats it like a mortal enemy . Its primary sins include the fact that it is a mere 151 kilometres from the US city of Florida . Now , the US regards Cuba as its backyard and believes it must always control it . This , Cuba has heroically rejected , insisting on its sovereignty and freedom to run its own affairs . Secondly , Cuba in pre-revolutionary times was the playground of the US Mafia and the rich . The American elites have insisted on returning Cuba to that status . <p> Thirdly , Cuba in carrying out its revolution and insisting on its maintenance , is seen by the US establishment as a bad example in the hemisphere which must not be allowed to stand . Fourthly , the US sees Cuba as an inspiration to revolutions across the world . Fifthly , it sees Cuba as being very dangerous because it is socialist and , an ally of radical governments across the world . So , since 1962 , the US has tried to squelch tiny Cuba which is a mere 109,884 kilometres or the size of the US state of Tennessee . <p> One of its main weapons against Cuba is to impose a blockage against it , stopping it from trading freely or running its business . On 30 October , the United Nations General Assembly voted for the 32nd time that US ends its illegal 62-year economic , commercial and financial blockade against Cuba . The resolution , passed by 187-Member States , with only the US and Israel voting against , and Moldova abstaining , again reaffirmed the total support of the international community for the just struggle of the Cuban people and government . <p> But as it has done since 1992 , the US continues to ignore the rest of humanity . This Christmas week marking the birth of Jesus Christ , known as the Prince of Peace , the Cuban nation decided to march in its capital city , Havana , to demand that the US brigandage and injustice against the Cuban people must be brought to an end . The peace march led by Cuban President Miguel D ? az Canel Bermudez and his successor , Ra ? l Castro Ruz , passed in front of the US embassy . <p> During the march , President Bermudez said : " We do not profess the slightest feeling of hatred against the American people . To the noble citizens of that country , we offer our full respect , and our hand is always extended to strengthen the bonds of brotherhood between the two peoples ... but if the US persists in its efforts to undermine our sovereignty , our independence , our socialism , they will only find rebellion and intransigence . " The US message to Cuba is clear : when chosen by war , you 've no right to choose peace . <p> Owei Lakemfa , a former secretary general of African workers , is a human rights activist , journalist and author . <h> Share this : <h> Support PREMIUM TIMES ' journalism of integrity and credibility <p> At Premium Times , we firmly believe in the importance of high-quality journalism . Recognizing that not everyone can afford costly news subscriptions , we are dedicated to delivering meticulously researched , fact-checked news that remains freely accessible to all . <p> Whether you turn to Premium Times for daily updates , in-depth investigations into pressing national issues , or entertaining trending stories , we value your readership . <p> It 's essential to acknowledge that news production incurs expenses , and we take pride in never placing our stories behind a prohibitive paywall . <p> Would you consider supporting us with a modest contribution on a monthly basis to help maintain our commitment to free , accessible news ?
