@@4362511 <h> Israel cedes modernity to Arab Spring ( June 2011 ) <p> The theocratic nature of Israel has for too long been concealed behind the empty slogan ' the Middle East 's only democracy ' . The idea of a Jewish state is tolerated and defended by the same ' progressives ' who shiver at the mention of an Islamic one . And while the US railed against the brute nature of the Taliban 's Islamic state it rallies in defence of the anti-democratic idea of a Jewish one . Worldwide indignation was aroused by the insult to modernity that was the Taliban 's use of the chador . Yet somehow the world is supposed to find acceptable Israel 's use of that appalling medieval phenomenon : the siege . Afghani woman were ' imprisoned ' inside the chador . A whole Palestinian people is imprisoned inside Gaza . Like all religious states , Israel 's true anti-cosmopolitan nature has rarely been debated . Ironically , it 's the secular , democratic desires of the Arab Spring 's protests that have thrown an unforgiving spotlight on both the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region 's retrogressive status quo . ' New historian ' Israeli Benny Morris believes that an ethnically-cleansed religious state was Israel 's aim from the very outset . When global awareness started to render unacceptable the policy of ' transfer , ' a more subtle , but equally evil , policy of ' politicide ' was adopted . Politicide is an attack on any of the constructs that define people as a nation . Its aim is to deprive people of hope and to encourage emigration through despair . The leak of the Palestine Papers -- diplomatic correspondence about the Arab-Israeli peace talks from 1999-2010 -- further undermined Israel 's pretence at being the rational peace-seeker faced with a delinquent , intransigent partner . Predictably , the bulk of the media supported this pretence . Most coverage told us how a corrupt Palestinian Authority was prepared to sell its people 's aspirations short while the leaders lusted for the perks of power . But what the leaked papers really revealed was the flip side of this tale of treachery and greed : the fact that the Palestinians were prepared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they got nothing . And the world was spun the fallacious rehash of the Palestinians " never missing an opportunity to miss an opportunity " . Neither the democratic challenge of the Arab Spring nor the truths revealed by the Palestine Papers has curbed Israel 's backward ambitions . Instead the world witnessed Benjamin Netanyahu getting 29 Congressional standing ovations whilst bluntly rejecting Obama 's call for a ' 1967 ' based peace deal -- a plan which Israel 's continuing policy of creating facts on the ground has rendered nearly redundant . Like a true zealot , Netanyahu treated us to a paean to old-fashioned greed and territorial expansionism which if uttered by an ayatollah would have made many a young Iranian blush . But Netanyahu ca n't even hear the supposed ' sense ' of the Israeli left as they currently proclaim that a ' 1967 ' based plan is the best deal modernity will offer to that ultimately offensive and outdated concept : the religious state . A democratic deficit , to put it mildly , is the hallmark of all of Israel 's Arab neighbours . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries who are out on the streets bravely demanding that they be granted the decency of a modern democracy . The Arabs leaders may now quake at their peoples ' demands . But they are not alone in their fear of democracy . " More and more Palestinians are uninterested in a negotiated , two-state solution , because they want to change the essence of the conflict from an Algerian paradigm to a South African one . From a struggle against ' occupation , ' in their parlance , to a struggle for one-man-one-vote . That is , of course , a much cleaner struggle , a much more popular struggle -- and ultimately a much more powerful one . For us , it would mean the end of the Jewish state . " Thus spoke the former vice-prime-minister in Ariel Sharon 's government , Ehud Olmert , talking to the Israeli paper Haaretz in 2003 . Olmert was recommending Israel impose a unilateral solution to safeguard the Jewish state and protect its religious status from the fatal threat of one-man one-vote . Olmert shows us that many in Israel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in Arab armalites but in the ballot box . Olmert told Haaretz that his " formula for the parameters of a unilateral solution are : To maximise the number of Jews ; to minimise the number of Palestinians ; not to withdraw to the 1967 border and not to divide Jerusalem " . The newspaper noted that Olmert 's language was that of " long ago " adding that the former vice prime- minister hankered " unabashedly for those more hopeful times . " It seems those more " hopeful times " were back when the ethnic cleansing implicit in ' minimising ' Palestinians was a more acceptable pursuit . Olmert 's language does indeed hark back to " long ago " . Because in the 21st century , when it comes down to a choice of religion over democracy , the answer must be quite simple . And when religion involves the complete abnegation of democracy , the question ceases even to be legitimate . 
