<h> OPINION <h> Israel : Time for moral clarity , not continued propaganda <p> Marie Sukers says Desmond Tutu Trust standing solely on one side of a complex political issue <p> It is with dismay that one reads the many statements made by the Tutu Trust in the last couple of weeks , the latest a call to remove an exhibition hosted by a US government funded conference . <p> The conflict in the Middle East between the State of Israel and terrorist organizations ' Hamas and Hezbollah has rolled into every nation on the globe . The people who pay the bitter price of this ongoing battle are not the protagonists who , from the safety of their comfortable existence in conflict free zones , propagate a political narrative ; it is the people of Gaza , Israel , and Lebanon . I see in their plight the faces of my own community on the Flats . Communities entangled in the web of violence , and exploited by powerful players with devious aims . <p> Locally this conflict affects our Christian , Jewish , and Muslim communities , who have strong spiritual and natural ties to the people of that region . Therefore we must use wisdom if we seek to contribute to peace , and be aware of our own biases whether political or religious . <p> Our world needs moral clarity not the continued propaganda that strengthens an ideology that makes the Jewish community targets of violent attacks in different cities around the world . In my life I have Muslim friends who showed kindness to me personally during painful times that helps me to see beyond the labels of religion . Both Arab and Jew are descendants of Abraham . We must see people , " Umuntu umuntu ngabantu " <p> It is time for agitators like the Desmond Tutu Trust , who solely stand on one side of a complex political issue , to make a clear distinction between the innocent people of Gaza and the terrorist groups who are bent on destruction no matter what the human cost . The Trust , in failing to address the hostages still in Gaza , makes a distinction on the value of human life based on political position . Why is it that we do not hear the call clear and loud for the release of the Israeli hostages , some of them children from the Tutu Trust ? Certainly the release of hostages will contribute to ending this bloody conflict raging for more than a year . <p> There is a desperate need to reset the dialogue and discussion beyond political posturing in order to silence the guns . <p> --&gt; <p> There is a point when we must say Enough ! ! Enough pontificating , and lies ! It is the silence of the world after October 7th that fueled the bad faith players and prolonged the unbearable suffering of both Gazans and Jews . Who can live under constant bombardment or the threat of violence ? <p> There is a demand now to make a distinction between good and evil . There is no demand being placed on Hamas or Hezbollah . People of goodwill must stand united in denouncing an ideology that sacrifices the innocent and demands to win at all costs . <p> When do we change our language and words to propagate for peace ? When do we speak for the Gazan , not Hamas , for the Jewish population without demonising their religious and cultural identity ? When do we actually call out our own hypocrisy and bias in how we address atrocities of war ? Blood lust can never be satisfied and will never say it is enough . When you fight for Gaza , fight for the innocent , not for a cause that seeks not to preserve life but to destroy it based on ideological beliefs . <p> Our world is tired of bloodshed ; only those who are morally bankrupt can see the blood of another human being and rejoice ! In my community blood is shed every day ; every hour young South Africans die by the bullet of an illegal firearm in a war that is unrelenting . Gang bosses driving fancy cars and living in Constantia , while we hold more funerals than graduations . I do n't hear or see the protagonist for Palestine stand up with fervor to demand that Discovery Medical Aid do more with their CSI to help these young men get out of gangs . But I see them cancelling their medical aid for the pro-Palestine political campaign . I never saw anyone stand with both a hostage placard and the face of a Gazan ! Because the political campaign drives the narrative , not human suffering . <p> --&gt; <p> I never saw thousands march for the brutal killings on the flats , and this is here in our backyard . We face a systemic failure across our intelligence and security institutions , and the cost is reflected in the control and hold of organised crime over our communities here in South Africa . No-one is marching by their thousands or lodging a case for human rights violations against a pathetic failing government - although the Cape Flats resembles a war zone . No one demands accountability by an ongoing campaign to stop the war in our own streets - we seem paralyzed . Why is that ? Is ideology and political alignment our key internal drivers ?
