<h> Ship carrying humanitarian aid , 16 people to Gaza explodes <p> GAZA CITY : A ship carrying 16 people and humanitarian aid to Gaza was rocked by explosions early on Friday off the coast of Malta , setting the vessel on fire and putting it at risk of sinking , according to the human rights group operating the ship , New York Times reported . The ship and its crew were safe after a tug vessel helped extinguish the blaze following a mayday call , the government of Malta said in a statement . It did not say what had caused the fire , adding that the authorities were monitoring the ship , which was in international waters in the Mediterranean Sea , as per NYT . The ship , called The Conscience and operated by a group called the Freedom Flotilla Coalition , had left Tunisia earlier this week carrying human rights activists and aid . The group has challenged Israel 's blockade of Gaza by delivering humanitarian aid there . Before going to Gaza , the ship was scheduled to stop in Malta and pick up about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said Yasemin Acar , a spokeswoman for the group , NYT reported . The Israeli military has blocked past attempts by pro-Palestinian activists to bring aid to Gaza by sea , including by force . In 2010 , nine passengers aboard the Mavi Marmara , a flotilla carrying aid from Turkey to Gaza , were killed in an Israeli commando raid , sparking international outrage and a deterioration in Turkish-Israeli relations . Crew members on the ship believed they had been hit by a drone attack , the coalition said . At around 12:20 am ( local time ) , armed drones fired two bombs at the front of the ship when the ship neared Malta , the coalition said in a statement . That set off a fire , caused a substantial breach in the hull and broke the generator on board , leaving the crew without power . Parts of the group 's account could not be independently confirmed . Video provided by the Freedom Flotilla Coalition and verified by The New York Times appears to show a fire on the ship 's deck as an alarm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fire shows people on the ship assessing the damage as a man holds a fire extinguisher . The authorities in Malta said they received a mayday call from a passenger vessel of the same name at around 12:20am , reporting a fire on the bow . No casualties were reported , the Maltese government said . It was unclear on Friday morning whether the damaged ship would be allowed to dock in Malta . A nearby tug vessel with firefighting equipment helped to bring the fire under control by 1:30am , according to Malta 's statement . Less than an hour later , the crew were confirmed to be safe . Ann Wright , another spokeswoman for the group , said that the crew had stayed aboard instead of evacuating to keep watch over the ship . The group has asked the crew to pick up the debris from the explosions so that it could undergo forensic examination , which would help determine whether a weapon had been used , Wright said , as per NYT . It was not clear who was responsible for the explosions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not immediately respond to a request for comment . But Israel has restricted humanitarian aid from entering the Gaza Strip , barring it most recently since March in an effort to pressure Hamas into accepting a proposal to extend a ceasefire . There were 12 crew members and four civilian passengers on board the ship , according to the Maltese government and the Freedom Flotilla Coalition . The Freedom Flotilla Coalition called on the international community to condemn the attack . " Attacking international human rights activists in international waters is a war crime , " Acar said .
