<h> Israel brutality in Gaza is genocide , Dar tells OIC <p> Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar has said that while the International Court of Justice might have termed the Israeli bombardment in Gaza as " plausible genocide " , it was clear that it was " genocide " . <p> " What Israel is doing with unprecedented impunity ... is more than just adventurism . It is pure madness , " Dar said while addressing an executive committee meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) . " The oppressor is acting as if it has total freedom to break and bend the international law and norms and liberty , " he said . " Can any sane mind , any conscienable nation , any responsible government or state condone or turn a blind eye to what Israel has done and continues to do , " Dar added . <p> Earlier , Dar and OIC Secretary General Hissein Brahim Taha on Wednesday stressed urgency of a ceasefire in Gaza and unhindered supply of humanitarian assistance for the Palestinians . Deputy PM Dar met with OIC Secretary General Hissein Brahim Taha on the sidelines of the Open-Ended Extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed the situation in Gaza and Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir . Ishaq Dar discussed with the Secretary General the ongoing genocide of the Palestinians and dire humanitarian situation in Gaza and the West Bank . <p> They stressed the urgency of a ceasefire and unhindered supply of humanitarian assistance for the Palestinian people . Ishaq Dar praised the OIC for its efforts for peace in the Middle East and expressed full support of Pakistan for its initiatives . He appreciated the historic role of the OIC Contact Group on Jammu and Kashmir and the Special Envoy for Jammu and Kashmir for supporting the legitimate right of self-determination of the Kashmiris as reflected in various OIC resolutions and statements . The Deputy Prime Minister also lauded the appointment of OIC Secretary General 's Special Envoy on Islamophobia and expressed the hope that the Special Envoy would steer the campaign to address this important issue .
