<h> Shame on Israel <p> Not sure if shameless is the word to describe Israel 's modus operandi . The killing of more than 100 civilians sheltered in a Gaza school is tantamount to crime against humanity committed by allies of the Jewish state too , especially the United States and Europe , as they continue to look the other way round . Equally condemnable is the Muslim world , which has enough on its sleeves in the form of rhetoric but no action . Though it remains to be seen what impact this bombing will have on a region simmering in volatility , it is nonetheless for sure that it will lead to surge in extremism and push the Middle East a few more steps closer to a lethal showdown . <p> To this day , Israel had the audacity to hit more than 14 schools , leaving an intangible number of people dead and injured , which incidentally also takes the total number of casualties to more than 40,000 since October 7 . Once again the ploy from Tel Aviv is that the facility used to house Hamas combatants , a claim denied by the militia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does International Law allow for such a barbarism where more than 6,000 people are holed up to save their skin from day in and day out excesses of the Zionist state ? Gaza already is a tapestry in ruins where carnage and genocide are the most logical terms to describe the apathy . The world is in need of being shown the horrifying images from Gaza where children and women are submerged in blood pools , and where nothing reins but the transgression of Israel . <p> So what 's next ? As usual there are condemnations from the human-conscious states , including Pakistan and the immediate neighbours of Palestine . Will that matter in the long run ? Aid agencies have already flagged SOS over the evolving situation wherein a million-plus people left in the enclave are on the verge of extinction , if not by aerial bombing then certainly by hunger and lack of medicines . The irony is that there are no listeners , and the evolving tensions in the form of Iran-Israel duel have literally overshadowed the plight of Palestinians .
