<h> Lip Service to Peace <p> The hypocrisy is astounding . Three days after the United States approved a $20 billion weapons package for Israel , Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in Israel , supposedly to push forward the ceasefire process and bring it to a political conclusion . Of course , we must remember that this statement by Antony Blinken reflects the perspective of both the United States and the Israeli side of the conflict . <p> For political commentators across the world , it has become apparent that the negotiation process is merely a political cover for Israel to carry out its actions , while the United States obfuscates the matter by sending condemnations one way or another . This is evident in the fact that while a ceasefire deal had been reached before the invasion of the Rafah neighbourhood in Gaza , it was Israel that denied it , later claiming that Palestinians were delaying the negotiations . It 's further demonstrated by the assassination of Hamas 's political leader , who was leading the negotiations for a ceasefire and hostage return ; yet the United States did not condemn Israel , nor did it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide weapons , political support , and military backing . <p> The hypocrisy is also evident in the fact that despite testimonies and video evidence of Israel torturing and raping prisoners in its concentration camp , the United States has not uttered a single word of condemnation . Moreover , while Israel has launched fresh pogroms in the West Bank -- where Hamas is not present , killing people and burning homes -- the United States has remained silent . Even when the United States charged one Israeli brigade for crimes against humanity during the Al-Ahli hospital massacre , this was later walked back under pressure from the Israeli government . <p> It is also telling that the United States House of Representatives rose in thunderous applause for Benjamin Netanyahu dozens of times while a genocide was being perpetrated . So , despite what Antony Blinken says , the world now recognises that the ceasefire process is merely political cover for ongoing atrocities .
