<p> LAHORE - Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) Emir , Hafiz Naeem ur Rehman , Tuesday said that tomorrow 's ( August 28 ) nationwide shutter-down strike will be a decisive step to force the government to provide relief to traders and the general public . During a visit to the Hall Road camp on Tuesday , he addressed the media , calling on traders to remain united and resist the government 's attempts to create divisions within their ranks . He emphasized that solidarity is crucial for both their own rights and the rights of the public , reaffirming JI 's commitment to holding the government accountable for the agreement reached after their 14-day sit-in protest . The JI established the Hall Road camp as part of their efforts to mobilize traders and the general public in support of the strike . During his visit , Rehman met with representatives of various trader organizations , who expressed their full support for JI 's call for a nationwide shutdown . Rehman criticized the government 's newly proposed " trader-friendly " scheme , labeling it as an enemy of traders . He explained that instead of fair , income-based taxation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traders view as unjust . While traders are willing to contribute to the expansion of the tax net , they reject what they see as an inequitable scheme . Rehman also called on the ruling elite to curb their extravagant spending and impose taxes on feudal lords to generate revenue for the national exchequer . He stated that JI has already presented measures to strengthen the economy and protect the interests of traders and the public . However , the government appears reluctant to make the right decisions , continuing to target the already burdened poor , salaried class , and business community . To push for public relief , Rehman emphasized the need for a peaceful resistance movement , which led JI to announce the strike after consulting with traders . He also indicated that JI would unveil its next steps after further discussions with traders , potentially announcing more strikes if the government remains unresponsive . Rehman also challenged former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif , urging him to reveal how much the Sharif family has benefited from the national exchequer through capacity charges on their Independent Power Plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a savior by offering what he described as token relief to the people of Punjab amidst skyrocketing power tariffs . He argued that the entire country could benefit from reduced electricity costs if the Sharif family and their associates relinquished the capacity charges they received from their IPPs . Rehman reiterated JI 's demand for nationwide relief from electricity tariffs and called for a forensic audit of the IPPs . <p> In addition , Rehman condemned the recent acts of terrorism in Balochistan , denouncing those who target innocent people based on ethnicity as agents of foreign agendas aimed at destabilizing Pakistan . He called for strict action against such elements , with the involvement of Balochistan 's true leadership , stressing that the government 's responsibility is to protect its citizens . <p> Rehman also condemned an announcement by an Israeli minister regarding the construction of a Jewish prayer space inside the Al-Aqsa Mosque . He stated that the Muslim Ummah would resist such actions . He said Israel is targeting the people of Gaza due to the weakness of Muslim world leaders .
