<p> Hamas has expressed its willingness to engage in fresh truce talks , following renewed diplomatic efforts by Qatar and Egypt , who are coordinating with the United States to break the deadlock . The aim is a 60-day temporary truce as a step towards a permanent ceasefire in Gaza . <p> Hamas on Sunday expressed readiness for an immediate round of fresh truce talks after the last attempt ended in stalemate.The Palestinian militant group confirmed its willingness to resume discussions , after renewed diplomatic efforts by Qatar and Egypt . " The movement affirms its readiness to immediately begin a round of indirect negotiations to reach an agreement on the points of contention , " the group said.This comes as Qatar and Egypt , who have long acted as key intermediaries in the conflict , announced they would ramp up their coordination with the United States in a bid to break the current deadlock . In a joint statement , the two countries said , " Qatar and Egypt , in coordination with the United States of America , affirm their intention to intensify efforts to overcome the obstacles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working towards a 60-day temporary truce as a step towards a permanent ceasefire in the Gaza strip.Despite months of mediation between Hamas , Israel , and international stakeholders , talks have repeatedly collapsed . A previous two-month ceasefire brokered late last year allowed for the release of dozens of Israeli hostages and hundreds of Palestinian prisoners . However , that truce broke down in March , prompting Israel to resume and later intensify its military campaign in Gaza . <p> On Saturday , Hamas said it had responded " positively " to the latest US-backed proposal , but sought several changes . A senior Hamas official earlier told the AP that the group 's amendments focused on American guarantees , the timing of hostage releases , delivery of aid , and the withdrawal of Israeli forces.Hamas proposed the handover of 10 living hostages , along with the bodies of 18 others , in return for a specified number of Palestinian prisoners . The group said the ultimate goal of the proposal is a permanent ceasefire , a full withdrawal of Israeli troops , and uninterrupted humanitarian aid.According to the health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been killed since Israel resumed its assault on 18 March . That brings the overall death toll in Gaza since the conflict began to 54,418 , the majority of whom are civilians.The war was triggered by Hamas 's deadly cross-border attack on Israel in October 2023 , which left 1,218 people dead , also mostly civilians , and saw militants take 251 hostages . The Israeli military says 57 captives remain in Gaza , of whom 34 are believed to be dead . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
