<h> After Operation Sindoor , Bhutto turns into a boor , calls Modi a cheap version of Netanyahu <p> A war of words erupted between Indian and Pakistani delegations in Washington D.C. over the Pahalgam attack and Kashmir . Bilawal Bhutto 's criticism of Prime Minister Modi drew a sharp response from Tejasvi Surya , highlighting Pakistan 's reliance on Chinese products . <p> The TOI correspondent from Washington : An indirect war of words erupted between Indian and Pakistani delegations on Wednesday as they arrived separately in the US capital to present their respective versions of the Pahalgam terrorist attack , Operation Sindoor , and the Kashmir issue , and the growing rift between the two nations . The spat was triggered by gratuitous remarks by Bilawal Bhutto , leader of the Pakistani delegation , who at a press conference at the United Nations in New York , likened Prime Minister Narendra Modi to a " Temu version of ( Binyamin ) Netanyahu ... a poor copy " as he sought to draw parallels between India 's punitive response to Pahalgal and Israeli actions in Gaza . Temu is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Indian delegation wasted no time smacking back . " Pakistan is a country that is surviving with inferior products borrowed from China , including military hardware . It must be hurting to see authentic , high-caliber military hardware and also strong democratic leadership on the other side of the border , " clapped back Tejasvi Surya , a member of the Indian team , as it arrived in Washington DC and began meetings with US lawmakers , think-tanks , and social media influencers . <p> " A country that is busy creating fake heroes , by promoting failed Generals , will never know what true leaders look like , " Surya added . Shashi Tharoor , leader of the Indian delegation , appeared to have anticipated the clash , almost with a sense of relish , noting as the team arrived in Washington DC that the Pakistanis would also be there at the same time " so there 's going to be perhaps an increase in interest because there are two duelling delegations in the same city . " But Bhutto was down for the count even before got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he tried to enlist sympathetic journalists with planted questions aimed at amplifying Pakistan 's narrative about India 's treatment of Muslims . Embarrassingly for him , a reporter called him out saying he had watched the briefings on both sides and " as far as I recall , there were Muslim Indian military officers who were conducting the briefings on the Indian side . " Bhutto also claimed that Pakistan radars had locked into 20 Indian jets on the night of May 7 and " If we wanted , we could 've taken down all 20 , " but Pakistan showed restraint and " only 6 were shot down -- the ones that launched strikes . " He also rolled out the familiar trope about Pakistan being a " victim of terrorism " -- in a city where Pakistani nationals Ramzi Yousuf and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed launched attacks on the World Trade Center in 1993 and 2001. ( more to follow )
