<p> New Delhi , Jun 3 : Describing it as an " incredibly resilient sector " , president of UK-based World Travel and Tourism Council ( WTTC ) , Julia Simpson , on Tuesday expressed optimism about the revival of Jammu and Kashmir tourism that has suffered a huge hit in the wake of the Pahalgam attack . During an interaction here , she also said while there is a need for an " appropriate round of caution " , travellers who have loyally chosen Kashmir as a destination and have been coming to India , " I think , they are going to continue to come " . Simpson , also the CEO of the London-based tourism body , shared some of the projected figures for the Indian tourism sector for 2025 and the 10-year forecast for 2035 in a presentation . She also gave some related insights later in an interaction with PTI Videos on the sidelines of the event . She underlined the recovery made in the Indian tourism sector in the last few years post-Covid pandemic , and asserted that the " future does look very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cast a shadow on this tourism recovery trajectory in India , Simpson said the " situation we 're seeing here in India is certainly being stabilised , which is always a good sign " . She underlined the resilient nature of the sector and said people were apprehensive that travellers would not go to the Middle East after the Israel-Gaza conflict or would not travel to Europe after the Russia-Ukraine conflict , but people are travelling to the Middle East and Europe . The WTTC CEO emphasised the current geopolitical anxieties and recalled the terror attack in Kashmir 's Pahalgam on April 22. " ... we obviously have had a tragic event here in India , but we are seeing wars globally . There 's a lot of ... and I always say when I talk about travel and tourism , in the concept ... and conflict , first of all , we have to remember that there are real human beings and victims who get caught up in these horrendous events , " she said . " But what I will say , travel and tourism is very , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . In the Pahalgam attack , 26 people , mostly tourists , including a Nepalese national , were killed while holidaying at the scenic Baisaran Valley . On the steps being taken by the government authorities in India to rebuild tourism and restore peace and security , she invoked the leadership of the country and underlined that things are really being " managed very well " . " I mean , obviously we want people to have deep concern about what 's happening ... You know , it 's sort of one day 's media clippings , and then people who are loyal to Kashmir and coming to India , I think , are going to continue to come . " So , I feel very confident that while there is a need to have an appropriate round of caution , I do not think overall it 's going to impact travel and tourism , " the WTTC chief said . During her interaction with PTI Videos , she termed travel and tourism as an " incredibly resilient sector " . " While these are personal tragedies for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that travel and tourism remains very , very strong , and it will recover very , very quickly , " she said . " They ( travellers ) obviously take advice from their governments about where it is safe to travel , but generally , these situations are resolved , and people start travelling again quite quickly , " Simpson said . Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah is also endeavouring for the revival of tourism in the Valley , leading from the front as he held a meeting of the council of ministers at a resort in south Kashmir 's Pahalgam in May , seeking to rebuild confidence of tourists . Jyotsna Suri , Chairperson and Managing Director , The Lalit Suri Hospitality Group , also expressed optimism about the revival of tourism in Jammu and Kashmir after the heavy impact on it post the Pahalgam attack . " Kashmir has had its highs and lows for the longest time ; it 's not new . And I can speak from experience , because we 've been there for 25 years now , and there were times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months , we would have a single guest in the hotel . But we did n't stop , and we continued , " she said . Now , what has happened in Pahalgam is " so unfortunate " , but people will go back . " Jammu and Kashmir is taking it very seriously , led by the chief minister himself , and , more importantly , the Centre , the prime minister , the home minister , all of them are making an effort ... sending out a very positive message that , yes , what has happened is awful , it 's terrible , and we grieve those lives that have gone , but it will come back . Tourism will come back to Kashmir , " the CMD of the luxury hospitality group said . Set up in 1980 , WTTC says its mission is to maximise the inclusive and sustainable growth potential of the travel and tourism sector through global partnerships . Established over 20 years ago , the World Travel and Tourism Council , India Initiative ( WTTCII ) works in conjunction with WTTC . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the occasion . Suri , also vice chairperson of WTTCII , said , " I am very sure Kashmir will come back with a big bounce once again " . She recalled the terror attack and its aftermath that impacted the rest of the country as well , saying it was not just Kashmir , but Chandigarh as well , where blackouts happened later , owing to its proximity to Amritsar , also affected . " Again , in Mumbai and Goa , because of proximity to Karachi , there was an impact ( on the sector ) , " Suri said , pointing to hotel booking cancellations by many tourists .
