<h> US President Donald Trump had sparked a national debate last week after taking the extraordinary step of sending the National Guard and Marines to quell protests --- pitting the Republican leader against the Democratic governor of California . <p> Los Angeles spent Tuesday night under curfew amid continued efforts to quell five days of unrest . US President Donald Trump had sparked a national debate last week after taking the extraordinary step of sending the National Guard and Marines to quell protests -- pitting the Republican leader against the Democratic governor of California . The situation has also created a rift within the Democratic party with several leaders breaking rank to side with their ' rivals ' on a recent House resolution . <p> Seventy-five democrats joined Republicans on Monday to vote for a resolution that condemned antisemitism and expressed " gratitude " for Immigration and Customs Enforcement and other law enforcement personnel . The development came even as Los Angeles reeled under political unrest following ICE raids and dozens of arrests in several downtown city neighbourhoods . The incidents had subsequently sparked a sweeping spread of anti-ICE demonstrations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparing for a presidential run in 2028 ) and the state of California sued Trump and the Defense Department on Monday -- seeking to block the deployment of federal troops . Trump in turn has suggested Newsom should be arrested . Hundreds of US Marines arrived in the Los Angeles area on Tuesday under orders from Trump , after he also ordered the deployment of 4,000 National Guard to the city . Marines and National Guard are to be used in the protection of government personnel and buildings and not in police action . <p> The resolution on Monday condemned a recent antisemitic attack in Colorado where the suspect -- Mohamed Sabry Soliman -- faces 118 criminal charges for targeting a march seeking the return of Israeli hostages in Gaza . It also affirmed that " that free and open communication between State and local law enforcement and their federal counterparts remains the bedrock of public safety and is necessary in preventing terrorist attacks ; and expresses gratitude to law enforcement officers , including U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel , for protecting the homeland . " <p> Democratic leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become the most intense flashpoint yet in the Trump administration 's efforts to deport migrants living in the country illegally , and then crack down on opponents who take to the streets in protest.Trump , voted back into office last year largely for his promise to deport undocumented immigrants , used a speech honoring soldiers on Tuesday to defend his decision . U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Tuesday posted photos on X of National Guard troops accompanying ICE officers on an immigration raid . Trump administration officials have vowed to redouble the immigration raids in response to the street protests .
