<h> Editorial : Trump drags US into war <p> By ditching diplomacy and directly wading into the Israel-Iran war , the United States has expanded the theatre of conflict in the Middle East with dangerous consequences . American warplanes and submarines attacked three key nuclear sites in Iran , including the highly fortified Uranium enrichment facility hidden in a remote mountainside at Fordo , prompting fears that the conflict could rapidly get out of control -- with catastrophic implications for the region and beyond . For the first time , America has dropped bunker-busting bombs to cripple Iran 's nuclear infrastructure . It is reported that six B-2 bombers dropped 12 bunker-buster bombs on Fordo , and Navy submarines fired 30 cruise missiles at Natanz and Isfahan . This has brought America directly into Israel 's war , whose objective is to completely eliminate the nuclear threat from Tehran . The next steps in the spiralling conflict are hard to predict . The latest strikes are an extraordinary turn for a military that was supposed to be moving on from two decades of forever wars in the Middle East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is bound to trigger a fierce response as Tehran has vowed to strike at American bases in the Middle East . About 40,000 U. troops are currently stationed across the region , along with billions of dollars in weapons and military equipment . Iranian leaders might face pressure for full-fledged retaliation , such as by striking American bases . The escalatory spiral could quickly get out of hand . Thousands of American troops could be in Iran 's direct line of fire by Iran and its allies . <p> During the election campaign , Trump repeatedly said he was opposed to America engaging in any conflicts overseas . Even after Israel began its bombing campaign , he gave indications of his willingness to pursue diplomacy with Iran . Only two days ago , Trump said he would give Iran two weeks to enter into substantial negotiations before striking . Now , the Trump administration is bracing for possible retaliation from Iran . His supporters argue that diplomacy was not working , with Iran standing firm on its right to enrich uranium . Sceptics of military intervention were , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the US from being dragged into a wider war . If Iran kills any Americans in its retaliatory attacks , Trump would be under pressure to respond with still more force , triggering a potential cycle of escalation . Historically , Iran has committed itself to bringing ' Death to America ' and wiping Israel off the map , and has rejected all diplomatic pathways to peace . The US strikes came at a time when the cleric-run Iran is at one of its weakest points since the 1979 Islamic revolution toppled the pro-Western shah . Since the October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel by Hamas , which enjoys Iran 's support , Israel -- besides obliterating much of Gaza -- has decimated Lebanon 's Hezbollah , Tehran 's proxy .
