<p> The US administration issued a warning of a " heightened threat environment " in the United States after its military strikes on Iran 's nuclear sites . The bulletin issued by the National terrorism Advisory System did not mention Operation Midnight Hammer but warned Americans of " low-level cyber attacks " against US networks amid the ongoing " Iran conflict " . " The ongoing Iran conflict is causing a heightened threat environment in the United States . Low-level cyber attacks against US networks by pro-Iranian hacktivists are likely , and cyber actors affiliated with the Iranian government may conduct attacks against US networks , " it said . " Iran also has a long-standing commitment to target US Government officials it views as responsible for the death of an Iranian military commander killed in January 2020 . The likelihood of violent extremists in the Homeland independently mobilizing to violence in response to the conflict would likely increase if Iranian leadership issued a religious ruling calling for retaliatory violence against targets in the Homeland . Multiple recent Homeland terrorist attacks have been motivated by anti-Semitic or anti-Israel sentiment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plotting additional attacks , " the advisory said . <p> Iran had previously vowed to retaliate if the U.S. joined Israel 's attack , which started June 13 with Israeli airstrikes on Iranian nuclear and military targets . More than 650 people have been killed and at least 2,000 have been wounded in Iran since then , according to a Washington-based Iranian human rights group . At least 24 have also been killed in Israel , and hundreds wounded , in Iran 's retaliatory missile and drone strikes , according to estimates from the Israeli military . The conflict has played out as Israel 's war with Hamas in Gaza continues.Law enforcement officials in New York City said Saturday night that they were " deploying additional resources " to certain sites as a precaution . The NYPD posted : " We 're tracking the situation unfolding in Iran . Out of an abundance of caution , we 're deploying additional resources to religious , cultural , and diplomatic sites across NYC and coordinating with our federal partners . We 'll continue to monitor for any potential impact to NYC . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
