<p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , during his visit to the Soroka Hospital in Israel 's Beersheba , condemned Iran for carrying out a ballistic missile strike at the hospital , which left several patients , doctors , and staff seriously injured.Criticising it as a blatant attack on civilians , Netanyahu asserted that while Israel is conducting precision strikes on Iran 's nuclear and missile programmes , Iran has targeted a hospital with a children 's ward . " I am here at the Soroka Hospital in Be'er-Sheva , together with the Minister of Health , Deputy Minister Almog Cohen , a resident of the South , and also , not for the first time , the director of the Soroka Hospital . We see the whole difference here . We are hitting with precision the targets of the nuclear and missile programs , and they 're hitting a hospital , where people ca n't even get up and run away , " read a statement issued by the Israeli PM 's office on Thursday . " They 're hitting not far from here -- there 's a children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between a democracy taking lawful action to save itself from these murderers -- and these murderers whose aim is to destroy every one of us . Each and every one of us , until the very last one among us . I think that tells you everything , " the statement added.Meanwhile , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar launched a scathing attack on his Iranian counterpart Seyed Abbas Araghchi for calling the missile strike in Soroka Hospital an attack on " Israeli Military Command , Control and Intelligence Headquarters " . " Araghchi You lie ! I was just at Soroka Hospital with dozens of international journalists . They saw with their own eyes the brutal aftermath of your regime 's missile strike on a civilian hospital that treats Jews , Muslims , and Christians alike . No AI lies , no fake maps can change the facts . Your barbarism is exposed to the world , " Sa'ar wrote in a post on X.Araghchi in a social media post on Thursday stated , " Earlier today , our powerful Armed Forces accurately eliminated an Israeli Military Command , Control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superficial damage to a small section of the nearby , and largely evacuated , Soroka Military Hospital . " He claimed that the facility is mainly used to treat Israeli soldiers " engaged in the Genocide in Gaza 25 miles away , where Israel has destroyed or damaged 94 per cent of Palestinian hospitals . " Following the Iranian missile attack in the hospital on Thursday , Netanyahu vowed a fierce response against what he called the " terrorist tyrants " in Tehran . " This morning , Iran 's terrorist tyrants launched missiles at Soroka Hospital in Beersheba and at a civilian population in the centre of the country . We will exact the full price from the tyrants in Tehran , " said Netanyahu in a post on X after the attack . <h> ABOUT US <p> Nagaland Post is an English newspaper published from Dimapur in the Indian state of Nagaland . It is the first and highest circulated daily newspaper of Nagaland state and also the first newspaper in Nagaland to be published in multi-colour.
