<p> Srinagar , Jun 20 : National Conference ( NC ) Lok Sabha MP Aga Syed Ruhullah Mehdi Friday called for radical reforms in politics in Jammu and Kashmir , saying the quality of polity has degraded , and he was not happy with the change . " I was talking about changing the quality entirely . I am not talking about organisations ; It is not about organisations . It is about the quality of the politics , it is about the polity of the state , " Mehdi told reporters after an event in Sopore in north Kashmir 's Baramulla district . The Lok Sabha MP from Srinagar said the quality of politics has " degraded " and changing political parties would not make a difference . " The quality of politics that we have has degraded . It will not make a difference if you change the parties ; we have seen people changing parties . Until you change the politics , we will continue to see this ' tamasha ' . I request the society to stand for the reform and change the entire politics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quality of the polity in this state . I am totally not satisfied , " he added . On the absence of NC leaders at the event , he said it was their choice not to . " I was invited by the organisers , who are part of civil society . Whether any political party comes or not , it was not for a political reason , even if it is my political party . " If they felt it was not right to attend , they have their own choice , but if someone invites me , I will not ask them whether you have voted or not ( for him ) , " he said . Mehdi also called for making public the report on the reservation sent by the cabinet sub-committee to the law department . " It should be made public , discussion should be held on that with the people . If it has been sent to the law department , it should be concluded within a week , " he said . The Shia leader said the Iran-Israel conflict has impacted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the entire free world , the world which believes in freedom and independence , has been impacted by this war , and they are very concerned . This is a colonial project of the West , at the forefront of which is Israel , the consequences of which Gaza has to bear every day , and sometimes Yemen and Lebanon , and now Iran . " This colonial project is a danger to peace . The people of Kashmir are also concerned and are watching the response of Iran to the Zionist/terrorist regime , and we hope that this colonial project , an occupational project , ends with Iran 's response and peace is established in the whole region , " Mehdi said . ( Agencies )
