<p> TOI correspondent from Washington : US President Donald Trump unloaded on putative New York City mayor Zohran Mamdani on Thursday , calling him a " communist lunatic , " as US political pundits across the spectrum tried to make sense of how the second largest Jewish city in the world voted for a Muslim socialist of Indian-origin . " It 's finally happened , the Democrats have crossed the line ... We 've had Radical Lefties before , but this is getting a little ridiculous , " Trump raged online , while acknowledging " this is a big moment in the History of our Country ! " The MAGA supremo also went personal on the 33-year old Indian-Ugandan immigrant who trumped the US establishment to win leadership of the richest city in the world , saying , " he looks TERRIBLE , his voice is grating , he 's not very smart . " Trump clubbed Mamdani with other liberal-progressive female lawmakers of non-white heritage like Jasmine Crockett ( black ) , Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez ( Latina ) , Pramila Jayapal ( Indian ) , Rashida Tlaib ( Palestinian ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could lead the Democratic campaign in the 2028 presidential elections . " Added together with our future Communist Mayor of New York City , Zohran Mamdani , and our Country is really SCREWED ! " the US President said , implicitly suggesting colored immigrants are taking over America . <p> A banner headline in the pro-MAGA city tabloid New York Post following Mamdani 's win in the primaries , which virtually ensures he will be the next mayor , screamed " RED ALERT ! " Trump 's immigration czar Stephen Miller was rather more direct in blaming immigration for Mamdani 's victory , saying it is the " clearest warning yet of what happens to a society when it fails to control migration . " Although early analysis showed that Mamdani had overwhelming support from white , college-educated voters and even many liberal and moderate Jewish voters opposed to Israeli action in Gaza , Miller argued that " unchecked migration fundamentally remade the NYC electorate ... That 's how you turn a city that defined US dominance into what it is now . " " To understand the pace and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of NYC is foreign-born and almost two-thirds of NYC children live in a foreign-born household , " Miller said about a city that has always been diverse , plural , and has welcomed immigrants from all over the world.On cue , Trump 's MAGA minions attacked Mamdani , accusing him of being a " Hamas sympathiser " and associating him with 9/11 , which took place when he was eight years old . When a MAGA activist lamented that New York City has " endured 9/11 instead of voting for it , " Trump 's son Don Jr , responded " New York has fallen " But rather than fallen , the US commentariat opined that NYC has risen and repudiated the MAGA vision of white dominance , electing a immigrant Muslim socialist in a metropolis that has more than 2 million Jews , the most in any city after Tel Aviv .
