<h> Trump-Harvard ' DEI ' Feud : Lessons for Institutions of Higher Learning <p> Prof Sukhdev Singh Education is a driver of change , development , and human enlightenment ; it helps individuals to question , experiment , and explore , leading to regulated change . When supported by the community and Governments , it brightens up at a faster speed , opening new horizons . The research throws light that empowers the researchers to explore further ; it is a continuous project . The communities gain from it in human welfare , while the Governments and businesses gain by profiting . To control who gains the most engenders politics of conflicting interests . That is the main impulse of the current feud between the Trump administration and Harvard University . While Harvard aims to promote liberal ideologies encouraging free speech and the right to protest unjust and inhuman actions , the Trump administration aims to contain the proliferation of liberal ideologies . President Donald Trump has been spinning a narrative of packing in ' America 's burden ' policy of supporting international students , migrant labor , and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population . The politics of ideological conflicts comes to the fore in the exchange on social media and press statements on the sidelines of the formal communication . Trump has gone on to accuse Harvard faculty of colluding with the Communist Party of China , while those rejecting the charges have called the Trump Government policies reminiscent of McCarthyism of the 1940s . As to the formal war between Harvard and the Trump Administration , responding to Harvard 's lawsuit on May 23 , 2025 , a US district court in Massachusetts has ruled that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) May 22 , 2025 order revoking Harvard 's Student and Exchange Visitor Program ( SEVP ) certification is restrained till the next hearing on May 29 , 2025 . The court has blocked DHS from " implementing , instituting , maintaining , or giving effect " to the revocation of Harvard 's eligibility to enroll international students and sponsor international scholars . Describing SEVP as a privilege and not a right , the DHS had issued a letter on May 22 , 2025 , revoking Harvard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit foreign students on F- or J-nomination status for the 2025-2026 academic year , and existing foreigners on F- or J-nomination " must transfer to another university in order to maintain their non-immigrant status . " To avoid SEVP privilege revocation , Harvard had been advised to provide within 72 hours all the information related to on- or off-campus activities by its non-immigrant students allegedly against others in the last five years . In response to the Government action , Harvard chose to challenge it in the court , communicating to the Harvard community that the revocation was against Harvard 's refusal to submit to the federal Government 's illegal assertion of control &amp; over its curriculum , faculty , and student body . In a series of actions , the Trump administration wrote a letter to Harvard on April 11 , 2025 , charging it with failure to " justify federal investment . " To rectify its failure , the university was advised to ( a ) reduce the power of students , faculty , and administrators ; ( b ) share all admissions and hiring data for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students hostile to the American values ... and Semitism " ; and ( d ) commission an external party , acceptable to the federal Government , " to audit the student body , faculty , staff , and leadership for viewpoint diversity " and " the programs and departments that most fuel anti-Semitic harassment or reflect ideological capture . " ( e ) discontinue " all diversity , equity , and inclusion ( DEI ) programs , offices , committees , positions , and initiatives ... " ; ( f ) reform " its student discipline policies and procedures " ; ( g ) establish procedures to protect anyone reporting " noncompliance with the reforms ... " ; ( h ) make " organizational changes to ensure full transparency and cooperation with all federal regulators . " Instead of surrendering to the DHS demands , Harvard had preferred to challenge the letter in the court while conveying to the Government that their demands were " unconstitutional , " amounting to encroachment on academic freedom . On May 23 , pleading in the court , Harvard described the " revocation " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive action . " Although the university has acceded to correcting some of the lapses during protests against the Gaza war , it has refuted the charges of any planned discrimination against Semitism . It has rejected the conditions as a necessary requirement to get a $2.2 billion federal grant and tax-exempt status . In the meanwhile , the federal Government 's ' stringent ' conditions on Harvard have drawn strong reactions from many academics , activists , and political leaders , including the Jews , criticizing the Trump administration for using anti-Semitism as a weapon to act upon universities for their own ends . Whether the Trump administration will gain anything politically from the continuing feud is ambivalent , but the damage to the work and values that the USA has been claiming to stand for is definite . Harvard may or may not lose the federal grant , but it has definitely retained its character by its unflinching resistance to the Government pressures to surrender its DEI programmes . Its strength to resist comes not from its classroom activity alone but from its community programmes of capacity building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mission to educate the citizens and citizen-leaders , Harvard University , according to a Study on Global Economic &amp;amp ; Social Impact of Harvard Alumni , is proud that its alumni have created 146,429 jobs globally . Harvard 's socially relevant inventions include baking powder , organ transplantation , oral dehydration therapy ( ORS ) , functional MRI , potable surgery , logical quantum processor , and gene-editing medicine . Harvard created the world 's first MBA programme in 1908 . Harvard has about 5800 patents to its credit . Harvard works for the welfare of its neighborhood community . It ' partners with local communities to provide apprenticeship and internship opportunities ' for youth . " As of August 2024 , Harvard was the 5th largest employer of Massachusetts residents and the largest in the city of Cambridge . " According to a report , Harvard 's revenue for work comes from philanthropy : endowment income and gifts ( 45% ) ; education : tuition , housing , and food sales ( 11% ) ; research ( federal grant 11% + non-federal 5% = 16% ) ; and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on research . Although Harvard is financially as well as academically strong , the freeze of the 2.2 billion dollar federal grant and the tax-exemption status will affect its research programmes . While the ' feud-theatre ' and the ' gain-loss narrative spinning ' exercise continue , there is enough stuff for the Indian and the rest of the world 's universities to learn from : v The universities have to nurture the values of equity and inclusion and of internationalism to gain a wider exposure environment for their learners and knowledge creators . v To do that , the universities must reach out to the community for support rather than its overdependence on Government grants . v To gain the community 's support , the universities must relate their knowledge and research to the community for its welfare and capacity building . v The universities must create work cultures for skilling and knowledge to the highest standards for physical , psychological , socio-cultural , economic , and spiritual welfare of the community . ( The author is former Professor from Guru Nanak Dev University , Amritsar )
