<h> Can Iran reshape regional economics ? <p> Iran 's reassertion of power after its military confrontation with Israel is n't just about geopolitics -- it has the potential to reshape the region 's economic landscape in profound ways . With rising stature , renewed alliances , and access to key trade corridors , Iran may increasingly position itself to become a central economic actor in West Asia and beyond.The Israeli assaults exposed the unfathomed capacity that Iran has . It demonstrated its power to devastate Tel Aviv to Israeli gateway to Europe , the Haifa port , and dreams of the western India -- Middle East -- Europe Economic Corridor ( IMEC ) . Iranian coordinated strategy flanking to Yemen , Lebanon and Gaza has had heavy cost on Israel and its master allies.For the first time Iran openly targeted Israel from its own territory in such scale , signalling new strategic confidence . It 's no more a pariah.It has put to myth that President Donald Trump was reshaping the Middle East by drawing closer to Israel 's long-term adversaries.The assault exemplified that fear is not about forget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rise . That is being termed as the major gain for an isolated Iran , which , some thought , was crushed under sanctions . It is also a showcase that an arms market exists beyond the Western dominance . Would new arms player emerge ? It is quite likely and dependence on the West could dwindle.ConstraintsThe U.S.-Israel military objective may not have been to dismantle Iran 's nuclear facilities -- but rather to subdue and isolate a defiant regional power that had become a rallying point for anti-West forces . This fits a broader historical pattern seen with Egypt , Iraq , Libya , and Afghanistan.Indeed , if reports of US-Iran backchannel talks are true , they indicate Washington may prefer a contained , partially integrated Iran . But not one capable of leading an anti-West coalition . Any Western assistance for reconstruction will come with tight political strings , limiting Tehran 's space for ideological defiance.Yet , while Tehran may have gained in perception and prestige -- particularly among its allies and adversaries -- it 's important to temper that view with realism.Iran 's rise , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can reshape regional economics in a lasting way depends on how it navigates post-conflict isolation , economic strain , and complex alliances . The potential is there , but the path forward is anything but assured.Energy Leverage -- TheoreticalIran holds some of the world 's largest reserves of oil and gas . In a less sanctioned world , this would be an obvious economic advantage . But despite its ability to keep exports flowing under the radar , Iran remains financially strangled by Western sanctions.China may buy oil , but it avoids direct capital transfers . Financially strained Russia , under US sanctions , offers little support . Gulf states , despite some improvement of relations with Saudi Arabia and Iran , are unlikely to challenge the sanctions by funding its recovery . Iran 's energy power is real -- but its monetization remains limited by external constraints and internal inefficiencies.INSTC Corridor -- Short on ExecutionIran 's role in the International North-South Transport Corridor ( INSTC ) -- the link for connecting Russia and Central Asia , could , in theory , shift regional trade patterns . But decades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political fragmentation in the region and India 's ambivalence as it also bets on the Gulf-centric IMEC.Without external investment and regional stability , INSTC remains an underutilized alternative , not a transformational one.Shia CrescentAn emerging new axis of economic cooperation of -- **31;1164;TOOLONG can turn Iran 's political control across Iraq , Syria , Lebanon and Yemen . It might translate into the " Shia Crescent " viewed as turning into a semi-integrated trade and logistics block , with Iranian goods , fuel , and currency flowing across borders . There are views that the US and the sunni Arabs would not like it.Would the fledgling Crescent be able to undermine the US-backed economic models in the region ; create alternative energy and trade routes , especially as Syria begins tentative reconstruction ? Would the West allow Tehran to dominate grey-zone economies that operate outside Western sanctions regimes ? Iran also a BRICS member , with China its emerging sympathiser , might become an important player in de-dollarising . In reality , with its rupee trade with India decades back , it had rolled it on . India cocooned under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be a strength for BRICS , much to the chagrin of MAGA backers . It 's uncertain if US would let Trump dream of -- MIGA- Make Iran Great Again , a reality or push an anti-Iran tirade ? Could there be an end or a new beginning to the tri-religion -- Judaism , Christianity and Islam -- Abrahamic war ? Iran is exploring crypto , currency swaps , and non-dollar trade . But these measures remain tactical workarounds , not scalable systems ; vulnerable to secondary sanction ; unattractive to larger , risk-averse economies , including India . The India-owned Chabahar port despite initial success is stuck . While symbolic , these financial alternatives do n't yet offer the foundation for a new economic order.Indian OppIndia has to reassess and take steps to become a leader of the global South . It may have to change its tack on the Gaza and force Israel to stop strikes as also negotiate with the Palestinians on humanitarian ground , ask the West to allow a free trade with Iran , establish peace in the region and shed ambiguities in diplomacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting in July . Launched on the sidelines of the 2023 G20 summit in New Delhi , the IMEC was hailed as a counterweight to China 's Belt and Road Initiative and Pakistan . It aimed to connect Indian ports to the UAE and Saudi Arabia , and further to Europe via rail and shipping routes.Tehran 's manoeuvres -- diplomatic , military , and strategic -- have complicated India 's outreach and interests across West Asia . The IMEC 's architecture carefully excluded Iran . That exclusion sowed the seeds of strategic retaliation from Tehran.Iran 's gains in stature are real -- but they do n't automatically translate into economic dominance . The perception of strength post-conflict may help Iran politically , but rebuilding its economy and reshaping regional economics will require a stable , long-term d ? tente with the West , major infrastructure investments , and an exit from isolation -- none of which are currently guaranteed.So , can Iran reshape regional economics ? Yes -- but only if it first reshapes the constraints that still define its economy . And that , for now , remains a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @
