<h> Trump warns ' hell to pay ' if Gaza hostages not freed before his inauguration <p> US President-elect Donald Trump on Monday warned Gaza militants of massive repercussions if hostages are not released by the time he takes office . <p> The threat comes after exhaustive diplomacy by outgoing President Joe Biden 's administration that has so far failed to secure a deal that would both end Israel 's war in Gaza and free hostages seized 14 months ago . <p> " If the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform . <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " <p> Trump has vowed staunch support for Israel and to dispense with Biden 's occasional criticism , but has also spoken of his desire to secure deals on the world stage . <p> Hamas staged the deadliest ever attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . The assault resulted in 1,208 deaths , mostly civilians , according to an AFP tally of Israeli official figures . <p> Militants seized 251 hostages during the attack , some of whom were already dead . Of those , 97 are still held in Gaza , including 35 the army says are dead . <p> Israel 's retaliatory campaign has killed 44,429 people in Gaza , according to figures from the territory 's health ministry that the United Nations considers reliable . <p> Members of an organised crime gang which smuggled up to ? 7bn worth of drugs into the UK from the continent have been jailed . The gang was behind what is believed to be the biggest drug smuggling operation ever detected in the UK . Judge Paul Lawton described the gang 's drug smuggling operation as being " on an industrial and hitherto unprecedented scale " . <p> Ipswich Town FC has defended the decision of its captain not to wear a rainbow armband in support of LGBTQ+ inclusion due to his religious beliefs . Egyptian midfielder Sam Morsy , who is a practicing Muslim , chose not to take part in the Rainbow Laces campaign during his side 's 1-0 defeat to Nottingham Forest this weekend . The 33-year-old is reported to be the only Premier League captain not to have worn the armband during the fixtures that took place between Friday 29 and Sunday 31 November . <p> Footballer Edoardo Bove is " currently awake , alert and oriented " in hospital after collapsing during a match in Italy on Sunday , his club has said . Fiorentina said on X on Monday that Bove had a " quiet " night , before being woken up and extubated . The midfielder , 22 , was taken to hospital after falling to the ground in their Serie A home game against Inter Milan at the Artemio Franchi Stadium in Florence . <p> The globe-trotting prime minister has hit back at his critics - and cosied up to Donald Trump like never before . After claims by opponents that he spends too much time abroad , Sir Keir Starmer has insisted his travels are in the UK 's interests . A reminder : in just under five months as PM , Sir Keir has made 10 overseas trips and spent 26 days out of the country . <p> Rescue crews rushed to the scene after reported strikes in Syria 's Idlib on Sunday , December 1 . Footage captured by Obada Jbara shows smoke billowing into the sky and crews responding to the aftermath of an attack in the Al-Qusour neighborhood.The Syria Civil Defense said on Sunday that nine people were killed and dozens injured after strikes on several neighborhoods in Idlib . Credit : Obada Jbara via Storyful <p> For the first time in more than a year , since the war started on October last year after Hamas militants launched an attack from the Gaza Strip , Israelis were able to visit areas that had seen harsh fighting between Israeli troops and Hezbollah fighters .
