<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> You do n't have to be Ha'aretz 's biggest fan to question Israel 's move to silence them <p> The liberal newspaper is just another obstacle Netanyahu is hoping to sweep away <p> Israeli newspaper Haaretz has apologised after losing hundreds of subscriptions when its publisher called Hamas ' freedom fighters ' at a London conference ( Photo by EMMANUEL DUNAND/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> December 02 , 2024 11:40 <p> Maybe the first sign was the executive order which passed a few months ago that enabled the government to shut down " foreign media outlet that endangers the security of the state " . Under the fog of war , the government decided to shut down Al Jazeera offices in Jerusalem and Ramallah in the West Bank , and blocked access to its website . <p> Many Israelis would n't have thought twice about this , given Al Jazeera 's history and especially how it has behaved since October 7 . <p> But obviously , the government did n't stop there . <p> When the Knesset opened its winter session , everything moved fast , and last week , the Israeli government passed two resolutions that dramatically limit the free press in the country -- a slippery slope that puts Israel 's democracy at risk . <p> One decision , or " recommendation " as the ministers euphemistically characterised it , was to impose economic sanctions on Ha'aretz , the most liberal paper in Israel , and the only mainstream media outlet in the country that happens to cover all sides of the war in Gaza . <p> It may seem indulgent to have these high-minded concerns in the middle of the war , but I would argue this is when they 're most necessary . <p> Haaretz is the only institutional outlet in Israel that tells readers what is actually happening in Gaza , providing daily reports on the casualties and destruction there , and on the humanitarian crisis that has been unfolding for months . It is the only publication that reports on the developments in Gaza Strip daily , not just from the Israeli point of view , which is dominant elsewhere in Israeli media . Ha'aretz coverage is thus not particularly flattering to government policy , and its investigative endeavours often make it look bad . <p> Ha'aretz is not free from controversy . The remarks by Amos Schocken in London rightly concerned many in Israel and the diaspora , but is this a reason for a government to turn on a free press ? I do n't think so . In any case , several Ha'aretz journalists publicly distanced themselves from his remarks <p> The government 's decision to boycott Ha'aretz by imposing sanctions on it , and ban the use of public funds for advertising or subscribing to the paper is obviously meant to weaken the paper 's economic sustainability , and punish it for its stance . Shlomo Karhi , the Minister of Communications , has repeatedly said that the government should not financially support critical media outlets . <p> A second decision has been to privatise Kan , the Israeli public broadcaster . This decision moved incredibly fast to become law by a Knesset resolution , and has already been passed a preliminary vote . Using the word " privatise " may be misleading , though , because the expressed intention is to eliminate this organisation -- the Communications Minister keeps exclaiming that he fails to understand why the government would need to pay for the news section at the station , which is " not balanced " -- meaning that he does n't want to support journalists who expose things from behind closed doors , nor does he want to support investigative journalism . <p> The above three initiatives go hand in hand , as part of a well-crafted master plan to weaken , and then eliminate , the free press in Israel , which would lead to total governmental control of the narrative . <p> And if that was not enough , they are also trying to pass a bill that would give the government total control of the internet , allowing them to block access to certain websites and social media networks and news sites , a common policy tool that 's part of the repertoire of authoritarian states like North Korea , China and Russia . <p> The government 's plans also include an orchestrated , organised and sometimes funded smear campaign from Netanyahu himself . Almost every time the Prime Minister goes on air via his social media accounts , or on a live broadcast , he has something cynical and humiliating to say about mainstream media . He constantly ignores them , never takes any interviews with them , and when he rarely answers questions in a press conference he never answers them seriously . He has given not a single sit-down interview with non-aligned Hebrew journalists for three years , appearing only on one channel , Channel 14 , which has been repeatedly and accurately criticised for spreading misinformation and far-right views . <p> The smear campaign against press freedom is carried out by Netanyahu 's supporters and members of the coalition , and it is extremely powerful on social media , where they distribute hate speech against individual journalists and media outlets , threaten journalists , and spread incitement . And this campaign has been successful : we are deeply concerned about the rise in violent incidents against journalists and TV crews . Recently , journalists and TV crews were violently attacked while covering a destruction caused by a missile ; some months earlier , a mob attacked journalists and prevented a live broadcast from a right-wing demonstration ( led by Knesset members ! ) that resulted in an invasion of an army base that holds Palestinian detainees ( also led by Knesset members ! ) . <p> The anti-media legislation may not pass , and the sanctions against Ha'aretz may be found unlawful by the Supreme Court , but the damage has already been done . Journalists are intimidated , and the public is encouraged to lose faith in mainstream media , to not trust them . Some of them seem to have already imposed self-censorship measures , hesitating to go into deep investigations or criticism . <p> Democracy can not survive without two key bases : a strong and independent legal system and a strong and independent free press . The Israeli government is fighting with all its might to destroy and weaken both .
