<p> Foreign Secretary David Lammy speaks as the United Nations Security Council meets to discuss the situation in the Middle East ( photo : Getty Images ) <p> An Israeli government spokesperson has hit back at criticism from the British government that the country is not doing enough to get aid into Gaza . <p> Foreign Secretary David Lammy posted on Monday on social media that the UK along with France and Germany had " written to the Israeli government to urge action on the unacceptable humanitarian situation in Gaza " . <p> Together ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? have written to the Israeli government to urge action on the unacceptable humanitarian situation in Gaza . <p> Oren Marmorstein , a spokesperson for Israel 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs responded on Tuesday that Israel was " facilitating the entry of humanitarian aid into the Gaza Strip and does not impose any restrictions on the quantity of aid entering the Strip . However , within the Gaza Strip , international organisations are failing to distribute the aid due to looting by Hamas , among other reasons . " <p> He added that it was : " disappointing that the Foreign Ministers of the E3 UK , France , Germany failed to address the October 7 massacre and the daily attacks on Israeli civilians since then in their letter . " <p> " Israel will continue to defend itself and its citizens , always in accordance with international law " , he added <p> And went on to say that the letter " will be answered through the proper official channels ( not via Twitter ) . " <p> Foreign Secretary David Lammy had been criticised by some for -- just a few hours before sending his critical tweet -- posing for a photo with Mandy Damari , whose 28-year-old daughter Emily is being held hostage by Hamas . <p> David Lammy sat next to Mandy Damari at lunch . He hugged her and said he was a Tottenham fan like her hostage daughter Emily . He heard her ask for our govt to demand humanitarian aid to the hostages . He heard her ask for a simple proof of life . This is what he wrote : https : **39;3724;TOOLONG ... The UK 's lack of focus on the plight of the 101 hostages held by Hamas was something Damari criticised in a speech at Labour Friends of Israel 's annual dinner yesterday . <p> She said the government 's decision to back a UN Security Council resolution calling for an unconditional ceasefire that was not tied to the release of hostages would " leave Emily and the other hostages in the hands of Hamas . Giving them no incentive to ever release them " . <p> She added that the vote on the resolution , which was rejected following a veto by the United States , shocked her and broke her heart . " There will be no peace until Emily and all the hostages are brought home " , she told the 550 guest . <p> Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer , who was a keynote speaker at the pro-Israel group 's event , said following Damari 's speech that : " There is no ceasefire worthy of the name , which does not , as item number one include the return of all the hostages . That is what we are working for , day and night . "
