<h> Sign up to The JC newsletter <h> The Israeli flag is more popular than you 'd think <p> Two encounters have restored my optimism that people grasp the reality of what Israel faces <p> Demonstrators wave Israeli flags during the ' National March for Gaza ' in London on July 6 , 2024 Photo : Getty <p> December 04 , 2024 11:30 <p> " Good on you , Karen , wave it with pride , " he said , pointing to the Israeli flag hanging off the back of a chair in my living room . <p> I 'd been to a Stop the Hate rally the week before and had meant to put the flag away and now Gary , the lovely man who has been cleaning the windows of my fourth-floor flat for the past 17 years , and with whom I have always put the world to rights on his biannual visits , had seen my Israeli flag , given it the thumbs up and , in an instant , made me like him even more than I already did . <p> " The silent majority is with you , Karen , " added Gary , after which we spent the thick end of an hour talking about the Middle East and how , in the main , working-class Brits understand Israel 's position and how , in the main , bien pensant liberals do not . <p> " What really gets me is when people say Israel should act proportionately , " I said to Steve . " I mean , a proportionate response to October 7 would be gangs of crazed bloodthirsty Israelis breaking into Gaza , raping , mutilating and murdering 1,200 Palestinians and kidnapping a further 240 . Is that what people want ? " <p> " What people want is to stop seeing those destroyed buildings on telly , night after night , Karen , " said Gary . " But we all want it to stop , do n't we ? Well , everyone except the Islamists . They want to kill as many of your lot as possible . " <p> After Gary left , I sat and gazed through my now crystal-clear living room windows . There was a lot to drink in . My Edwardian mansion block is on one of the steepest hills in the city and the views from its fourth floor are long . <p> Was Gary right ? Is this country 's silent majority really with the Jews ? Do most people understand that evil exists and must sometimes be fought ? Do they get that even in just and defensive wars , the innocent ca n't always be spared ? <p> The people of 1940s Britain did . In the final week of July 1943 , between 30,000 and 40,000 Germans were killed in a single night in Hamburg . Unlike in Gaza , where Israel 's rockets are guided and where leaflets are dropped telling people to leave areas , it was intentional . In Operation Gomorrah , the city 's civilian population was unquestionably the target of the RAF and United States Army Air Forces . <p> Historical records show that while Brits understood the devastation to German civilian life and were able to express regret for it , they were overwhelmingly in favour of the aerial bombing . They understood why British teenagers were dying to defeat Hitler . <p> Does this explain why , 80 years on , support for Israel is highest among retired Brits , the children of people who were alive during the Second World War and who have , in one way or another , been schooled by its lessons ? Does it also explain why poll after poll shows that support for Israel is lowest among the under-35s ? <p> I also suspect that older Brits see Britain 's minnow Jewish community in a way their grandchildren do n't . Boomers know that Jews have n't messed with the country , as Gary put it , and that we now have Islamists in public life who do . The fact we now have five " MPs for Gaza " disgusts him . " What has that got to do with Britain ? " <p> When I asked Gary if he 'd feel able to share these views with his other customers in my postcode , he said he would n't . " Everyone 's scared of being called racist or Islamophobic , are n't they ? But you get it , you know I 'm neither . " <p> I do . Gary has been cleaning my windows for 17 years , after all . <p> I also understand his fear of being labelled Islamophobic , even as I call for a bright , clear line to be drawn between Islamism , which everyone should be against , and Islam , a faith like any other . <p> A week after Gary 's visit , I had another flag incident . I was getting my car cleaned and opened the boot to show I 'd like it vacuumed , please . Another of my Israeli flags , a small car one , is in the boot , and the three men who were about to clean my car looked very Middle Eastern . Eek . <p> The shortest of the men fished it out , turned towards to me and gave a big thumbs up . " Oh , where are you from ? " I asked , suddenly feeling rather grateful . <p> " Iran , " he replied . He did n't , like Gary , say I should wave my Israeli flag with pride . But he did n't need to .
