<p> Farage criticised the government for not doing enough to help secure Emily Damari 's release . He also attacked Foreign Secretary David Lammy for posing for a photo with Mandy Damari and , shortly afterwards , tweeting about " humanitarian assistance in Gaza with not a mention -- not a mention -- of the hostages or Emily at all " . <p> Farage , who was first elected to Westminster in July , said the Labour government had " written off the Jewish population . They 're not interested . You know why ? <p> " There are n't enough of them , and they 're losing votes to hardline Islamist candidates and so they 're pandering to Hamas and the pro-Gaza as a side of the argument , " he said , referencing the defeats experienced by several Labour candidates at the general election to pro-Gaza independent candidates . <p> " The job of a British government is n't just to defend our territory , it 's to stand up for our citizens " , Farage said , referring to the Don Pacifico affair , in which merchant and British subject had his house burned down in an antisemitic attack in Athens in 1850 . <p> Don Pacifico demanded compensation from the Athens government and was backed up by then-foreign secretary Lord Palmerston who sent the Royal Navy to blockade the Greek coast . <p> Defending his decision in the House of Commons , Palmerston said : " As the Roman , in days of old , held himself free from indignity , when he could say Civis Romanus sum ( I am a Roman citizen ) ; so also a British subject , in whatever land he may be , shall feel confident that the watchful eye and the strong arm of England , will protect him against injustice and wrong . " <p> " We did it to defend our people , " Farage said , adding : " Today we have a British citizen being held by these savages , and the government appears not to even care less . " <p> The Reform UK leader also highlightedcomments by US president-elect Donald Trump who said there would be " hell to pay " if hostages held by Hamas were not released before his inauguration on January 20 next year . <p> Mr Farage said : " It takes an American president to stand up for a British citizen , because our government , frankly , ca n't be bothered . " <p> Yesterday Mandy Damari also met leader of the Conservative Party Kemi Badenoch , who said in a post on X/Twitter : " Mandy told me the harrowing story of Emily 's abduction on 7th October 2023 and I pay tribute to her strength as she campaigns for Emily 's release . I call on the government to do more to bring the hostages home . " <p> Yesterday , I met Mandy Damari , the mother of Emily Damari. 28-year-old Emily is the last British national held by Hamas in Gaza . <p> Mandy told me the harrowing story of Emily 's abduction on 7th October 2023 and I pay tribute to her strength as she campaigns for Emily 's release . <p> She said the government 's decision to back a UN Security Council resolution calling for an unconditional ceasefire that was not tied to the release of hostages broke her heart and would " leave Emily and the other hostages in the hands of Hamas . Giving them no incentive to ever release them " . <p> Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer , who was a keynote speaker at the pro-Israel group 's event , said following Damari 's speech : " There is no ceasefire worthy of the name , which does not , as item number one include the return of all the hostages . That is what we are working for , day and night . "
