<p> In Gaza , where despair is everywhere , hope is the vital currency offered to children and their families by Dr Yasser Abu Jamei , the psychiatrist in charge of running Gaza 's biggest mental health charity . <p> " Without hope , we can not pass anything on to those families , to those children , " says Abu Jamei , who for the past 12 years has directed the Gaza Community Mental Health Programme ( GCMHP ) . " Without hope , we would n't be here . We ca n't give up on 1 million children who live in Gaza , struck every day by the difficulties they are facing . We need to find the hope in their lives . " <p> This year , supported by the charity War Child , the organisation treated 3,000 people in its four community centres in Gaza . The 90 team members have also offered one-off psychological support to at least 30,000 people living in tents , shelters , schools and bombed-out buildings . <p> " Gaza 's 2.1 million population , 90% of whom are now displaced into overcrowded shelters , is severely affected psychologically . But without enough food or clean water , they are in survival mode , " says Abu Jamei . <p> Paradoxically , Abu Jamei says , it is often when the worst bombing is over that people seek mental health support . Then there is time to reflect and time to mourn . <p> " During war , people are in survival mode . When there is a ceasefire , their attention will shift to other needs , such as education and their psychological symptoms will start to appear . Usually , three to four weeks after a ceasefire is when we get an influx of people seeking support . " <p> The GCMHP , which is supported by War Child , one of this year 's three Guardian and Observer appeal charities , offers counselling , support and " psychological first-aid kits " to families . Simple things such as drawing materials for children can allow a break for a conversation to take place in overcrowded camps of thin canvas and plastic tents where the displaced civilians of this war have no privacy . <p> " We were impressed by how parents react positively to these kits , " says Abu Jamei . " They 're extremely happy to see their children drawing , and it brings about a change in the family . " <p> Over many years of working with families traumatised by years of conflict in Palestine , he has learned that children often respond to toys as prompts to better explain their feelings . <p> " Through drawing , they can talk . Then you can talk to the parents , to give advice about what they can do to calm their children and themselves and somehow reduce what they are dealing with . And this makes a really big difference . " <p> Abu Jamei says very few families are untouched by the war and by the long-running regional conflict . He knows this all too well -- in 2014 , an Israeli missile killed 28 members of his extended family . This year , after being displaced multiple times to temporary shelters , the father of six made the difficult decision to leave the territory . While in Cairo , where he now lives , he learned the house he had built in Gaza had been reduced to rubble . <p> A Palestinian child salvages items from the rubble of a building destroyed by an Israeli airstrike in Nuseirat , in the central Gaza Strip , on Sunday . Photograph : Eyad Baba/AFP/Getty Images <p> He suffers from " survivor guilt " , he says . But he accepts to be outside Gaza , to work with mental health professionals on better treatment methods and with the international community and donors . He carries on , even as the outlook in Gaza is bleak , by hearing of the positive impact his team has . " We try to draw a smile on the faces of children , " he says . <p> He gets daily updates via WhatsApp when the intermittent wifi works . Last week he heard from a social worker and psychologist with 15 years ' experience . Visiting camps in Deir al-Balah , she had been told of a mother deeply concerned about her 12-year-old son who had stopped eating and speaking after his friends were killed in front of him . <p> " The social worker went to that tent , to that lovely boy , who had brightly coloured eyes . She said : ' I know you have not spoken for three days . I am here just to listen to you , to give you space , for whatever comes to your mind . <p> " For 15 minutes , they sat in silence , and then the child started to cry . Then , in the first words he had spoken since the attack , he said : ' I saw my friends die in an apartment . They told me that they had gone to heaven but one of my friends , when they found him , he was decapitated . How can he go to heaven without his head ? ' <p> " The psychologist was able to reassure him , telling him heaven is a different reality and he did not need to worry . She persuaded him : ' Let 's eat something together . ' The mother was so grateful , she was tearful , to see her child crying and eating . It is really important people get to express themselves and mourn their loved ones . " <p> Abu Jamei does not discuss politics ; he concentrates on his team and their patients , but says he believes in a ceasefire because he has to . He also urges the international community to keep an eye on Gaza , especially when the war ends . <p> " It 's very important to maintain that hope , among our supporters , and also the international community . Because if you give up on us , and we give up on our people , then what 's going to happen ? It should n't be like that . We learn from history that injustice can not continue for ever . "
