<p> Limmud Festival is " desperately needed " in the Jewish community as an antidote to the current polarisation in society . <p> This is the message of the organisers of Anglo-Jewry 's largest cross-communal learning and cultural gathering , which kicks off in less than a fortnight . <p> Speaking to the JC , co-chair of programming Noa Gendler , said that one of the challenges was how to cover the topic of Israel since October 7 and the ensuing war to reflect the diversity of opinions within the community . <p> " In our role as programme planners , it was important that we put aside our own feelings about Israel and listened across the community to ensure that we were touching every part of the political and emotional spectrum . We tried to cast a really wide net . <p> " We 've got Israeli diplomats coming who will speak on behalf of the Israeli government , Liberal Zionists , who will speak out against the government , Israeli anti-Zionists and Palestinians . " <p> Describing Limmud Festival as " pluralistic " , Gendler said that it did n't matter which side of the political spectrum people were on " as long as they show tolerance and respect for people of different viewpoints . The purpose of Limmud is to bring people together across divides , and in this polarised world , this is desperately needed in the community . " <p> While she hoped participants would " find solace from being like-minded people , we are also hoping that they will want to stretch themselves by hearing perspectives they have n't listened to before " . <p> She added : " We are hopeful that whoever joins Limmud will feel that it 's a place for them to share their hopes and fears , thoughts and values , and that it 's a safe place to grapple with what has been a horrible time for all of us . " <p> Aside from sessions on Israel and Gaza , festival coordinators would also be creating three separate spaces around the venue for participants to have the opportunity for personal reflection on the past year . <p> The first would be a memorial space , where people would be able to say Kaddish if they wished to and have some quiet time away from the intense activity of the festival . " This is a non-prescriptive space . People can remember anyone they would like to , " said Abi Symons , the team-organisational link . <p> " While Limmud is a Jewish environment with mostly Jewish participants , we are very aware that Palestinians , Lebanese people and people with dual citizenship have died in this conflict . It 's not just about Israeli lives . This is a place for people to grieve for whoever they want to " <p> The second space connected to October 7 would be a space dedicated to the hostages with an empty table , inspired by the Shabbat tables which have been set up in several cities , including London and Leeds . As well as regular chairs , it would also include a highchair , symbolising the Bibas children , who have been held in captivity for 14 months . <p> Rather than being in a room , the installation would be in an open setting , said Symons . " We are communally holding our breath . We asked ourselves how we could honestly and authentically hold space for the hostage situation . We ca n't shut it away -- it is now part of the fabric of our world , " said Symons . <p> The third space would be a tree of hope , on which people would be able to pin a self-penned message . " Very loosely , the spaces symbolise the past , the present and the future , " said Symons . <p> This year 's festival , held once again in Birmingham at the end of the month , is expected to attract some 1,800 people across congregations and generations . <p> Over six days , the predominantly volunteer-led event will hold over 700 sessions within Jewish fields including arts and culture , history , politics , Torah and philosophy and spirituality and wellbeing , led by educators from the UK , Israel and a number of other countries . <p> Limmud Festival is a key event of Limmud , a Jewish cross-communal educational charity , which runs events throughout the year . Since Limmud was founded 41 years ago in the UK , over 80 other Limmud organisations have been set up around the world , including in the States , New Zealand and China .
