<p> The Charity Commission said it had opened a regulatory compliance case into DAT and an associated charity , the Abrar Islamic Foundation ( AIF ) , which is also based near Regent 's Park . It has been placed on hold , however , while the police examine the dossier and consider whether to launch a formal criminal investigation . <h> Advertisement <p> One of the trustees at DAT has praised a commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ( IRGC ) and wrote after the October 7 terrorist attacks by Hamas that Palestinians " rose up and became the master of the situation " . <p> Dr Saeed Shehabi , who is also a trustee at AIF , is a prominent member of the Bahraini opposition movement . He has lived in the UK since 1973 . <p> In January 2020 , Shehabi allegedly tweeted that Qasem Soleimani , the commander of the IRGC killed in a US drone strike , was a hero . He is reported to have said : " He had heart of iron , he feared only God , and looked down on arrogant people . Fair people described him as courageous , intelligent , wise , gentle and humble , but his enemies found no faults other than his resistance to tyranny . " The IRGC is designated a terrorist organisation by the US and Soleimani was subject to UK sanctions . <p> The day after the October 7 attacks , which are supported by Tehran , it is alleged that Shehabi tweeted in Arabic that " the oppressed Palestinian revolts and becomes the master of the situation . O God , support them . " The social media comments are referred to in the dossier to the Metropolitan Police . <h> Advertisement <p> In 2021 it is said that Shehabi provided a recorded message for an event in Iran organised by al-Wafa , the political arm of Al-Ashtar Brigades , a Bahraini militant group designated as terrorist by the UK and US . A spokesman for DAT said Shehabi did not attend in person or online and was unaware of the wider context of the event . <p> The spokesman said : " He was approached by a Bahraini activist to provide a recorded video address expressing solidarity with the Palestinian people . The only elements of this initiative Dr Shehabi had knowledge of are the contents of his address . <p> " Dr Shehabi has always been a peaceful opposition activist , firmly opposed to violence . He can not be held accountable for statements made by others at a conference , where his involvement was limited to a recorded message . " <p> Of his tweets on Soleimani , the spokesman said Shehabi did not go beyond describing the commander 's character . Soleimani was widely recognised as having a " complex legacy " , the spokesman said , citing a US former general who described him as capable , charismatic and skilled . DAT said Shehabi 's comments about October 7 did not represent its views . <p> Shehabi said : " As a lifelong advocate for the peaceful resolution of the conflict in Palestine , I have consistently opposed the ongoing 16-year blockade of Gaza , which has inflicted immense suffering on its residents . My comments did not endorse violence but expressed solidarity with the oppressed . " <h> Advertisement <p> The DAT spokesman said Shehabi was involved in litigation against Bahrain concerning alleged illegal surveillance and it suspected the regime of circulating false allegations to victimise him further . <p> Both charities , which describe themselves as " interfaith " , say they are law-abiding institutions . They deny any allegations of wrongdoing and are confident the authorities will conclude there is no illegality . <p> The Met confirmed it had received a referral in April " containing allegations relating to potential terrorist financing offences and breach of economic sanctions " . <p> A spokesman said : " The referral has been passed to the counter terrorism policing national terrorist financial investigation unit and specialist officers are in the process of assessing the referral to determine whether there is any basis upon which to open a formal investigation . " <p> The Charity Commission said it had opened a regulatory compliance case . A spokesman said : " The commission has no jurisdiction to decide questions of criminal liability or illegality and as such we have liaised with the Metropolitan Police Service who are considering the allegations raised . We continue to liaise with the police and when appropriate to do so we will fully engage with both charities . "
