<p> A Cambridge University Press law journal has apologised following the publication of a paper that explored how Israel may exploit natural gas reserves in Gaza if it annexed the area . <p> Following significant criticism the editorial board and editors-in-chief of the Leiden Journal of International Law ( LJIL ) issued an apology for the article . The editors also stated that they " recognise the grounds for criticism " and " are taking steps relating to the future of this particular piece and specifically how we can respond to the concerns that have been raised . " <p> The article examined different situations which would allow the gas reservoir known as Gaza Marine to be developed . <p> The abstract discussed how the gas fields were discovered in the area in 2000 but not developed due to the " complicated political status of the Gaza Strip over the past two decades " . The paper then details four scenarios in which they might be exploited , with the last of these being the " partial Israeli annexation of Gaza " . <p> This proposition created anger online , with critics accusing the Israel based academics who authored the piece of legitimising " colonial dispossession . " <p> Reacting to the piece , a PhD student told Times Higher Education that : " A primary function of Western academia is to enable and justify the West 's extractivist-colonialist depredations . Shame on you monsters . " <p> The paper does note that the annexation would be illegal and unlikely to further the development of the gas field . It also describes other scenarios in which the gas extraction could take place including Palestinian independence , continued occupation by Israel , and an international transitional administration in Gaza . <p> In a statement addressing the controversy , the LJIL said it " emphasizes the fundamental principles of international law that annexation of territories is unlawful and that the Palestinian people have the right to self-determination . " <p> A Cambridge University Press spokesperson told Varsity : " Cambridge University Press respects the independence of the journals it publishes to make editorial decisions in line with our Research Publishing Ethics Guidelines . " <p> Support Varsity <p> Varsity is the independent newspaper for the University of Cambridge , established in its current form in 1947 . In order to maintain our editorial independence , our print newspaper and news website receives no funding from the University of Cambridge or its constituent Colleges . <p> We are therefore almost entirely reliant on advertising for funding and we expect to have a tough few months and years ahead . <p> In spite of this situation , we are going to look at inventive ways to look at serving our readership with digital content and of course in print too ! <p> Therefore we are asking our readers , if they wish , to make a donation from as little as ? 1 , to help with our running costs . Many thanks , we hope you can help !
