<h> LATEST EDITORIAL <h> The peace movement v the Starmer war machine <h> From Storm Shadow missiles hitting Russia to support for the endless Gaza slaughter , the new Labour government has continued the years of Tory warmongering . The peace movement faces a crucial year ahead , writes LINDSEY GERMAN <p> LOUD AND CLEAR : People take part in a Palestine solidarity rally in central London <h> This is the last article you can read this month <h> You can read more article this month <h> You can read more articles this month <h> Sorry your limit is up for this month <p> THE traditional Christmas message of peace on Earth is unlikely to be heeded by the British government and its allies in the coming year . <p> If the declarations of Prime Minister Keir Starmer and his Foreign Secretary David Lammy are anything to go by , then we will see continued warmongering , increases in arms spending and a militant form of militarism which regards calls for peace as akin to treachery . <p> Anyone who expected a reprieve from the belligerence of 14 years of Tory rule will have been disappointed , not least in foreign policy . Starmer 's record on Gaza was appalling in opposition , losing Labour many thousands of votes as he continued to pronounce that Israel had the right to defend itself . In government , he has expressed repeated support for a government which is a pariah across the world . <p> Israel 's prime minister Netanyahu has been responsible for genocide in Gaza , has a warrant out for his arrest as a war criminal , has been excoriated in a recent report by Amnesty International , and is carrying out ethnic cleansing against the Palestinians in Gaza , the West Bank and Jerusalem . Deaths stand at over 45,000 , and that is a conservative estimate . <p> A recent Airwars report demonstrates the unique intensity of Israel 's genocidal bombing of Gaza in its early months . After 15 months of acting with complete impunity , Israel has now invaded Syria and is bombing repeatedly , as it has done with Lebanon . <p> None of this receives more than the mildest rebuke from the Labour government , which refuses to stop arming Israel or put any sort of sanction on its war criminals and their allies . Instead , Starmer speaks at Labour Friends of Israel events and does nothing to condemn the supporters of Israel who attack anyone who shows solidarity with the Palestinians . <p> On Ukraine , Starmer has been one of the most belligerent in sending arms and insisting that he will stand with Ukraine " as long as it takes . " <p> He has been urging the use of British-made Storm Shadow missiles on Russian territory for months -- and this is now happening , as is the use of US-made ATACMS missiles against Russia . These amount to direct interventions by nuclear-armed powers against another nuclear power , thus increasing the risk of nuclear war . <p> In the past three years , Britain has sent increasing levels of weaponry and equipment to Ukraine , underlining how much this is a proxy war between Nato and Russia . <p> Over that time , millions have become refugees , hundreds of thousands have died , many more have serious injuries , and there has been a terrible cost in human lives , environmental destruction and threats to mental and physical health . <p> Ukraine is losing this bloody war of attrition . Levels of desertion from the Ukrainian army have risen sharply . There is growing opposition to the war itself and to the extension of conscription . <p> It is widely accepted that there will be some sort of peace negotiations next year -- even Ukrainian President Zelensky has admitted this -- yet in the meantime , the main European powers and the US urge the continuation of a war which has no winners . <p> Meanwhile , the cold war with China is turning hot , with growing levels of armament by Western allies in the Pacific , threats of sanctions and high-profile spy scandals . <p> All this takes place against a terrifying level of arms spending internationally , which now stands at the incredible figure of $2.4 trillion a year . Starmer is committed to increasing British " defence " spending to 2.5 per cent of GDP a year at a time when his government attacks the Waspi women and pensioners ' fuel allowance . <p> The Nato powers are planning to demand this increase to 3 per cent of GDP -- and we can be sure that Starmer will be among the most enthusiastic for it . <p> These shocking developments from a Labour government are creating wide opposition , which needs to grow in the new year . The anti-war and peace movement in Britain has to build on its mass mobilisations around Palestine solidarity to create wide opposition to war , whether in the Pacific , eastern Europe or the Middle East . <p> We should also oppose the imperialist system that leads to these wars and helps to sustain them against the best interests of the people of the world . Our opposition to the " war on terror " in Afghanistan , Iraq , Libya and Syria has been proved right by events : rather than peace and stability resulting from these interventions , we have seen worsening conditions , the creation of failed states , and an increase in the terrorism which was supposed to be eradicated . <p> We should be proud of what we have achieved with the Stop the War Coalition in Britain , despite the best efforts of most politicians and the media to stop us . But it is clear that 2025 is going to be very dangerous and unstable . <p> Even if there are peace settlements in Ukraine and Gaza , they will be fragile and volatile . They will involve very high levels of troops and weaponry protecting buffer zones and borders . And they will lead to further conflicts unless the movement internationally grows strong enough to defeat them . <p> That will depend not on governments but on the working people of the world recognising that war is not in their interests and organising to stop it .
