<h> The UK 's stance on Israel is about to become way more complicated <p> Starmer and Lammy can not hope that the questions will only last a few more months <p> December 28 , 2024 7:00 am <p> The Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary will be asked repeatedly to comment on US-Israel policy with each new utterance from President Trump ( Photo : Saul Loeb/AFP ) <p> cancel **31;843;TOOLONG Share bookmark Save <p> share cancel **34;876;TOOLONG <p> " Israel is only getting started " is not a statement that would automatically spark joy in UK government ministers who are still trying to work out how to relate to Benjamin Netanyahu . Just days ago , Keir Starmer said in his Christmas message that he was particularly hoping for peace in the Middle East . Israel 's strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen suggest that wish is n't coming true any time soon . As one conflict closes , another opens up . <p> And yet as well as at least notionally supporting Israel 's right to defend herself against terrorists who want to eliminate the Jewish state , the UK also has an interest in tackling the Houthi rebels . They are not just a threat to Israel or the wider region , but also to this country , which is why the UK and US took part in strikes against the Iranian-backed group earlier this year . <p> The difference , of course , now is that Israel is the country on the attack , and the international narrative currently is that an intervention from Israel is bad , even if the same action by other countries was Ok . The Israeli action to dismantle Syria 's chemical weapons capability after the fall of the Assad regime was not seen as a positive , but as a potential escalation in the region . <p> Netanyahu has specifically pointed to what happened in Syria , along with the conflict with Hamas and Hezbollah , as a reason for pursuing the Houthis . " As I said , Hamas learned , Hezbollah learned , and Syria learned , " he said , adding : " The Houthis will learn too . " Hamas and Hezbollah have " learned " in part through the targeting of their leaders by the IDF . But the Houthis are not an easy force to defeat : Saudi Arabia has also been trying to fight them for years . This suggests another protracted conflict when Israel is now into its 15th month of fighting Hamas following the 7 October atrocities . Once again , the UK will have to work out how to talk about this conflict . <p> There will be pressure when Parliament returns to criticise the retraction of a US report which warned that a " famine scenario " was unfolding in Gaza . The word " famine " is almost as hotly contested as the word " genocide " , something pro-Palestinian Labour MPs want the UK Government to say is happening in Gaza . Starmer has refused to do this . Yemen itself was an extremely sensitive topic within Labour when Jeremy Corbyn was leader , and the involvement of Israel threatens to reignite those political tensions . <p> Complicating matters is the fact that Keir Starmer and David Lammy want to work constructively with the incoming Trump administration , which will expect a much more full-throated support of Israel than the UK has offered for a while . The Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary will be asked repeatedly to comment on US-Israel policy with each new utterance from President Trump . <p> Working out how to balance those differences is going to be one of the early jobs of the new ambassador to Washington , Peter Mandelson . <p> Mandelson has compared calls to back a ceasefire in Gaza to suggestions that the UK should have done nothing to dismantle the IRA during the Troubles . He is not the only senior Labour figure to make parallels between Northern Ireland and the Middle East : Starmer himself has drawn on his own experience of working with the Police Service of Northern Ireland in the 2000s . <p> He has now tasked Lammy with trying to copy some of the work in the peace process there , with an international summit in London early in the new year , where civil society organisations building dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians will discuss how to create a lasting peace and move closer to a two-state solution . <p> The chances of that solution still seem pretty far off at present : hopes before Christmas of a ceasefire in the conflict with Hamas turned to naught , and Netanyahu suggested they were just rumours spread to weaken Israel 's position . Until there is a deal which not only leads to the release of the remaining hostages , but also leaves Israel confident that Hamas is not in power in Gaza and can not continue to threaten Israelis ' security , then a ceasefire is not possible . <p> There are a lot of " untils " in this column , which means Starmer and Lammy can not hope that the questions about their stance on Israel will only last a few more months . As Netanyahu said , those questions are only just starting .
