<h> MY ACCOUNT <h> Jimmy Carter was right about Israel <p> Carter never shied away from what seemed the most intractable problems of the Middle East <p> December 30 , 2024 5:02 pm <p> Caption : Former US President Jimmy Carter ( right ) gestures as he arrives to inspect the damages of the American International School which was destroyed during the December-January Israeli offensive in Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza strip on 16 June 2009 ( Photo : AFP ) <p> cancel **31;1413;TOOLONG Share bookmark Save <p> share cancel **34;1446;TOOLONG <p> A businessman called Steve Berman , from Jimmy Carter 's home state of Georgia , wrote a moving piece last year in the Jewish-American magazine Forward . <p> Sixteen years earlier , Berman had been the leader of 15 board members who had resigned in protest from the Carter Centre , the international NGO that the US president had formed after leaving office . Like many other Jewish-Americans , Berman had been infuriated by Jimmy Carter 's book , Palestine : Peace not Apartheid , and he was far from convinced by Carter 's explanation that , while he was not saying that Israel was already an apartheid state , it was moving in that direction because of its occupation of Palestinian territory . <p> In his article , Berman , a visitor to Israel since childhood , described how , over subsequent years , he had begun to see that Carter was likely to have been " right " . So much so that , in 2015 , he wrote Carter a personal apology over the resignation , saying that he had now concluded that while the occupation had begun " by accident " after the Six Day War of 1967 , it was now becoming " an enterprise with colonial intentions " . <p> Berman had always been relatively liberal , but his story still illustrates the extent to which Carter was ahead of his time , using language about Israel 's treatment of the Palestinians that was far less common then than it is now . <p> Carter was in fact never " anti-Israel " , as he was routinely described by critics of his book . Instead , he became one of the global champions of a solution in which Israel could live in security side by side with a Palestinian state . <p> After all , his greatest foreign policy achievement was his mediation which secured the ground-breaking , historic and still surviving Egypt-Israel treaty in 1979 , which in Berman 's own words had " spared thousands of lives on the Israeli-Egyptian border " and saved " hundreds of billions of dollars in military costs " . <p> At one point during the Camp David summit which preceded the treaty signing , Carter took both delegations to Gettysburg to underline the lessons of the American Civil War and the dangers of not making peace . <p> Carter had wanted to do more , of course , by securing a lasting solution to the core Middle East conflict . But unlike the many other US presidents who had failed to do that in office , Carter devoted himself in retirement -- beside his pursuit of many other causes like the reduction of famine and disease in Africa -- to finding the just peace between Israelis and Palestinians that looks so distant today . <p> Nor did Carter shy away from what seemed the most intractable problems of the conflict . In 2009 I was in Gaza , where my friend Sami Abdel-Shafi was the Carter Centre 's representative , when Carter became , at the age of 84 , easily the highest profile Western figure to meet Hamas leaders , despite the two-year-old international boycott . <p> Carter was characteristically robust in calling for an end to the Israel-Egypt blockade , which he described as treating Gaza 's inhabitants as " more like animals than human beings " and condemning the recent military offensive in Gaza , as well as the firing of rockets by militants from the Strip . <h> Read Next <p> But his three hours of talks with senior Hamas officials , including Ismail Haniyeh , then its leader in Gaza but assassinated by Israel this year , were devoted to trying to tease out potential common ground between Hamas and the international community , including a concerted effort to persuade Hamas to accept the three conditions for ending the boycott : recognition of Israel , renunciation of violence , and accepting previous agreements , including the Oslo accords . <p> Hamas had indicated that it would accept a Palestinian state on 1967 borders if it was backed in a referendum , and this was a high point for the more political elements in Hamas seeking international recognition . <p> Had the Carter initiative been more energetically followed up by Western governments , it 's just possible that Hamas leadership would not have much later passed to a more militarist tendency ; its October 2023 attack on Israel and the devastating retaliation by Israel still going on after 14 months might not have happened . <p> Carter remained highly critical of Israel 's present prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , for having " no intention at all for a two-state solution " . And he was scathing about Donald Trump 's plan in his first term for a " Deal of the Century " , saying he saw little or no hope of it bringing " justice for the Palestinians " . <p> But he said in 2006 he was as invested in Israel 's security as his critics , saying that " the greatest commitment in my life has been trying to bring peace to Israel " -- a peace which he believed would follow an end to occupation . <p> Meanwhile , within a week of his own 2015 letter to Carter , Steve Berman received a handwritten note from the ex-president saying he had no need to apologise . His Forward article was headlined : " I was wrong about Israel . I apologised . Then President Carter gave me a lesson in grace . "
