<p> " Elon goes on these destiny quests , " a prominent conservative said . " And then a lot of the government is on a destiny quest . " Illustration by Barry Blitt <p> On March 27th , Sahil Lavingia walked into the Secretary of War Suite , in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building , to attend an all-hands meeting of the Department of Government Efficiency . Lavingia had been a DOGE employee for two weeks , part of a small team embedded at the Department of Veterans Affairs . So far , it had been an unexpectedly isolating experience . Lavingia communicated over the messaging app Signal with another member of the V.A . ' s DOGE team , but there did n't seem to be a Signal channel where he could interact with the rest of DOGE . Instead , Lavingia would watch Elon Musk , who led the initiative , engage with his allies on X. Lavingia told me , " You 'd see where the dolphins were swimming -- like , now we 're looking at D.E.I . contracts -- and so you 'd swim there , too . " <p> Before coming to Washington , Lavingia lived in New York , where he worked at Gumroad , an e-commerce site that he 'd founded more than a decade earlier . He was n't really a MAGA guy , but he had always thought it would be interesting to work in government , and he admired Musk . In October , at a tech meetup at the New York offices of the venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz , Lavingia talked with someone who later introduced him to a DOGEstaffer . The staffer put him in touch with a DOGE engineer , who connected him with a DOGE recruiter . The calls did n't last much longer than five minutes . " All the questions were about ' When can you move to D.C. ? ' " Lavingia said . Eventually , Lavingia told me , he talked to Steve Davis , the president of Musk 's Boring Company , who asked if Lavingia could code . Yes , Lavingia said . A few weeks later , he got a text : a job had opened up at the V.A . " I felt like , O.K. , finally , that 's some information , " Lavingia said . He started in mid-March , making an hourly wage of about thirteen dollars . <p> President Donald Trump formally created DOGE by executive order on his first day in office , rebranding what had been the United States Digital Service , a kind of internal tech consultancy for the federal government . Musk 's allies quickly staffed it : Davis , who had helped Musk overhaul Twitter , effectively became C.O.O. , and Chris Young , a Republican political operative who had led Musk 's super PAC , became a senior adviser . On February 2nd , Wired identified six young computer engineers , all in their late teens or early twenties , who were working for DOGE . The young coders , collectively dubbed the " DOGE kids , " had set up shop at the Office of Personnel Management and at the General Services Administration , where , according to Politico , some of them appeared to be living , having furnished four rooms with IKEA beds . That cinched the cultural image . DOGE was the tech industry 's outpost in government , the department that would move fast and break things . <p> Initially , it was hard to know how seriously to take the new venture , whose name derived from a meme coin . A senior figure at a conservative think tank predicted to me that DOGE would yield nothing more than a government report that would get stuffed away in a drawer . But DOGE staffers were soon identifying contracts to cancel and employees to let go . On January 28th , the Office of Personnel Management sent most federal employees an e-mail titled " Fork in the Road , " which warned of involuntary downsizing to come and offered them the chance to resign with eight months of pay and benefits . ( Musk had sent Twitter employees an e-mail with nearly the same subject shortly after he bought the social-media company , which he rebranded as X. ) Those who stayed in their jobs were soon required to document , at the end of each week , five things that they had worked on . A series of lawsuits accumulated in DOGE 's wake , but its actions seemed to be producing results . At the end of March , the Times estimated that the federal government had potentially been cut by twelve per cent . <p> Lavingia and other members of the DOGE team at the V.A . had prepared a list of accomplishments to present at the all-hands meeting . There were about fifty people in the room at the Secretary of War Suite , a surprisingly small number , Lavingia thought , if this was all of DOGE . When Musk walked in , he asked attendees to share their recent victories , and pontificated about how broken the government was . " It was this very surreal scene , " Lavingia said . He tried to engage Musk in a conversation about a project , but " everyone looked at me like I was weird , like , ' Why are you trying to get feedback from your boss ? ' " At one point , someone asked how many I.T . workers there were at the I.R.S. It turned out to be more than seven thousand . ( The agency has a total of around a hundred thousand employees . ) A member of DOGE 's I.R.S. team said that he thought the tax agency needed an " exorcist . " " Elon was , like , ' Wait , seriously ? ' " Lavingia recalled . After a few hours , Lavingia left , disappointed . " It 's almost like this is one of the things you get for working at DOGE , " he said . " You get to hang out with Elon once in a while . " <p> Lavingia had already grown skeptical of the effort . At the V.A. , he 'd initially planned to update what he 'd been told was an outmoded and fragmented human-resources system , but it seemed to be working just fine . " DOGE never had an information flow that was , like , ' Hey , Elon wants us to do this , ' " Lavingia said . " You 're asked to give a lot , but you do n't get any access to information . " In April , he returned to New York , working remotely on improving the V.A . ' s internal chatbot , VA GPT . In early May , he gave an interview that was published in Fast Company , in which he said of the government , " It 's not as inefficient as I was expecting , to be honest . I was hoping for more easy wins . " Not long after that , his access to the V.A . systems was cut off ; he was fired . <p> Later that month , Musk announced that he , too , was leaving DOGE , after a run in which he had impressively stretched the definition of what a " special adviser " to the President could do . In Trump 's White House , with its long red ties and compulsory praise circles , Musk wore novelty T-shirts and baseball caps , and attended meetings with his four-year old son , X , whom Trump pronounced " a high-I.Q. individual . " He installed a Starlink satellite system on the White House roof , and sold Trump a red Tesla on the White House lawn . Trump obligingly climbed into the driver 's seat and assessed the car 's interior . " Everything 's computer , " the President observed . <p> " It 's the door-to-door koalas again . " <p> Cartoon by Victoria Roberts <p> Link copied <p> At Musk 's sendoff in the Oval Office , Trump presented him with an oversized White House key and said that his work on DOGE had " been without comparison in modern history . " But the relationship between the two men , always transactional , had turned into a bad deal for both of them . DOGE had achieved far fewer savings than Musk had anticipated , leaving Trump backing a budget bill that would add trillions to the deficit . Musk 's work for Trump , meanwhile , had alienated liberals and centrists , tanking Tesla 's sales and stock price . In the Oval Office , Musk had a black eye , which he said he 'd got after his son hit him in the face . A reporter asked him about a recent Times story alleging that he had used ketamine and other drugs extensively on the campaign trail . Musk said , " Let 's move on . " <p> Within days , Trump announced that he was withdrawing the nomination of Jared Isaacman , Musk 's business associate , to run NASA , after " a thorough review of prior associations . " Musk called the Republican budget bill a " disgusting abomination , " and later started a poll on X asking if it was time to start a new political party . Trump seemed to take this personally , posting that the easiest way to save money in his budget bill would be to " terminate " the " Billions and Billions of Dollars " in government subsidies that Musk 's companies received . " Elon was ' wearing thin , ' " the President wrote . " I asked him to leave , I took away his EV Mandate that forced everyone to buy Electric Cars that nobody else wanted ( that he knew for months I was going to do ! ) , and he just went CRAZY ! " Musk responded , " Such an obvious lie . So sad . " <p> For a few hours on June 5th , the President and the world 's richest man went back and forth , until the fight landed on the subject of many rabid internet disputes -- the convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein . " Time to drop the really big bomb , " Musk wrote . " @realDonaldTrump is in the Epstein files . That is the real reason they have not been made public . Have a nice day , DJT ! " ( Trump addressed the claim , telling NBC that he was " not at all friendly " with Epstein . ) <p> At that point , many of the most experienced and talented government workers had left their jobs . Those who remained were often forced to pare back the mission and the scope of their work . Jacob Leibenluft , a senior Biden official , told me , " What DOGE has done , what the Administration has done , is cause a remarkable exodus of talent -- of people who have built years and years of knowledge that is critical to the government functioning and who would , under normal circumstances , pass that knowledge on to the next generation of civil servants . " <p> Lavingia thought that the rupture between Musk and Trump had probably marooned many of the remaining DOGE employees , too , some of whom are still embedded in agencies throughout the federal government . It was also possible , Lavingia told me , that DOGE 's strength and its weakness had the same source . He 'd seen from the inside that DOGE had no real internal structure . " At the end of the day , " he said , " DOGE is just Elon . " <p> Dawn on the Potomac River : rowers , joggers , a quickening column of jets descending toward the runways at Reagan National . Culs-de-sac empty ; park-and-ride lots fill ; the Beltway clogs hellishly . The federal government is everywhere . It is downtown , in the marble buildings near the White House , a sort of nineteenth-century visual trick to lend the appearance of Greco-Roman permanence to what remains a somewhat tenuous political project . But it is also in the Baltimore suburb of Woodlawn , where ten thousand people work at the Social Security Administration 's headquarters ; on the brick campus of the National Institutes of Health , in Bethesda ; and in the sprawl of the defense contractors out toward Dulles . This is not the political D.C. , but the projects are vast . I recently asked a former senior official at the S.S.A . if she 'd been worried when Trump won . " Not really , " she said . " My focus was on the solvency crisis . " <p> Conservatives tend to inveigh against the federal apparatus in Washington ; liberals mostly defend it . But the operations of government reflect both Republican and Democratic ambitions . Paul Light , a scholar of public service at N.Y.U. 's Wagner School , has estimated that federal contractors outnumber civil servants by two to one . Elaine Kamarck , of the Brookings Institution , has found that the majority of federal employees now work in security-related fields -- thirty-six per cent of them at the Department of Defense alone . For the most part , the U.S. government is organized not to pursue transformative change but to create systems of accountability , and the growth of its expenditures is mostly tied to the sheer scale of what it is keeping tabs on . Federal spending has quintupled since the mid-sixties , adjusting for inflation , to about seven trillion dollars a year . The number of federal workers has basically stayed flat . <p> People cheat the federal government all the time , in all kinds of ways . Waste exists at every level . In 2011 , Boeing was found to have been grossly overcharging the Army for spare helicopter parts ; a four-cent metal pin , for example , was billed at $71.01 . In 2020 , Harvard returned $1.3 million to the Department of Health and Human Services after a public-health professor allegedly overstated how much time she 'd spent working on an overseas AIDS-relief grant . Jetson Leder-Luis , a professor at Boston University who studies health-care fraud , told me that , within Medicare and Medicaid , " you get everything from doctors reclassifying procedures to , like , organized crime . " <p> Leder-Luis likes to cite a study that he and some colleagues conducted on fraudulent billing for dialysis transportation . Medicare has long reimbursed patients too sick to get to dialysis on their own for the cost of ambulance rides . But some unscrupulous actors ( Leder-Luis thinks they were mobsters in Philadelphia ) realized that it was possible to pay kickbacks to relatively healthy dialysis patients for ambulance rides they did n't need . Word spread ; between 2003 and 2017 , Leder-Luis and his colleagues estimated , Medicare spent around five billion dollars on fraudulent ambulance rides . " The F.B.I . has videos of some patients walking in and out of ambulances , " Leder-Luis told me . Dialysis costs make up roughly one per cent of the federal budget . If there was that much fraud in dialysis transportation , Leder-Luis said , imagine how much there is across the entire public sector . <p> In recent years , wonks in both parties have begun to focus on government inefficiency as a problem . On the center left , the so-called abundance movement calls for a thinning of regulation , to allow the country to more easily create housing and clean energy . On the Trumpist right , the prevailing view is that the government has been overtaken by left-wing ideologues and the only solution is to clear-cut the bureaucracy . Trump spent the campaign promising to purge the federal government of wokeism ; his advisers were committed enemies of foreign aid , consumer protection , and the Department of Education . Project 2025 , a nine-hundred-page playbook for a conservative President to " dismantle the administrative state , " called the independence of the bureaucracy an " unconstitutional fairy tale . " <p> The last major campaign to remake the Washington bureaucracy was championed by Vice-President Al Gore , during the Clinton Administration , and developed under the name Reinventing Government . The idea was to bring the public sector up to date with the internet . Kamarck , of the Brookings Institution , was its lead staff member . She leveraged the government 's own expertise : teams of civil servants from other departments were embedded with each agency to streamline and improve its processes . Eventually , the Clinton White House got Congress to pass more than eighty separate laws related to the Reinventing Government initiative . " If you want these changes to be permanent , " Kamarck told me , " the only way to do it is to get them in law . " <p> DOGE was conceived in something like the opposite fashion . In the spring of 2023 , Vivek Ramaswamy , a biotech entrepreneur who had recently launched a bid for the Republican Presidential nomination , invited a New York lawyer named Philip Howard to meet with him at his campaign headquarters in Columbus , Ohio . Since the nineties , Howard has been a guru for business leaders interested in civil-service reform . Ramaswamy wanted to test out some ideas for remaking the federal bureaucracy . As the meeting progressed , Howard had the sense of an " over-intelligent mind spinning into some new theory that creates a new reality that 's not actually connected to reality . " At one point , he recalled , " Vivek was saying , ' I think the President can really shut down agencies . ' I said , ' You know , Congress establishes an agency . Do you really think the President can just . . . ' And he said , ' Oh , yes , yes , it 's fine . ' " Howard later told one of Ramaswamy 's advisers , " I really do n't think Vivek should go public with this , because it 's just not credible . " <p> A week after the election , Trump announced in a formal statement that " the Great Elon Musk , working in conjunction with American Patriot Vivek Ramaswamy , will lead the Department of Government Efficiency . " Initially , the two co-chairs seemed poised to occupy separate spheres . Ramaswamy would spearhead a deregulation effort ; Musk would focus on cost cutting . In a joint op-ed in the Wall Street Journal , they said that they would work closely with the Office of Management and Budget , which is often described as the federal government 's central nervous system . Before the election , Ramaswamy suggested in an interview that the White House could simply fire all nonpolitical appointees whose Social Security numbers began with an even digit or ended with an odd digit . " Boom , that 's a seventy-five-per-cent reduction , " he said . A month later , Musk was asked how much money DOGE might save taxpayers . " I think we can do at least two trillion , " he said . <p> But during the transition Ramaswamy and Musk increasingly disagreed about how to make the government more efficient . Ramaswamy , who had apparently come around to the fact that significant cuts would require an act of Congress , began meeting regularly with a small group of legislators . Musk mostly did not attend . A source close to DOGE told me that Musk seemed to regard members of Congress as irrelevant , sometimes referring to them as " N.P.C.s , " -- non-player characters -- the often mute and nameless figures who populate the backgrounds of video games . <p> " You kissed someone else ? For a fish ? " <p> Cartoon by Polly Adams <p> Link copied <p> Musk was more interested in cutting spending via the executive branch , and spoke often , according to the source close to DOGE , of a need to " control the computers . " In meetings , Ramaswamy resorted to using metaphors from the tech world to emphasize the importance of deregulation , calling the government 's rules " the matrix " and insisting that DOGE needed to rewrite its source code . Musk was unmoved . <p> On the eve of the Inauguration , CBS News quoted a White House insider saying , " Vivek has worn out his welcome . " The following day , Ramaswamy left DOGE . Musk , in the faintly stuffy office he inherited in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building , reportedly installed a large-screen TV , so that he could play video games ; he sometimes slept there . A prominent conservative told me that , online , people were devising ways to influence Musk 's efforts . " You do it by tweeting at Elon and sucking up to him , " he said . " He 's like a prism , and all of social media kind of feeds to him through X. " The trouble , he said , was that " Elon goes on these destiny quests , sometimes looking for something that is n't there , and then a lot of the government is on a destiny quest . " <p> Danny Werfel spent much of his career in the federal government . He worked as a policy analyst in the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs , as a trial attorney in the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice , and as controller at the Office of Management and Budget . Most recently , as Biden 's commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service , he was given the rare opportunity to not only run the government but also change it . Congress had pledged eighty billion dollars over ten years to modernize the I.R.S. and bring its collection of taxes up to par with the efforts to evade them . Werfel had expanded the agency 's Large Business and International Division , its enforcement efforts targeting cryptocurrency and high-net-worth individuals , and its investments in artificial intelligence and other technologies . As late as December , 2024 , he was still hiring the next generation of civil servants . At the I.R.S. 's annual holiday party , employees were invited to have their photo taken with him ; one young man , after the camera clicked , said , " Thank you , Coach ! " He was a new hire , right out of college . A decade earlier , he and Werfel 's son had played in the same northern-Virginia Little League . His father , it turned out , also worked at the I.R.S. <p> After Trump won , Werfel " was n't a hundred per cent sure " that the new Administration would continue the I.R.S. 's modernization efforts , but he tried to engage with it in good faith . In early January , representatives from Trump 's transition team and DOGE met with I.R.S. leaders over Zoom to discuss the handover of power . Werfel 's team had rehearsed the scenario , fine-tuning the language that they planned to use . " We said , ' Look , we know you have a remit for shrinking government from a people standpoint , ' " Werfel recalled . " ' Do we have that right ? ' And they did n't argue -- they agreed . We said , ' Would n't it be great if you could do that and also improve or maintain the performance of the I.R.S. , and its collections ? ' And it was , like , ' O.K. , we 're listening . ' " <p> Werfel promised the Trump officials that , with a little patience , the I.R.S. could employ fewer federal workers and bring in more revenue . The more effective tax regime that Werfel had been building was not just funded ; it was half assembled , like the Death Star . He urged the Administration to give it time to become fully operational . " Think of it as spans across a stream , " Werfel said . " Some of the spans are complete , and you can drive across and automate . Some of them are only halfway complete , so you ca n't drive until you finish the span , and some of them you need to build before you begin . " Werfel proposed that the Trump Administration commit to reducing the agency 's personnel in the course of two to four years , and that it " modernize strategically , " to insure that fewer people did n't mean less revenue or worse service . " That was our pitch , " Werfel said . " It resonated in the moment . " <p> Hours after being sworn in , Trump signed twenty-six executive orders , restoring the federal death penalty , withdrawing the U.S. from the World Health Organization , placing a ninety-day pause on foreign aid , and eliminating **30;2069;TOOLONG programs across the federal government . The executive order establishing DOGE seemed , by comparison , to describe a humble purpose : " to implement the President 's DOGE Agenda , by modernizing Federal technology and software to maximize governmental efficiency and productivity . " Musk , though a frequent presence in the West Wing , was technically an unpaid adviser . <p> One area of focus for both Musk and the Administration was eradicating what the Tesla founder called the " woke mind virus . " DOGE soon boasted of cutting more than a billion dollars in D.E.I . contracts . But what , exactly , qualified as a D.E.I . program was open to interpretation . At Social Security headquarters , civil servants were directed to scrub mentions of " diversity " and " equity " from grants , publications , and performance evaluations . Laura Haltzel , who was the associate commissioner for the Office of Research , Evaluation , and Statistics , told me , " It was , like , ' O.K. , this is incredibly inefficient . But we 'll get through it . ' " <p> For twenty-five years , Haltzel 's office had operated a research-and-grant program to study the effects and the viability of the Social Security system . Recently , the program had been awarding points to potential grantees if they partnered with institutions that served minority populations , such as historically Black colleges and universities . Because of this , Haltzel told me , she was ordered to shut down the entire program , a request that she viewed as absurd . The program was not focussed on race or gender . It predated the term " D.E.I . " by decades . Haltzel 's boss had petitioned the Office of Management and Budget not to end the initiative altogether , to no avail . " They said , ' You 've got to kill it , ' " Haltzel said . <p> Similar changes were under way at the I.R.S. , where workers were deleting references to " diversity , " " equity , " and " inclusion " from the service 's employee handbook . A senior I.R.S. official told me , " If you could measure enforcement actions by month , I bet you 'd have seen a significant decline in February , because everyone was worrying about what to do about their jobs . " On February 4th , Musk posted a survey on X : " Would you like @DOGE to audit the IRS ? " Two weeks later , seven thousand of the agency 's probationary employees -- those who 'd been hired in the past year or so -- were fired . An I.R.S. employee told ProPublica , " It did n't matter the skill set . If they were under a year , they got cut . " ( A federal court later ruled that the firings were unlawful . ) <p> Many of the fired employees had focussed on curbing tax evasion by the country 's wealthiest people . The Yale Budget Lab estimated " very conservatively " that , if DOGE cut half the I.R.S. 's employees , as it had reportedly considered doing , the reduced workforce would cost the government four hundred billion dollars in lost tax revenue , far more than the savings in salaries . Werfel used the analogy of a backpack : if you are filling a backpack , you start with the thing that is most important to you , and then find room for the rest . " They did n't start by filling the backpack with efficiency , or collections , " Werfel said . " They filled it with job cuts . " <p> One evening , his wife wondered what had happened to the Little League player from the Christmas party . It turned out that he had been fired that day ; he 'd been given an hour to vacate the I.R.S. headquarters . His father had walked him out the door . <p> Every incoming Administration enjoys an unusual power in its first weeks , since the new Cabinet secretaries have not yet been appointed , and thus can not yet object to changes at their agencies . The White House 's pause on foreign aid raised a particular panic in the Kinshasa office of the United States Agency for International Development . The following weekend , rebels from the paramilitary group M23 took control of the Congolese city of Goma , part of an ongoing conflict that Congolese citizens had long blamed on Western nations , including the U.S. There were rumors of protests in the capital . Meanwhile , dozens of senior U.S.A.I.D . officials had been placed on administrative leave , scrambling the aid workers ' lines of communication to Washington and clouding the question of who was running the agency . <p> On the morning of Tuesday , January 28th , many U.S.A.I.D . workers had already sent their children to school on a bus and boarded a shuttle to the U.S. Embassy when they received messages telling them that the situation in the capital might no longer be safe . The vehicles turned around , bringing their passengers back home . According to a senior U.S.A.I.D . official in Kinshasa who filed an affidavit in federal court under the pseudonym Marcus Doe , one U.S.A.I.D . worker reported that protesters were setting fires outside his residence . A little later , he requested an evacuation -- his front gate had been breached . On social media , Marcus Doe could see videos of looting , and outside his own home he could hear protesters chanting . He and his wife called their kids inside and locked the doors . <p> Leaders at the Embassy decided to evacuate the staff , but the executive order pausing foreign assistance had made it harder for U.S.A.I.D . personnel to figure out how to fund their travel . Staffers were losing access to the agency 's internal payment system , and officials in the Congo were reluctant to authorize an expenditure , for fear that they would be accused of circumventing the executive order . Employees sought a waiver from U.S.A.I.D . ' s acting administrator , a career official named Jason Gray . It was approved , but only after Marcus Doe and others had started evacuating . " I began to feel an intense sense of panic that my government might fully abandon Americans working for U.S.A.I.D . in Kinshasa , " Marcus Doe recalled . He and his colleagues began co ? rdinating with contacts at other foreign-aid organizations . They made it across the river to Brazzaville by boat that night , with an allotment of one carry-on-size bag per person . <p> The new deputy administrator of U.S.A.I.D . in Washington was Pete Marocco , a former marine who , during the first Trump term , had left his job at U.S.A.I.D . after subordinates filed a thirteen-page memo accusing him of mismanagement and workplace hostility . In a closed-door meeting with lawmakers in March , the Washington Post reported , Marocco called U.S.A.I.D . a " money-laundering scheme " and said that he was examining whether foreign aid was even constitutional . " What we 're seeing right now is Pete 's revenge tour , " a former senior U.S.A.I.D . official recently told NPR . " This is personal . " <p> Musk shared Marocco 's dim view of foreign assistance . On January 28th , while U.S.A.I.D . staff were fleeing Kinshasa , the White House press secretary , Karoline Leavitt , told reporters that DOGE and the O.M.B. had discovered that the Biden Administration planned to purchase fifty million dollars ' worth of condoms for Gaza . Musk posted on X , " Tip of iceberg . " In recent years , U.S.A.I.D. , in its efforts to combat H.I.V. and AIDS around the world , has earmarked around seventeen million dollars annually for condoms , including allocations to the province of Gaza in Mozambique ; none of the money went to the Palestinian territories . " Some of the things I say will be incorrect and should be corrected , " Musk later said , during an appearance in the Oval Office . " Nobody 's going to bat a thousand . " <p> " Remember , it 's just a game . It does n't matter . In fact , nothing matters . We have to create our own meaning in life . For example , it would mean a lot to me if pitching started to matter to you . " <p> Cartoon by Avi Steinberg <p> Link copied <p> By early March , the State Department had announced the termination of more than eighty per cent of U.S.A.I.D . contracts and all but a few hundred of its ten thousand employees . Musk had posted on X that the agency , which was placed under the direct administration of Secretary of State Marco Rubio , was " a viper 's nest of radical-left marxists who hate America . " But it could be difficult to decipher which parts of its mission were progressive and which were conservative . On February 13th , Andrew Natsios , who had been George W. Bush 's U.S.A.I.D . administrator , testified about the cuts before the House Foreign Affairs Committee . Natsios had helped lead a faith-based foreign-aid organization , and as the agency 's administrator had increased grants to religious groups . In his testimony , he stressed that many faith-based organizations would close without U.S.A.I.D . funding . Natsios recalled , " I could see the expressions on the Republicans ' faces : ' Wait a second . No one told us that before . Are you telling me we 're going after our base with these cuts ? ' " He told me that the night before his testimony he 'd had dinner with executives from several of the largest Christian N.G.O.s . They were livid . " Ninety per cent of them are on the verge of insolvency , " he said . <p> The Trump Administration 's campaign against foreign assistance was widespread . On February 28th , Marocco , accompanied by DOGE officials , staged an " emergency board meeting " outside the Inter-American Foundation , which supports civil-society organizations in Latin America and the Caribbean ; Marocco announced that he was now the president and C.E.O . and moved to dissolve the organization . On March 5th , officials at the United States African Development Foundation , which invests in small businesses on the continent , managed to keep DOGE officials from coming inside ; the next day , the officials returned with U.S. marshals , entered the building , and changed the locks . The following week , DOGE officials arrived at the United States Institute of Peace , an independent nonprofit founded by Congress which works to prevent and resolve violent conflicts around the world . U.S.I.P. 's leadership believed that the institute represented a kind of boundary on the DOGE project -- an organization funded by , but not part of , the federal government . ( Although most of the institute 's board members are appointed by the President , it was established as an entity separate from the executive branch . ) When DOGE officials presented one of U.S.I.P. 's lawyers with a resolution firing the institute 's president , he rejected it as invalid . A few days later , DOGE returned with the police and took over U.S.I.P. 's building . ( A federal judge later ruled that DOGE 's actions were unlawful . ) <p> The role DOGE employees played in these closures was not especially technical . But they offered the White House a way to avoid potential bureaucratic obstacles . " The reality is that DOGE has become the instrument for carrying out the will of the President , " a senior foreign-aid official told me . " The game changer for this Administration has been its ability to use this instrument in frankly unlawful ways to carry out its will . " <p> Before DOGE , U.S.A.I.D . had played a leading role in collecting health data in poorer countries on child and maternal mortality , disease incidents , malnutrition , and access to clean water . Now the ability to gather that information -- " the early-warning system for the next pandemic , " as Natsios put it -- was gone . A network of aid companies had established a global supply chain for medications , antiretrovirals , and vaccines . It 's now unclear what will happen to the contracts for that system , which cost a few billion dollars a year , paid for by U.S.A.I.D . " There 's no way of doing this stuff without big contractors , because they 're worldwide contracts , " Natsios said . " No N.G.O . can fill that gap . " <p> DOGE officials were encountering a simple budgetary truth : radically paring back D.E.I . and humanitarian programs did n't save that much money . U.S.A.I.D . ' s spending in the most recent fiscal year had amounted to around forty billion dollars , less than one per cent of the over-all federal budget . But Natsios emphasized that , as a result of the cuts , the U.S. would be confronted with a more challenging world . In the next two years , he expected to see increased mass migration and instability because of famine . He was , he noted , an avowedly anti-Trump Republican . " But the responsibility for this belongs to Musk , " he said . " He is the one getting away with murder . " <p> By mid-February , small teams of DOGE officials were embedded at most federal agencies . ( The original executive order had called for teams of four : one team leader , one engineer , one H.R. specialist , and one attorney . ) They were often not a natural fit . A conservative policy analyst who spent time in the Department of Education 's headquarters this winter told me that the DOGE team was largely siloed off , interacting only with a couple of senior staffers , and that its members seemed particularly worried about the possibility of being doxed online . " Your standard political appointee came out of the Heritage Foundation , and has a family and works nine to five and then goes home , " the conservative analyst told me . " The DOGE guys are completely different . They are sleeping in some corner of the building , just looking at their computers . So they 're really seen almost as these exotic animals that ca n't be touched . " <p> Erie Meyer , the chief technologist of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , was at first cautiously optimistic about DOGE . A veteran of the U.S. Digital Service , she had long advocated for more efficiency in government . " I thought , At least the President will have technical people advising him , " Meyer told me . She was a political appointee from the Biden Administration ; she had no illusions about her own future . In January , she worked to identify projects that might interest the incoming Administration . Meyer told me , " I basically said , ' If you want them , here are some easy wins . ' " <p> On her last day at the C.F.P.B. , Meyer noticed a group of five men wandering around the executive suite ; one of them was trying to open the deputy director 's office , but it required a key card . She recognized another from the news -- a blond twenty-three-year-old former SpaceX intern named Luke Farritor . Meyer walked out and introduced herself . Were they looking for the printer , she asked , trying to think of an innocuous explanation for jiggling door handles in the executive offices of a government agency . No , a slightly older man , " schlumpy in that D.C. way , " as Meyer put it , told her . It turned out that he was Chris Young , the DOGE leader who 'd run Musk 's PAC . He and Meyer made small talk for a minute , and then the group left . <p> The C.F.P.B. , the brainchild of Senator Elizabeth Warren , was created by Congress in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis to protect Americans from financial manipulation . Its databases are filled with details of open investigations , including the names of whistle-blowers and their specific allegations . Meyer became increasingly worried about DOGE 's attempts to access the vast stores of personal and corporate data housed at the C.F.P.B. On January 31st , a longtime Treasury official named David Lebryk , who led the Bureau of the Fiscal Service , which sends out payments on behalf of government agencies , resigned after clashing with DOGE officials over their access to the payment system . Lebryk was well regarded across the government , and his resignation reverberated . As a former Social Security official put it , " When it 's , like , ' Oh , DOGE is trying to get in and Lebryk took a bullet to prevent it , ' that 's pretty concerning , right ? " <p> On February 7th , Musk posted on X , " CFPB RIP . " Later that day , Russell Vought , the director of the O.M.B. and a DOGE ally , sent an e-mail to C.F.P.B. staffers saying that he was assuming control of the agency . Vought , an original architect of Project 2025 , has been outspoken about his desire to defund government programs and fire career civil servants . " We want the bureaucrats to be traumatically affected , " he said in a private speech in 2023 . " When they wake up in the morning , we want them to not want to go to work because they are increasingly viewed as the villains . " <p> Vought ordered all C.F.P.B. employees to stop work ; eventually , more than a thousand of them were placed on administrative leave . One of the C.F.P.B. 's leaders e-mailed Mark Paoletta , the general counsel at the O.M.B. , asking if the agency could at least resume monitoring companies and " was just told no -- you have no authority right now . " The union representing most of the agency 's employees sued , winning a preliminary injunction to halt the dismissals . At that point , the C.F.P.B. entered a kind of zombie state , which an enforcement attorney described as " just turning on your computer to stare at it for eight hours with nothing to do . " <p> The Social Security Administration was under the direction of Michelle King , a career official who had recently been elevated to acting commissioner , when the DOGE representatives began to arrive , in early February . First came Michael Russo , a longtime tech executive who was appointed as the S.S.A . ' s chief information officer ; then came a coder named Akash Bobba , who had recently graduated from U.C.-Berkeley . According to a senior S.S.A . official , Bobba arrived " sort of spilling over with laptops and cellphones belonging to other agencies he was already working with . " King and her team grew wary when Russo asked for direct access to the main Social Security data files -- among them the Death Master File , on which the S.S.A . records each number holder who has died . The senior S.S.A . official said , " It just was never totally clear what Mike wanted access to the Death Master File for . " <p> Russo and Bobba were set up in an office , working with a small group of anti-fraud officials from the S.S.A. , but Bobba had not yet received the credentials necessary to access the S.S.A . ' s data files . Steve Davis , incensed , started reaching out to senior S.S.A . officials . " It was ' S.S.A has got to be the worst agency in the whole government , ' " the former S.S.A . official said . " ' There 's no reason that this has n't happened yet . Make it happen . ' " Russo demanded that Bobba be allowed to visit the S.S.A . ' s main data center . " There is absolutely nothing to see there -- a loading dock , some security , a bunch of computers , " the former S.S.A . official said . " But their view was they did n't trust any of the permanent staff at S.S.A. , so they needed Akash to get directly in . " <p> On February 11th , Musk joined Trump in the Oval Office and told reporters that his team had found " crazy things " happening within the Social Security system , including benefit recipients who were a hundred and fifty years old . Employees at the S.S.A . were mystified -- virtually no one who had been dead more than a month was receiving benefits , and certainly not a **26;2101;TOOLONG . S.S.A . officials , unable to reach Musk or Davis directly , tried to explain the situation to Russo , hoping that what they said would percolate up to Musk . " What was weird about that period was everything seemed to be coming through DOGE , rather than from the O.M.B. or from the White House , but it was almost impossible to get any information up the chain , " someone who temporarily led a government agency this winter told me . " They would never let us interface with them directly , since that was sacred . So it was like a really bad game of telephone . " <p> " Before we get in the car , I would like us to pause and give thanks for this miraculous parking spot , which has served us lo these many days due to an unforeseen suspension of alternate-side parking rules in observance of a holiday I was entirely unfamiliar with . " <p> Cartoon by Guy Richards Smit <p> Link copied <p> That Sunday , Musk posted a chart suggesting that there were three hundred and ninety-eight million active Social Security numbers . " Yes , there are FAR more ' eligible ' social security numbers than there are citizens in the USA , " he wrote . " This might be the biggest fraud in history . " S.S.A . officials were peeved . A week earlier , a few of them had patiently explained to Bobba that the chart contained not the number of people receiving Social Security benefits but , rather , the total number of people without death records . When officials asked Bobba about Musk 's post , he said , " I told him everything you told me . He just tweeted it anyway . " <p> Meanwhile , the relationship between King and the DOGE team had deteriorated . On February 14th , S.S.A . leadership placed Leland Dudek , a sixteen-year veteran of the S.S.A. , who had been working closely with DOGE , on administrative leave . Dudek posted a defiant message on LinkedIn and spent the weekend searching for a new job . Meanwhile , Davis called another S.S.A . official . " I have the agency 's complete executive roster , " the official recalled him saying . " I 'd like you to go through it with me and tell me your thoughts on who should be fired . " King resigned , and Dudek received an e-mail from an official at the Office of Personnel Management notifying him that his administrative leave was lifted and he was now in charge of the entire agency . <p> Dudek did not think that the S.S.A . should fight DOGE directly . " Elections have consequences , " he wrote in an e-mail to Social Security employees . In March , according to a recording obtained by ProPublica , he urged the staff to be patient with the " DOGE kids . " But he was also committed to keeping the agency functional . The DOGE team wanted to lay off the S.S.A . ' s probationary workers . In meetings that included representatives from the O.P.M. and the G.S.A. , and congressional staffers , Dudek went through the list of potential layoffs : How many were veterans or military spouses or worked in customer-service positions ? Surely , Dudek said , President Trump would not want to let those people go . The total number of cuts dwindled from what might have been fifteen hundred to less than two dozen . <p> Dudek wanted to keep the checks going out and limit the personnel losses . But , in doing so , he was forced to make compromises . In April , a DOGE official named Aram Moghaddassi , an ex-Twitter engineer who was embedded with both the S.S.A . and the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services , sent Dudek a request to take away the Social Security numbers of sixty-three hundred immigrants who had been allowed to enter the country during the Biden Administration . Doing so would make it impossible for those individuals to work legally , open bank accounts and lines of credit , or access government benefits . In a separate memo , the Secretary of Homeland Security , Kristi Noem , explained that the cancellations would " prevent suspected terrorists who are here illegally " from having " privileges reserved for those with lawful status . " Dudek determined that the simplest way to make the change would be to add all the names to the Death Master File , a move he soon authorized . The former Social Security official , who by then had left the agency , told me , " This was the one truly totalitarian thing the agency was asked to do . " <p> In the five months since DOGE officially began its operations , the scale of its projected savings has steadily dwindled . Musk revised his original promise of two trillion dollars to one trillion . In May , reporters from the Financial Times went through the " wall of receipts " that DOGE had been posting online , which now claims a hundred and eighty billion dollars in savings . They concluded that " only a sliver of that figure can be verified . " The Times , which has made a series of similar findings , reported , " The group posted a claim that confused billions with millions , triple-counted the savings from a single contract and claimed credit for canceling contracts that had ended under President George W. Bush . " <p> DOGE has reportedly cut more than two hundred and eighty thousand government jobs -- U.S.A.I.D . and the C.F.P.B. have been effectively eliminated -- and the fate of much of the rest of the bureaucracy is now in the hands of federal judges . But even if DOGE 's accounting is taken at face value , the effort has still slashed less than three per cent of the federal budget . Zachary Liscow , a chief economist at the O.M.B. during the Biden Administration , was n't especially surprised by the small numbers . The total cost , including pay and benefits , of all civilian personnel across the federal government , Liscow said , is just four per cent of the budget . The entire non-defense discretionary budget amounts to about nine hundred billion dollars -- one-seventh of the total . Liscow , who is now a professor at Yale Law School , said cutting government personnel is unlikely to lead to savings , since fewer people helping with oversight often allows the costs of contracts to balloon : " If , in the name of efficiency , they cut a bunch of I.R.S. employees who pay for themselves many times over , it makes you wonder what motivates them . " <p> The savings that DOGE uncovered were supposed to help pay for tax cuts -- one Trump operative even conceived of " DOGE checks , " through which money would be returned to the public . But the Republican budget in Congress would now add three trillion dollars to the national debt . " It 's a lost opportunity , " Howard , the lawyer and conservative regulatory specialist , told me . DOGE " was not focussed on any vision of how to make government more efficient -- just on cutting . They did n't have any vision of duplication , or of how to create more effective operating systems . You can fire the paper pushers , but if the law says you 've got to push this paper , and there 's no one left to push it , that 's a formula for paralysis . " <p> Veronique de Rugy , a leading libertarian thinker at the Mercatus Center and one of the thirty-four named authors of Project 2025 , also initially supported DOGE . But she eventually grew disillusioned with what she regarded as its almost singular focus on culture-war issues . In March , she wrote , in an essay for Reason , " For all the talk about cutting government waste and fraud , the DOGE-Trump team seems mostly animated by rooting out leftist culture politics and its practitioners in Washington . " She was especially concerned by the ways in which DOGE seemed to be expanding , rather than curtailing , the powers of the executive . " Being a libertarian right now , " she told me , " is like being punched in the face with your own ideas by a drunk teen-ager . " <p> Even before Musk and Trump 's blowup , some of DOGE 's main lieutenants , including Davis , were quietly exiting . Their departures offered a reminder of the essential imbalance between the bureaucrats ' enduring stake in the structure of government and the fleeting and contingent interest of Musk 's team . After Musk 's departure , Vought , at the O.M.B. , became the face of what remained of DOGE , which made a certain amount of sense : without the new-new gloss of tech , the project would revert to a more mundane , institutional form . <p> What , then , was DOGE ? Part of its pitch was that it would infuse government with talent , replacing diversity hires and ineffective workers with more adept ones from the startup industry . The young embeds who moved throughout the government , whom Musk raved about during his Fox News appearances , were an embodiment of this vision . But , in the end , the quickest way for DOGE to cut the government had nothing to do with technology . Lavingia told me that , during his two months at the V.A. , he came to the conclusion that there were not actually so many people sitting around doing nothing . " To be honest , it is often worse in the tech industry , where you have venture money and low interest rates , " he said . " It can be pretty inefficient . " <p> I asked the former S.S.A . official , who had worked closely with several DOGE coders , what he thought of their abilities . " In general , they were all pretty talented for their level of experience , " he said . " If we 'd taken them on as junior hires , they would probably have progressed pretty quickly in a hierarchical organization . " But , by design , they existed outside the civil service , with little guidance on what to do and why . " They all seemed pretty desperate for Elon to say that they were doing good , " the former official said . " There was a lot of ' What does E. want ? ' ' Did you see what E. said ? ' " The former official compared the situation to the science-fiction novel " Ender 's Game , " by Orson Scott Card , in which a team of children who are invited by the military to play an elaborate video game are unknowingly operating actual weapons of war . <p> A conservative influencer familiar with DOGE made a similar point about Musk , saying that he 'd attempted to transfer the partisanship of social media to the weights and measures of the federal government . " It 's true of a lot of people , and it 's definitely true of Elon , that you live on X and your psychology is merged with the cesspool of the modern internet , " the influencer told me . " Going in and deregulating things and cutting costs might have achieved the policy result . But he 's playing a different sport -- getting people to hit him really hard and then becoming a savior to everyone who hates those people . " He added , " It 's not that the vitriol from the other side is an unfortunate side effect -- it 's actually the point . " <p> When I spoke with Lavingia , he reflected on what DOGE had actually achieved . It had been blamed for mass firings and contract cancellations across the government , but , in reality , it had played the role of technological adviser to politically appointed agency heads . " There 's a lot of power that comes in that first hundred days , " Lavingia said . " But DOGE and Elon really mostly had soft power -- they did n't have hard power . " The hard power had come from Trump ; the soft power depended on Musk 's influence over him . " The premise of DOGE requires Elon and Trump to really be aligned , " Lavingia said . " And it now seems that was kind of for show . " ? <p> Published in the print edition of the June 23 , 2025 , issue , with the headline " Move Fast and Break Things . "
