<h> ' It is a right that was violently taken away ' : The Jews who want to be German again <h> Jews whose family members fled the Nazis in the 1930s have reclaimed their German citizenship <p> Rabbi Walter Rothschild , from Bradford in the UK , claimed German citizenship after Brexit . The Nazis had stripped his grandparents of their German citizenship after they fled the country in 1939 . Photograph : Adam Berry <p> It was n't until Brexit happened that Bradford , West Yorkshire-born Rabbi Walter Rothschild reclaimed the German citizenship taken by the Nazis from his family in 1939 . When then British prime minister Theresa May sent the final departure letter to Brussels , Rothschild was finally angry enough to get active . <p> " Brexit gave me a feeling that my homeland had been stolen from me , " says Rothschild , who came to Germany in the late 1990s with his Dutch wife and three children . <p> Rather than stay angry , the 70-year-old dove into the family archive for papers that traced his family lineage back to May 1939 , when his grandparents passed a train station on the German border on their way to Basle in Switzerland . <p> Rothschild is named after his grandfather , Walter , a respected county court judge in Hannover . He was dismissed , simply for being Jewish , and in 1938 was imprisoned in the Dachau concentration camp near Munich . His grandmother , Charlotte , got her husband out and they crossed the border into Basle in May 1939 . Through friends they sent their son , Walter 's father , to boarding school in the UK in August 1939 -- just before war broke out . <p> The moment they left their homeland , Nazi Germany stripped the Rothschilds of their citizenship and recorded the fact in the Nazi state gazette . <p> In his Berlin sittingroom , Rothschild produces photocopied pages of the list containing his grandparents ' names . They were among an estimated 90,000 people , including German Jews and political opponents , the Nazi regime named and shamed as stateless . <p> It was postwar ( West ) Germany 's Basic Law that offered a way back in Article 116 ( 2 ) : " Former German citizens who , between January 30th , 1933 and May 8th , 1945 , were deprived of their citizenship on political , racial or religious grounds and their descendants shall , on application , have their citizenship restored . " <p> Rabbi Walter Rothschild : ' There was always a feeling we were a German family in Bradford . ' Photograph : Adam Berry <p> Rothschild 's grandfather never returned to Germany nor did he reclaim his citizenship . Because of the beatings he received in Dachau his health declined rapidly in Switzerland . In 1950 , after battling the German state to receive his pension , he received a letter offering him his old job back in the Hannover court . A short time later he died , still stateless . <p> If you do n't have a passport , you 're nobody . As a Jew you want the ability to be mobile as you never know when the next stupidity is going to come <p> -- Walter Rothschild <p> Four years later , in 1954 , Walter Rothschild was born in Bradford -- his father stayed on in the UK after school . Growing up , Rothschild says he always felt " on the fringe " . " There was always a feeling we were a German family in Bradford and with a name like Walter Rothschild you were not a John Smith or Terry Robinson , " he says . <p> A job offer in Berlin saw him move to the city in 1998 . It was an emotional return , he says , but he had never thought of a German passport until Brexit narrowed his work and travel options across the Continent . <p> His two younger sisters also applied and the process was completed in 2017 after about nine months . Walter feels ambivalent about living in Germany today as a German citizenship . He is " grateful for this particular window of history and the nice people making the naturalisation laws " . <p> Yet he feels the German response to the October 7th Hamas massacre in Israel was not wholehearted enough -- a feeling many of his Jewish friends share , he says . <p> From his jacket pocket he produces his slightly tatty , well-used German passport . A few months back , he recalls a talk with other rabbis about adding modern symbols to the Seder feast table . Alongside the flat bread , salt water and bitter herbs , Rothschild suggested they should add a passport , a quiet tribute to his grandparents and today 's uncertain times . <p> " If you do n't have a passport , you 're nobody , no one will let you anywhere , " he says . " As a Jew you want the ability to be mobile as you never know when the next stupidity is going to come . " <h> Elana <p> Elana , a 42-year-old medical doctor from Maryland in the United States , who did not wish to give her full name , grew up hearing about Fritz , her German grandfather , and his pre-war life in Bielefeld , Lower Saxony . <p> " When my mom spoke of him she would imitate him with German accent speaking to her in Yiddish and using German words , " says Elana . " He stayed as long as he could but left rather late , right after Kristallnacht . " <p> Fritz , his sister Annaliese and brother Ernest were among the tens of thousands of people who fled Germany after the 1938 pogrom against Jewish homes , business and places of worship . Millions more were unable or unwilling to get out -- until it was too late . <p> It is a right that was violently taken away and deserves to be re-established in these next generations <p> -- Elana <p> Growing up , Elana says she was always aware of the injustice done to her family , in particular how their citizenship was taken away . It was Elana 's mother who had the idea of applying for restoration of citizenship around 16 years ago . <p> " She was interested in having German citizenship , as was my grand-uncle Ernest , who felt it had been stolen from him , " Elana says . <p> Both her mother and Ernest died before their wish was realised . But two years ago Elana applied , submitted considerable paperwork , and on a rainy day last June drove to the German embassy in Washington DC . There , two young men presented her with her naturalisation certificate and spoke some words about the injustice inflicted on her grandfather and his siblings . <p> " They were lovely , saying they ca n't right the wrongs of the past and that this is a horrible history , but this is one of the things we can do , " she recalls . <p> In the unremarkable Washington embassy room , Elana found her mind drifting back to her family and their escape . Though they were lucky to survive , unlike millions of others , but the violent break with Germany thwarted their life plans forever . <p> Fritz , who died in the 1970s , ran a linoleum store . Ernest , who she knew better , never completed his medical training and ran a watch business instead . <p> Among Elana 's three siblings , one other sister has also secured citizenship . Others in her family feel Germany can never right past wrongs . <p> " I do n't feel this way , " says Elana . " It is a right that was violently taken away and deserves to be re-established in these next generations . " <p> After the re-election of US president Donald Trump , and in a world of rising authoritarian leaders , does she view her German citizenship any differently now ? Elana , who was already a dual US-Israel citizen , still puts her German citizenship in the " nice to have " category . It allows her children to live , work or study on this side of the Atlantic should they so wish in the future . <p> " My husband is very fond of being American and his family is all here , so it would take something of huge magnitude to extract him , " she says . <p> She says the aftershocks of the October 7th , 2023 attacks , in particular anti-Israel demonstrations on US college campuses , make her happy to have another option . <p> " With a recent family history of the Holocaust and the growing anti-Semitism , " she says , " I feel it is never a bad idea to have another passport for a Jewish person these days . " <p> Adam Berry : ' There has been a sweeping generalisation and monolithisation in Germany of how " we " Jews are supposed to feel about Israel . ' Photograph : Gil Holten <h> Adam Berry <p> Adam Berry , a photographer and television producer from South Carolina , has lived in Berlin for 20 years and secured his citizenship on the basis of residency rather than the constitutional provision in Article 116 . <p> His family is of **29;817;TOOLONG descent and his great-grandfather was a subject of Tsar Nicolas II before he left for America some time before 1918 . <p> " His brother , a local religious leader in Alytus , stayed behind , " says , " and was either shot in a forest or burned alive in a locked synagogue with his family and others . " <p> Berry says he did n't have a single motivation for applying for German citizenship . In September he secured his " Certification of Krautdom " , as he jokingly calls it , mostly for pragmatic and practical reasons : ease of travel and the right to work in 26 other European countries . <p> What sealed the deal for him was a German citizenship law change earlier this year allowing him retain , rather than relinquish , his US citizenship . Another motivation was a wish for political representation to match his German taxation . <p> Berry does n't remember talk of the Holocaust or the Nazis when he grew up . After 20 years away from the US , he feels too far away for Trump 's second term to have been a motivating factor . <p> Like Rothschild , being a Jewish German citizen has been chastening experience since October 7th last year -- but for very different reasons . What preoccupies Berry is what he sees as a problematic and emotional debate in Germany over Israel 's military response in Gaza . <p> Historic feelings of obligation to Germany 's murdered Jewish population , he says , has left many of his fellow Germans less sensitive now to diverse views on Israel among " its living Jewish population " . <p> " There has been a sweeping generalisation and monolithisation here of how ' we ' Jews are supposed to feel about Israel , " he says . <p> For him , Germans criticising him and other Jewish friends ' critical stance on Israeli policies in Gaza and Lebanon constitutes " its own form of anti-Semitism " . <p> " The pendulum has swung so far that it 's slammed the clock in the face and knocked all sense out of it , " he says . " That said , like any country , Germany is imperfect . " <h> Applications for German citizenship on the rise <p> German authorities point out that Article 116(2) is open to all whose ancestors were stripped of their German citizenship , not just Jewish people . Others targeted include communists , union and religious leaders . Since 2014 , the interior ministry says some 41,449 people living abroad have been awarded citizenship under Article 116 ( 2 ) - and it does not collate how many involved Jewish people . Recent shocks - from Brexit to October 7th - have triggered an apparent spike among people seeking naturalisation under the special provisions . <p> Last year the number of applications from Israeli citizens under article 116 nearly doubled to 9,100 , while the 14,000 applications from the rest of the world marked a rise of 23 per cent . Another rise in applications came three years ago when German updated its provisions to allow such article 116 applications via the maternal line . <p> Before German ambassador David Gill moved to Dublin , he was consul general in New York . One of the privileges of his job , he says , was to meet people attending naturalisation ceremonies three times a year . The high Jewish population of New York , he suggests , was a factor in enough applications for ceremonies up to three times a year . At his last ceremony in June around 80 people were naturalised , a step he said was never transactional or bureaucratic act for them . <p> " Behind every person is a family story and in previous years we often had three generations of people being naturalised , " he says . " The oldest person I had was a woman aged 94 who came from Hamburg , via the UK , to the US . She told me that , despite everything , she had always remained German . " <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
