<h> Mourning or Rejoicing ? <h> How people are reacting to Donald Trump 's return to the White House <p> The United States ' 2024 Presidential election was undoubtedly widely anticipated by Americans . Would the country usher in its first-ever female president , or would a convicted felon reclaim the White House ? The election pivoted around policies and legislation that shape core values for Americans , including gun control , inflation , reproductive rights , immigration and the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> On the morning of November 6th , the poll results filtered in . Donald Trump achieved a decisive victory in the seven swing states , amassing 312 electoral college votes and capturing the popular vote with just over 50% . Later that day , Kamala Harris officially conceded defeat in a speech delivered at Howard University , her alma mater . <p> Speaking with Trinity News , Audrey de Groot , a first-year student from Los Angeles , California , expressed her disappointment with the election outcome . " After Biden dropped out of the race in mid-July , I was confident Harris would win the ticket . " As someone deeply passionate about legislation the Trump administration is strongly opposed to , de Groot identified key issues she valued in Harris 's campaign such as abortion rights , humane immigration laws and combating climate change . <p> " ' I am scared . Not just for myself , but for others ' " <p> " I could n't understand how a convicted felon , who had been impeached multiple times and exposed as a morally bankrupt , fraudulent politician with objectively harmful and oppressive policies , could win , " de Groot remarked . " I am scared not just for myself , but for others . Especially for women , people of colour , immigrants , and future generations " she voiced . <p> Another first-year student , who wishes to remain anonymous , also participated in their first-ever presidential election . An avid Trump supporter since 2015 , the student was proud to cast their vote for Trump and elated by the outcome . " I 'm a big fan of Donald Trump . I think he 's a remarkable individual ; he has an amazing ability to keep going no matter what . He never quits ; he 's a winner . " <p> They added , " The main reason I voted Republican is that I want the national environment to be as friendly to innovation as possible . When Donald Trump brought Elon Musk into his campaign , I was thrilled . Elon is probably the most impressive individual of this century , and I 'm confident he 'll do a tremendous job gutting the administrative state . " <p> " ' I am incredibly optimistic for the next four years ; it 's going to be a boom-time for America ... ' ' ' <p> When asked about Trump 's opponent , they added , " In regards to Kamala Harris , I think she is totally illegitimate . She did n't win the primary , and she was a diversity hire as VP . Her resume is beyond underwhelming . Simply put , Kamala Harris is of middling intelligence at best . " They added , " I am incredibly optimistic for the next four years ; it 's going to be a boom-time for America . We 're going to build , build , build . " <p> When asked why over 74 million Americans cast their ballots for Trump , the anonymous student expressed the following sentiments : " One thing has been made abundantly clear by Donald Trump 's decisive victory : America rejects the corrosive wokism that has emanated from elite liberal institutions for the past decade . Americans are tired of identity politics ; nobody wants to hear that George Washington was an evil racist , or that illegal aliens should be afforded free sex-change surgery . " <p> Another first-time voter interviewee , who also wished to be kept anonymous , shared their views , stating : " I voted for Harris . I was confident that she would be a great president if elected , but it would be incredibly naive of me to be confident in her victory . Nevertheless , I did have hope that the American people could n't possibly be so backward-minded and ignorant as to not even hear her a chance . " <p> When asked why they chose Harris , the reasoning was straightforward : " Unfortunately , this election was primarily about keeping Trump and his policies out of office . It shifted focus away from how Kamala 's policies would benefit the nation and instead emphasised how much Trump 's policies on issues like abortion , healthcare , and guns would harm the American people and future generations . " <p> For this student , " Trump has allowed people to revert in thinking , building up anger , hate , and fear towards change and a progressive ideology . And who better to represent the harbinger of this amorphous nightmare of a liberal future in the eyes of ignorant people than a smart , ambitious multi-racial woman ? " <p> Dr. Noah Buckley , an assistant professor of Political Science at Trinity , spoke to Trinity News about the aftermath of the election . A registered Democrat , Dr. Buckley voted for Kamala Harris , having been impressed by her campaign and having felt confident in her abilities . " I disagree with most , if not all , of Trump 's policy stances . I think he represents a continued danger to some aspects of the American political system ; he is not good at governing , and he only works to benefit himself , rather than the country or his constituents . " Buckley asserted . He expressed frustration and disappointment with the election results and what the next four years may entail . Discussing reasons behind America 's votes , he commented ; " my tentative assessment is that there is frustration about high prices , dislike of the Biden administration 's handling of those bread-and-butter economic issues , and a general sense that the Democratic Party is neglecting these basic issues while focusing too much on things that only matter to their educated , ' out of touch ' base . " <p> " Buckley noted that the Supreme Court is likely to lean conservative for much of Generation Z 's lifetime " <p> With the Republican Party now in control of the White House and the Senate , Buckley noted that the Supreme Court is likely to lean conservative for much of Generation Z 's lifetime . " This is certainly not good either . This will only aid in Trump 's efforts to make the scary changes he has in mind a reality . It 's particularly concerning when we think about the future of the Supreme Court . If Alito and/or Thomas take the opportunity to retire , Trump could end up having appointed a majority of the Court -- five justices out of nine -- and this 6-3 ( or 7-2 , if Sotomayor has to retire ) majority will potentially be cemented for decades . " <p> Professor Gillian Frank , from the History Department at College , also shared his perspective on the U.S. election with Trinity News , drawing on his expertise in U.S. culture and politics . A week before the election , he visited Philadelphia , Pennsylvania , where he observed Republican political advertising and high levels of polarisation in the media . " It was unprecedented . The sheer level of hatred directed towards immigrants and transgender individuals was unbridled . This advertising utilised pure scare tactics to suggest that transgender people posed a threat to people 's children . The targeting and demonisation of minority groups as a means of fear-mongering was alarming , " he remarked , shedding light on the intense political polarisation apparent in America . <p> Both campaigns actively targeted younger demographics and first-time voters through platforms like Instagram , X and especially TikTok . TikTok emerged as a crucial platform for campaigning on both sides , with the social media teams of both Harris and Trump tapping into popular trends for their campaigns . This novel approach made interacting with US politics unavoidable , weaving political messages into people 's everyday social media experience . For many " Gen Z " voters , political content appeared directly on their TikTok " For You " pages , making it part of their daily media consumption and encouraging them to think about key issues under a politicised lens . <p> The aftermath of the election has stirred a range of reactions among Americans ; from celebration to fear , anxiety and anger . These emotions will continue to evolve as the Trump administration begins four more years in office . Trump 's victory confronts Americans with a new political reality , which will likely include significant changes on issues like abortion rights , gun control , healthcare , and more . How Americans will respond to the end of the Biden administration and the dominance of the Republican Party remains to be seen . As a nation , America must wait and see how the incumbent Trump administration shapes the future and the extent to which its policies will alter the landscape of American life . <h> Most Popular <p> The struggles and contributions of Marie CurieKatarzyna Siewierska writes about Marie Curie as a tribute to all female scientists , who made contributions to science , but also showed strength of character and determination in overcoming the challenges of being a female scientist , inspiring generations of female scientists <h> Privacy Overview <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website . Out of these , the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website . We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website . These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent . You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies . But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience . <p> Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly . This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website . These cookies do not store any personal information .
