<p> " My heart into my mouth . I love your majesty . According to my bond ; no more nor less . " - Cordelia to her father , King Lear , in Shakepeare 's King Lear <p> When we were children , our father would ritually stop at a monument in the centre of Galway city and regale us with the story James Lynch FitzStephen , mayor of Galway in 1493 . It 's less of a monument , really , and more the derelict ruins of a medieval building . <p> A window , with a plaque and an ominous skull and crossbones underneath . Long before the historical walking tours became popular in the city , he would defiantly observe the same storytelling routine despite our groans of impatient disapproval . <p> It was at this window the mayor hung his son , Walter , who had confessed to the murder of a Spanish merchant sailor by the name of Gomez . <p> The pair had duelled , apparently over Gomez 's wife who Walter had developed a fondness for . Appalled by his son 's act of execution , Lynch sentenced him to be hanged , but struggled to find anyone willing to carry out the hanging . <p> And so , in order to appropriately uphold justice regardless of familial bond , James Lynch FitzStephen hanged his own son from the window of his Lombard Street home . <p> Great story , which - despite the efforts of historians - has never been comprehensively confirmed nor denied , not that that ever bothered my father . So too the etymology of the word " lynching , " which I long believed to have its orgins in Galway ( though that ranks as a rather dubious honour ) . <p> Regardless of its veracity , the effect on us as children was profound . Though his retelling was always humorous and flamboyant , my dad 's message was clear : Stay away from Spanish merchants ' wives . Or else . <p> President Joe Biden accompanied by his son Hunter Biden and his grandson Beau leave a book store as they walk in downtown Nantucket Mass. , Friday , Nov. 29 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana ) <p> Late Sunday evening President Joe Biden announced he would be exercising the privilege of his office to pardon his son , Hunter , who was recently convicted in two separate federal cases - one for gun possession , the other for tax evasion . <p> The pardons mean that , despite Biden junior facing up to several years in federal prison , with one forgiving stroke of his father 's geriatric hand , Hunter Biden 's record is wiped clean . <p> It stands to be one of the last significant acts of presidency that has spiralled into a moral abyss during the last 18 months . <p> That a man who has shown so little empathy - nay - flagrant disregard for millions of Palestinians whose lives he 's played such a violent role in destroying , could be so suddenly overcome by emotional weakness to grant clemency to his own son , points to a man so out of touch and uncaring of his legacy , he just does n't care . <p> You could forgive any father - burdened with the power to pardon his delinquent son - for being conflicted by the responsibility . But , Joe Biden is not just any father , he is the President of the United States . <p> And Hunter Biden is not just any son , he is a 54-year-old man , not a teenager just starting out in life . <p> The trauma of Biden 's personal life is well known and heartbreaking by any standard - losing his first wife , Neilia , and year-old daughter Naomi in a tragic car accident and , much later , the death of his son Beau from brain cancer . <p> Compounding those losses , undoubtedly , is Hunter Biden 's battles with addiction . But , while nobody would wish any one of those challenges on a foe , surely a prerequisite to rule is the ability to separate church and state - as it were - and never put your family before country ? <p> According to recent studies done by the NGO Innocence Project , over 20,000 falsely convicted people are currently incarcerated in US prisons , and the number is steadily rising . The vast majority of those wrongfully convicted are African American males . <p> Data from the National Registry of Exonerations reveals that a total of 238 wrongfully convicted people were exonerated in the US in 2022 alone -- that 's more than five people every week . <p> Tellingly , these innocent individuals spent an average of 12 years behind bars before being exonerated . Such statistics put Biden 's nepotistic clemency into perspective . <p> So too the fact that - despite President Obama promising to shut the facility - Guant ? namo Bay remains open today , housing 30 ' prisoners , ' most without charge or trial . <p> A visit to the facility late last year by a UN Special Rapporteur confirmed that Guant ? namo Bay 's legacy of torture and degradation is ongoing , even if the " enhanced interrogation " torture methods technically ended years ago . <p> President Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden leave Holy Spirit Catholic Church in Johns Island , S.C. , after attending a Mass , Saturday , Aug. 13 , 2022 . Biden is in Kiawah Island with his family on vacation . ( AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta ) <p> Which brings us to the largest open air prison in the world , and another that Biden has all but held the keys to : Gaza . <p> There is little point in quoting the number of dead there , because any official figures are wildly underestimated and educated guesses put the number in or around 100,00 people . <p> Suffice to say , it is no longer adequate to rank Biden as just a material supporter of Israel and Netanyahu , but a direct accomplice . A co-conspirator , unlikely to ever answer for the myriad of war crimes he has enabled . <p> To that end , the president 's pardoning of his middle-aged son is hardly surprising , and quite unimportant . All it does is confirm what we already knew ; that these people in positions of extreme power are only ever in it for themselves . <p> If it happened in the Global South , America would decry it as an example of an uncivilised people , but their mask of mores slipped long ago . The fa ? ade of empire crumbling like the arguments of a hypocritical fool drunk on a high stool . Just with a loaded gun on his hip .
