<h> The Irish Times view on events in Syria : pressure is building on Assad 's regime <h> The president must face up to the reality that diplomatic engagement and sharing power with the rebels represent his best hope of survival <p> Anti-regime fighters at the airport in the northern Syrian city of Aleppo on Monday . ( Photo by Omar Haj Kadour / AFP ) <p> Mon Dec 02 2024 - 20:35 <p> Aleppo , Syria 's second city , fell quickly to a surprise rebel attack that , in just four days , has drastically changed the largely frozen front lines of the 13 year-long Syrian conflict . In doing the rebels have exposed the vulnerability of an impoverished regime that was until now largely dependent on foreign allies who are currently distracted and severely tested by other conflicts . <p> By the weekend , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a former al-Qaeda affiliate backed by Turkish rebel groups , was in control of a broad stretch of land across the provinces of Hama , Idlib and Aleppo , in the west and northwest of Syria . The area , also home to Kurdish forces , is refuge to up to five million people , more than half of them displaced from their homes elsewhere in Syria . <p> The Syrian civil war started 13 years ago when peaceful anti-government protests were met with brutal crackdowns , escalating into a conflict between forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad and rebels . Assad tipped the balance with the assistance of troops from Russia , Iran and the Lebanese Hizbullah , to the point where an uneasy stalemate has prevailed over the last four years . <p> But with Iran and Hizbullah driven on to the back foot by Israel 's war on Gaza and Lebanon , and Russia preoccupied by the war in Ukraine , HTS has seized the moment of weakness , seeing it as an opportunity to strike back . <p> Assad is scrambling to reinforce his defences but is ill- equipped to do so . Syria 's economy has been teetering on the brink of collapse for years , hampered by unpaid debts to the regime 's foreign patrons , western sanctions , and the ruling family 's endemic corruption . Assad 's depleted and under-equipped army has had to rely on forcibly conscripted young men . Reports say that when faced with a rapidly advancing and organised rebel offensive last week , many chose to flee rather than fight . Assad will not retake Aleppo simply by bombing it . <p> Internally , there are also reports that the once-dependable loyalty of Assad 's own Alawite minority community is being tested . And although Turkey , home to some three million refugees from Syria 's civil war , has been a supporter of HTS , it has been showing signs of wanting to reconcile with Damascus , to little avail . Syria 's continued bombardment of rebel-held areas has been driving refugees to flee towards Turkey , creating more problems for a frustrated Ankara . <p> Unable to rely on its international backers , economically bankrupt , and domestically unpopular , the Syrian regime can only stagger on for so long . Although he may yet be able to hold further rebel advances at bay , Assad must face up to the reality that diplomatic engagement and the long-delayed prospect of sharing power with the rebels represent his best hope of survival .
