<p> Residents carried a body wrapped in carpets out of the charred wreckage of the makeshift shelters in Mawasi , near the beach west of Khan Younis in southern Gaza , where tens of thousands of people have sheltered for months . Israel calls the area a humanitarian zone and has long told people to go there for their safety . <p> Mourners said the latest attacks demonstrated that a new declaration from international human rights group Amnesty International that Israel was guilty of genocide in Gaza -- strongly rejected by Israel -- had come too late . <p> Gaza medics said the 20 confirmed dead in the Israeli strike there included women and children . Israel said the strike targeted senior Hamas operatives , whom it did not identify . <p> The strike set several large tents ablaze , and the fire was worsened by the explosion of cooking gas canisters and burning furniture of the displaced people . On Thursday the area was strewn with charred clothing , mattresses and other belongings among the twisted frames of burnt-out shelters . <p> " We do n't see anyone from the whole world standing by us or helping us in this situation . Let them stop this crazy war that 's against us . Let them stop the war , " said Abu Kamal Al-Assar , a witness at the site . <p> Other Israeli strikes reported on Thursday hit Gaza City , where medics said an attack destroyed a house where an extended family had taken shelter and damaged two nearby homes , killed at least three people . <p> In Rafah , near the borders with Egypt , an Israeli strike killed three Palestinians on Thursday , medics said . Three others were killed in a separate air strike in Shejaia , in eastern Gaza City , they added . <p> Israel launched its assault on Gaza after Hamas-led fighters attacked Israeli communities on October 7th , 2023 , killing 1,200 people and capturing more than 250 hostages , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Since then , it has laid much of the Gaza Strip to waste , forcing nearly the entire 2.3 million population from their homes . Authorities in the Hamas-run territory say more than 44,500 Gazans have been killed , with thousands of others feared dead under the rubble . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
