<h> Families fleeing war will be split this Christmas -- thanks to the UK 's ' cruel ' immigration system <p> Politicians point fingers at each other over damning migration statistics but none spared a thought for families spending Christmas apart due to conflicts in Gaza , Sudan and Afghanistan , writes RAMFEL 's Nick Beales <p> by : Nick Beales <p> 3 Dec 2024 <p> Migration statistics triggered the usual political rows but the reality is that refugees fleeing conflicts are being separated by the controversial UK immigration system . Image : Al9sdare Hickson / Flickr <p> Share <p> Christmas is fast approaching . This is a time when families should be together . Sadly , at the Refugee and Migrant Forum of Essex and London ( RAMFEL ) , every day we see families separated by conflict and desperately seeking to reunite in the UK . <p> The UK 's family reunion system is though designed not to achieve reunification but ensure continued separation . While politicians obsess over numbers , they rarely if ever actually consider the people behind the raw statistics and the harm that is caused by cruel , oppressive and usually counter-productive immigration policies . This is never clearer than with refugees desperately seeking to bring their loved ones here . <p> Last week , the government published the latest migration statistics . News that the original 2023 figures underestimated the number of arrivals grabbed the headlines and predictably saw senior politicians rushing to blame their adversaries . Home secretary Yvette Cooper said that it was the Tories ' fault that numbers were so high ; former home secretaries James Cleverly and Suella Braverman claimed that a reduction in the 2024 figures showed punitive measures they introduced were working . No politician to our knowledge asked the question : why are these numbers a bad thing ? <p> Scratching beneath the surface of these numbers also shows just how restrictive many parts of the UK 's immigration system are , despite claims to the contrary by almost every politician . 2024 's figures show reduced numbers : 728,000 new arrivals . The government granted just 19,154 family reunion visas though , meaning less than 3% of the arrivals were refugee families reuniting . <p> For refugees seeking to rebuild their lives , reuniting with loved ones -- especially those who remain in grave danger in conflict zones -- is usually far and away their priority upon reaching sanctuary . That less than 20,000 people were able to secure visas under existing family reunion rules , despite 52,739 people being granted refugee status in the same period shows just how labyrinth and unfit for purpose the current rules are . <p> As a legal action charity specialising in complex family reunion work , we see these problems first-hand . For those in conflict zones , even making a family reunion application is essentially impossible , as you must attend a visa centre to enrol your biometrics before the government will even look at your case . In conflict zones such as Gaza , Sudan and Afghanistan there is no visa centre , meaning people in these countries can not even make an application to come to the UK . When we say safe routes do n't exist , we mean it . <p> If by some minor miracle people in these countries do manage to apply for family reunion , they face lengthy waiting times and encounter a government pre-disposed to try and refuse their claims . Our recent report , Safe Routes to Nowhere , evidenced how in some visa routes open to refugee family members the government refuses 87% of applications . These refusal decisions are frequently overturned on appeal . However , this whole process takes around two years and for those living in extreme danger , they simply can not sit tight waiting for the wheels of bureaucracy to turn . <p> For people in places such as Sudan , they face no other option than taking flight and seeking safety by irregular means . It 's no coincidence that Afghans account for 15% of boat arrivals , with Iranians , Syrians and Eritreans also in the top five . Tellingly , no Ukrainians -- another country beset by war -- have crossed the Channel because the government rightly opened up safe routes for them and greatly reduced bureaucracy and processing times . <p> With all these challenges , refugees require expert legal advice to even attempt applying to reunite with their loved ones . Legal aid cuts have though meant many simply can not access such advice , meaning the work of charities such as ours is critical . <p> Our family reunion casework would though be impossible without the generous donations of our supporters . This is why RAMFEL have signed up to the Big Give 's Christmas Challenge . Every ? 1 donated to RAMFEL through the Big Give from 3rd -- 10th of December will be doubled , and all money raised will help more refugee families reunite in 2025 . <p> Confidence in the Labour government opening up more safe routes for those in conflict zones is already fast fading . Ultimately , if they wish to avoid more tragedies unfolding in the Channel , the government must urgently expand family reunion by adopting a more flexible definition of " family member " , better suited to conflict settings , and reduce bureaucracy and application processing times . However , until that happens we will continue working tirelessly to reunite separated families .
