<h> " Tolerance and ambition " : Red Sea film programmers reveal goals for the festival <p> " Shocked ? No , they will be intrigued ! " These are the hopes of Antoine Khalife , director of Arab programmes and film classics at this year 's Red Sea International Film Festival ( RSIFF ) . <p> Now heading into their fourth edition programming the festival , Khalife and director of international programming Kaleem Afttab are able to implement lessons from the first three years into the 2024 edition . <p> The festival employs an independent management consultancy to garner feedback about the event from industry attendees . " It was incredibly positive after last year , especially about the programme , " says Aftab . " We look at what we can improve as we go from being a baby into a toddler into a young child . " <p> This year 's RSIFF is screening 121 films -- a fraction down on last year 's 125 , due partly to the move to a permanent festival site in Jeddah 's historic Al-Balad district . The programme was locked by early November , with the four weeks until the festival opening on December 5 spent " scheduling and working out who is going to present what " , says Khalife . Plus one other key activity : outreach to the local community . " We go to the university to tell the students , ' This is for you , ' " he says . " This is a public festival , it 's not only for professionals . " <p> This year 's event kicks off with the world premiere of Karim Elshenawy 's The Tale Of Daye 's Family , about a teenage albino boy who dreams of being a singer . The title is the second feature from Egyptian filmmaker Elshenawy , six years after his murder mystery debut Gunshot , and was little known prior to its announcement in mid-November . " We wanted a film about tolerance and ambition , " says Khalife . " This film combines these elements . It 's a family film , but also a film for people who are a bit different . It 's not about giving a message , but about showing the new wave of cinema where the heroes are not those that people are used to seeing . " <p> The Tale Of Daye 's Family is produced by Haitham Dabbour and Elshenawy for Egyptian company Blueprint Productions , in co-production with Egypt 's Synergy Films , Red Star Films , Misr International Films and Saudi Arabia 's own Cinewaves , anchoring it to the local industry . <p> The two programmers ' division of labour applies equally to the Gala titles . Khalife programmes from 22 countries in the MENA region , with Aftab taking the lead anywhere else . He negotiated with sales agent Rocket Science , which has supplied several titles to the festival , for this year 's closing gala Better Man , the story of UK pop singer Robbie Williams , from The Greatest Showman director Michael Gracey . <p> " It was the film I most wanted , " says Aftab . " As soon as I saw it , I was in tears . I think it 's one of the best films of the year . " As for its subject -- represented in the film by a CGI monkey -- his attendance at Red Sea is unconfirmed . " People know Robbie Williams better in Saudi than they do in North America , " says Aftab . " I do n't think it matters if you know him or not though -- the film is about someone 's journey through anxiety . " <p> Committed football fan Aftab -- he wore a different national team shirt for each day of the 2022 festival -- says " football has been replaced by music " for this year 's festival . As well as the opening and closing films , musical themes are found in Roya Sadat 's Competition entry Sima 's Song , and Mehdi Idir and Grand Corps Malade 's Monsieur Aznavour , a biopic of French-Armenian singer Charles Aznavour . <p> Red Sea will also give a festival premiere to Sony 's long-awaited blockbuster Kraven The Hunter on December 11 , after its world premiere , and two days before its release in the US and many other territories . " It 's exciting for us to be able to do that , " says Aftab . " We 've been chasing that this year . That Oscar-winning directors and big studios feel we can have festival premieres of their films is testament to how Red Sea has grown in such a short space of time . " <h> New home <p> Both programmers agree the site move will be beneficial to the festival experience . " Having it in one place is easier for everyone , " says Khalife , noting that the industry film market Souk is just " five minutes ' walk " from the screening rooms . " It will create a hub for cinema , " he says . Recalling more than 25 years of experience in attending festivals as a journalist , Aftab says : " The festivals I 've loved are the ones where the person who has never made a film and wants to break into film can bump into the person with 20 years ' experience . " <p> Aftab says submissions are up 10% on last year . " One of the drawbacks of the success is more people are keen to come to the festival . There are so many access points for filmmakers to contact you -- on social media , email , the official submissions -- that it becomes a bit more unwieldy . But the great thing about that is we have a lot of choice . " <p> While noting he tries not to consider countries when choosing films , Khalife says Egypt is one of two nations most prominent in this year 's selection . Egyptian titles are spread across the festival 's sections , including Snow White and Seeking Haven For Mr. Rambo in Competition , The Inevitable Journey To Find A Wedding Dress in Festival Favourites and East Of Noon in New Visions . Tunisia also appears several times , with films including Mehdi M Barsaoui 's Competition entry A ? cha arriving from Venice 's Horizons sidebar . <p> Programming from and for the Middle East offers political challenges . Khalife has selected Iranian satirist Mehran Modiri 's Iran-Turkey co-production 6AM in Competition , in which a woman 's farewell party from Iran is interrupted by the morality police . The programmer says he would gladly schedule titles from any of the country 's notable dissident filmmakers : " We are here to promote art , so when we like a film we select the film . " <p> He has also selected two Palestinian titles : Mahdi Fleifel 's 2024 festival hit To A Land Unknown and Areeb Zuaiter 's Gaza-set sports documentary Yalla Parkour . There are no Israeli films in the selection , with Khalife saying he " can not answer " if it would be possible for an Israeli picture to be selected . <p> While the festival has shown films from the UK before , this year it has its first UK title to have filmed in Jeddah itself , with the world premiere of Ahd Kamel 's My Driver And I. Produced by Georgie Paget and Thembisa Cochrane for Caspian Films , My Driver And I was backed by the festival-affiliated Red Sea Fund , which also supported seven of the 88 submissions to the 2024 international feature Oscar . " As a programmer , you want to get a jump start on other festivals , " says Aftab . " Some of the things we put in place are now coming to fruition , like the connection between the Labs and the Souk and the Funds and the programming . We 're all much more aware of what 's happening across the board . " <p> For Aftab , it is about bringing the best of international cinema to a local audience in a timely fashion . " The biggest strength of Cannes is the films come out in French cinemas straight away , " says Aftab . " The Cannes festival acts as a platform to help in the release . <p> " You have a mix between those titles that are definitely going to get a cinema release , to those titles that we want to introduce to the region , and persuade the distributors to give a shot to titles they might not try . We want to be a festival of discovery . " <h> Subscribe to Screen International <p> Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . Subscribe now for monthly editions , awards season weeklies , access to the Screen International archive and supplements including Stars of Tomorrow and World of Locations .
