<p> China views T ? rkiye as an important and credible mediator in the Russia-Ukraine war , as well as in the Middle East , according to Henry Huiyao Wang . / Photo : AA Archive <p> T ? rkiye and China have emerged as key players advocating for peace and global stability amid escalating geopolitical tensions , said a senior Chinese policymaker and a prominent expert in international affairs . <p> Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's call for urgent United Nations reforms , which emphasises the need for a more inclusive global governance structure , is worthy of praise , said Henry Huiyao Wang , founder and president of the Center for China and Globalization ( CCG ) , a Biejing-based think tank . <p> " T ? rkiye , as both a NATO member and a BRICS partner , and also a key player in the Global South , shares a strong partnership with China in promoting peace , " said Wang , who is also a former Councillor of the powerful State Council of China . <p> The State Council of China is the country 's highest administrative authority , overseeing various ministries and agencies to implement national policies and manage government affairs . <p> Wang noted that T ? rkiye and China share a commitment to peaceful conflict resolution and advancing the interests of the Global South . Both countries have acted as mediators in global crises , making their partnership crucial for addressing geopolitical challenges . <p> T ? rkiye 's mediatory role in the Russia-Ukraine war and China 's successful facilitation of talks between Iran and Saudi Arabia are examples of their potential to lead peaceful resolutions , he said . <p> Wang particularly pointed to Ankara 's successful facilitation of the Black Sea grain corridor in 2022 during the early stages of the Russia-Ukraine war , which helped prevent a global food crisis . He also praised T ? rkiye 's persistent efforts to find a peaceful resolution to the ongoing Middle East conflict , underscoring its importance in global peace initiatives . <p> " I see T ? rkiye as an important and credible mediator in the Russia-Ukraine war , as well as in the Middle East and Gaza . I believe T ? rkiye will continue to collaborate with China , Brazil , and the Global South to mediate global crises and contribute to peacebuilding efforts worldwide , " Wang said . <p> Urgent call for UN reforms <p> Wang was in Istanbul to attend the recently held TRT World Forum 2024 , where Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , in his inaugural address , called for a major overhaul of the United Nations . <p> Erdogan 's critique of the UN 's current structure focused on the dominance of the five permanent Security Council members . He argued that the system no longer reflects a multipolar world and called for urgent changes to make the UN more equitable and effective . <p> " The UN needs to be completely reformed . The world can not be left to the mercy of the five permanent ( Security Council member ) countries . The fate of 194 countries can not be left in the hands or the lips of one of these five permanent members , " Erdogan said <p> Lauding the Turkish President 's speech , Wang said it echoed China 's own vision for a more inclusive world order . <p> " I believe it is high time for the UN to undergo reform . The Global South should have a stronger voice , and the current structure should better reflect the influence of emerging economies , such as those within BRICS . " <p> Stressing that an inclusive and restructured United Nations is crucial for fostering global peace and dealing with emerging crises , the Chinese expert advocated granting G20 countries greater influence in the UN Security Council . <p> " The G20 includes 20 of the world 's most influential countries , and five of them are already permanent members of the UN Security Council ( P5 ) . Why not let the other 15 have a rotating role in the Council ? " <p> Wang proposed that while the P5 nations -- China , Russia , France , the UK , and the US -- retain their permanent seats , the remaining G20 members could occupy rotating positions , perhaps every two or three years . <p> " With its increasing influence over the years , the G20 countries must have a big say in the affairs of the world . It 's a step toward making the UN more reflective of today 's geopolitical realities . "
