<p> It 's become almost a biennial Christmas tradition : Fontaines DC return to Dublin to play a couple of shows as December rolls in . In 2019 , the year their debut album Dogrel came out , they played a pair of shows at Vicar Street , their star very much on the rise . <p> Three years later , in 2022 , it was three shows capping off A Hero 's Death and Skinty Fia - we said then that they were a band to pin your hopes on . Two years later , they 're back again , but this time in the much larger environs of the 3Arena , playing to a total of about 28,000 people over Friday and Saturday . <p> It 's all on the back of fourth record Romance , which is garnering album of the year gongs from near and far . It 's big , bright , and their best yet . <p> Arriving shortly after fellow DC baby Kojaque 's ' Larry Bird ' was floating around the arena , they play behind a sheet , for the slow buzz of the title track opener , which drops as **25;588;TOOLONG frontman Grian Chatten pronounces : " Maybe romance is a place for me and you . " <p> This must be the place for the following 90 minutes-plus , the five-piece , aided by an additional live member on keys , blasting through hits old and new . <p> Fontaines DC at 3Arena , Dublin , on Friday . <p> It 's hard not to think of scenes at Oasis gigs in the mid-1990s , as they reel off the likes of ' Jackie Down the Line ' and ' Big ' , the crowd jumping and falling around in unison , arms around each other shouting back the lyrics . ' Roman Holiday ' even kicks off with a guitar line Noel Gallagher would be jealous of . <p> Fontaines DC do have that indelible connection with the heaving crowd . Chatten , as is his wont , stomps around the stage and shows off his vocal strength on ' Nabokov ' and the scintillating ' I Love You ' , but in terms of audience interaction do you need more than the " Welcome home " he offers up about 30 minutes in ? <p> The singer also says ' Free Palestine ! " before performing ' Horseness in the Whatness ' ; Fontaines have adorned their keyboard with a Palestinian flag and there are chants in solidarity from the crowd too , as well as the de rigeur ' Ole Ole Ole ' . <p> Fontaines released a record with Young Fathers and Massive Attack in the summer in support of Medecins Sans Frontieres ' emergency operations in Gaza and the West Bank , and this week the Irish band released a new Bohemians jersey collaboration for the same cause . They have backed up their words with real action . <p> And you sense they 're happy for the songs to do the talking . ' Boys in the Better Land ' sounds as good as ever , and it feels like the 3Arena is about to take off , but it 's the triumvirate of ' Favourite ' , ' In The Modern World ' , and closer ' Starburster ' -- all off Romance -- which stand out most . <p> If the former is reminiscent of 1990s Irish indie bands such as Whipping Boy , the latter , with its panic attack-like inhales , sounds like a thrillride you wo n't want to get off of . Who knows where it 'll take Fontaines DC by the time December 2026 rolls around ...
