<h> USA , Germany and many other states actively transfer arms to Israel . They are violating their obligation to prevent genocide and are at risk of becoming complicit in the destruction of Palestine and its people <p> Palestinian children scramble for food in Khan Yunis : The total impunity enjoyed by Israel and given by its allies has allowed the killing of 42,000-plus people , more than 13,000 of them children . Photograph : Haitham Imad/European Pressphoto Agency <p> Stephen Bowen <p> Sat Dec 07 2024 - 06:45 <p> This is genocide . Amnesty International 's finding -- after many , many months of painstaking investigation and forensic analysis -- that Israel has committed and is committing genocide against Palestinians in Gaza , must now lead to firm and decisive action to end the destruction of Palestinians . The time for words , however strong , has passed , and action is needed now if Gaza is not to become the graveyard of international law . For over a year , we have witnessed a shameful and seismic failure by the international community to bring an end to this atrocity . A continued failure to act now will forever be a stain on our collective conscience , a rejection of a common humanity which appears to be at risk of being eclipsed forever . <p> We have all heard the excuses from Israel and those who excuse Israel : self-defence ; confronting terrorists ; weaponised claims of anti-Semitism ; and more . Hamas 's deadly attacks on October 7th still haunt us and have rightly been condemned as atrocity crimes . Hamas must be held accountable for their crimes and we implore them to release the hostages . <p> But nothing can justify the violent , deliberate destruction of the Palestinians in Gaza and , as our report shows , this must be recognised for what it is -- a genocide against Palestinians in Gaza unfolding before our very eyes and beamed live into our livingrooms in graphic but all too familiar detail . The Palestinians of Gaza live in a nightmare . Utter carnage has unfolded and there is no end in sight . <p> Israel is intent on the destruction and obliteration of Palestinians <p> Palestinians have been bombed , starved and repeatedly displaced . Israel 's actions have wiped out entire multigenerational families . They have destroyed Palestinian homes and livelihoods , wreaked a dreadful havoc on their infrastructure and their ties to the land . They have pulverised civilian objects , agricultural areas , cultural and religious sites . Israel has rendered great areas of Gaza simply uninhabitable . Babies are born into unsafe , unsanitary conditions . Children are destroyed in air strikes . Israel 's military has also killed tens of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza and many more have been stripped of their dignity and denied life-saving humanitarian aid , ensuring a steady , unrelenting suffocation . All of that comes on top of years of apartheid , dispossession and unlawful military occupation . These crimes are , and continue to be , deliberate actions calculated to bring about the destruction of Palestinians in Gaza . This is genocide . <p> Palestinians take cover as smoke rises following an Israeli air strike on the Al Farouq Mosque in the Al Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on November 23rd . Photograph : Mohammed Saber/EPA-EFE <p> While we pay homage , as we should , to the resilience of the Palestinian people in Gaza in the face of a genocide , States around the world can no longer sit on the fence ( or indeed on the wrong side of it ) and allow disregard for Palestinian lives to fuel this genocide . It is the total impunity enjoyed by Israel , and given so willingly to Israel by its allies , that has allowed the intentional killing of more than 42,000 people , more than 13,000 of them children . These killings , and the unprecedented level and speed of destruction in Gaza , becomes almost impossible to behold and we start to shy away from the truth . But the facts speak for themselves . Israel is intent on the destruction and obliteration of Palestinians . <p> Israel has the intent to physically destroy the Palestinian population in Gaza through killing , annihilation , displacement and starvation <p> It is not just the indiscriminate and wanton killings but the destruction and erasure of Palestinian infrastructure and all that makes life in Gaza possible . Yet many states -- the USA and Germany chief among them -- continue to actively transfer arms to Israel . They are violating their obligation to prevent genocide and are now at risk of becoming complicit . If another spur to action is needed by the international community , surely Amnesty International 's finding of genocide is just that . <p> Three of the five prohibited acts under the Genocide Convention were investigated by Amnesty International and documented in our comprehensive 300-page report . Our investigation shows that Israel is actively killing members of a group and causing serious bodily or mental harm ; inflicting conditions of life to bring about the destruction of a population ; and deliberately denying essential services and life-saving supplies . Alone , these findings are not enough , and it is crucial to demonstrate that Israel has done this with clear intent . Yes , Israel has military objectives but let us be clear , military objectives can coexist with genocidal intent . After months of investigation in the most difficult of conditions , our research proves that Israel does indeed have the intent to physically destroy the Palestinian population in Gaza through killing , annihilation , displacement and starvation . Over our nine-month investigation period , Israel persisted in committing genocidal acts , over and over again , fully aware of the irreparable harm it was inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza . All of this alongside the pre-existing context of dispossession , apartheid and unlawful military occupation in which these acts have been committed . Our call to the international community is loud and clear : every moment of further dither is a moment where countless more mothers , fathers and children will be senselessly forced to endure genocide . <p> The self-imposed " powerlessness " of states which have spoken up clearly and firmly to demand a ceasefire must end . The time to act is now . States which have called for a ceasefire must join with other like-minded states to create a common platform to end this genocide . They must be resolute ; they must be relentless ; they must be loud , clear and visible . This is genocide . This must stop . Here in Ireland , as our political leaders scramble to form a new government , we must all also accept the responsibility to demand from them , loudly and clearly : " What 's in it for Gaza ? "
