<h> ' Emilia Perez ' wins big at European Film Awards 2024 <p> Jacques Audiard 's Emilia Perez triumphed at this year 's European Film Awards , taking home five prizes including best film at tonight 's ( December 7 ) ceremony in Lucerne . <p> The Mexico-set musical drama , about a feared drug lord who undergoes gender-affirming surgery , clinched the best film , director , screenwriter and actress prizes , in addition to its previously announced editing prize . <p> Receiving the first prize of the evening , for European director , Audiard said he had prepared no fewer than three speeches . " I was being very optimistic , " he joked . Accepting the best director award he quoted British paediatrician and psychoanalyst Donald Winnicott 's famous phrase : " It is a joy to be hidden , and disaster not to be found , " and thanked the Academy for recognising him . Later in the evening , receiving the screenwriting prize , Audiard dedicated it to French-Danish actor Niels Arestrup , who he directed in The Beat That My Heart Skipped and A Prophet , and who died last week . <p> Additionally , Emilia Perez 's breakout star Karla Sof ? a Gasc ? n won the best actress prize . " Thank you to the best European director for making the best European actress -- thank you Jacques , " said Gasc ? n . <p> One of the big surprises of the evening was newcomer Abou Sangare 's best actor win for his part in Souleymane 's Story in a category that also included hotly tipped names such as Ralph Fiennes for Conclave and Daniel Craig for Queer . Sangareplays a Guinean asylum seeker who tries to work the gig economy on the streets of Paris in the drama which premiered in Cannes ' Certain Regard , winning the jury prize and earning Sangare a best actor award . <h> Political ceremony <p> A politically charged awards ceremony began with an introduction by Oscar winning actress Juliette Binoche , the new president of the European Film Academy . She said that film is a way to enlighten each other and open up to differences . " The European Film Academy is a great symbol to that dream . Our artistic reunion includes Palestine , Israel , Ukraine , Russia , Turkey , Georgia and many other countries . We are here to share our work with care and respect . " <p> The documentary prize was won by No Other Land , aboutthe Israeli demolition of villages in Masafer Yatta in the West Bank . It is the latest in a string of wins for Berlinale premiere No Other Land , which in the past weeks has also won documentary prizes at the New York Film Critics Circle and the Gothams . <p> Two of its co-directors - Israeli journalist Yuval Abraham and Palestinian activist Basel Adra -- accepted the reward remotely by video feed . Adra said it was very hard to celebrate the award at a time when " the occupation is committing a genocide against my people , " while Abraham said ethnic cleansing was being carried out against the Palestinian people in Gaza . Addressing European governments , Abraham said : " It 's not enough to demand a ceasefire . A ceasefire needs to be imposed . " As they finished their acceptance speech , a shout of " Free Palestine " rang out in the auditorium . <p> There was an added political dimension to the documentary prize category , which was presented by Belarusian filmmaker and activist Andrei Gnyot . The European Film Academy campaigned this year to prevent him being extradited back to Belarus . " Due to open letters from European film community I was freed . You can not imagine my gratitude ... you have to understand that you saved my life , that is why I am here now . " <p> Source : Cannes Film Festival <p> ' Flow ' <p> The animation prize was won by director Gints Zilbalodis 's Flow . It is the latest prize for the Latvian film , which is building real awards momentum . Earlier this week it also won best animation at the New York Film Critics Circle . Flow debuted in Cannes ' Un Certain Regard and went on to screen at Annecy , where it won four prizes including the competition jury and audience award . <p> During the ceremony , Italian actress and filmmaker Isabella Rossellini received the European Achievement In World Cinema award , while German filmmaker Wim Wenders was awarded the European Lifetime Achievement prize , and Macedonian producer Labina Mitovska was honoured with the Eurimages International Co-Production award . <p> K ? ji Yakusho , who starred as a public toilet cleaner in Wenders ' recent hit film Perfect Days , appeared in a video tribute to the director . Branding a toilet brush , he joked that he would clean Wenders ' toilet to celebrate his victory . <p> In his acceptance speech , Wenders urged the audience to serve the European film community . " Europe needs you , the film community , to produce to a more positive and emotional image of a continent that is a little bit lost in translation , because too many people think of it as an economic or financial community . But it is an emotional unity . It gives us strength and we should give it strength . " <p> This year 's ceremony took place at the KKL concert hall Lucerne , Switzerland and was hosted by Swiss voiceover actor Fernando Tiberini . Switzerland is a four-language country and Tiberini billed this year 's EFAs as multilingual awards show . He encouraged winners to speak in own language when accepting awards ; their words were interpreted live in English . " Come up on stage and be yourselves , " he said . <h> Subscribe to Screen International <p> Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . Subscribe now for monthly editions , awards season weeklies , access to the Screen International archive and supplements including Stars of Tomorrow and World of Locations .
