<h> There is nothing to celebrate on this International Human Rights Day <p> As the people of Gaza struggle to survive , International Human Rights Day rings hollow unless real change is made <p> A child near a school belonging to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) where displaced Palestinians set up makeshift tents while Israeli attacks strike in Khan Yunis , Gaza , last month . Children are starving , have been left orphaned and without an education . Photo : Abed Rahim Khatib/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> The concept of human rights is as old as civilisation itself . But it is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ( UDHR ) , adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948 , that gave birth to human rights as they are known today , and the subsequent conventions to uphold them legally . <p> Born out of the unthinkable atrocities that took place during the Second World War , the world wanted to say never again . 1948 was also the year that an estimated 750,000 Palestinians were forced to flee their homes , lands and communities in fear of violence perpetrated by violent militias and , later , the Israeli military . <p> A long history of mass forced displacement , expulsion and refugeehood has overshadowed Palestinian existence since the start of the British administration of the territory , lasting from 1922-1947 . <p> Since the creation of the State of Israel in 1948 , successive Israeli governments have overseen a continuous cycle of dispossession and nearly six million Palestinians are today registered as refugees in Lebanon , Syria , Jordan , the West Bank including East Jerusalem , and the Gaza Strip . <p> An excavator removes the rubble of destroyed buildings as rescue workers search for victims at the site of an Israeli airstrike , in Beirut , Lebanon , in October . Photo : AP/Hussein Malla <p> Tragically 76 years since the adoption of our modern human rights laws the idea of " never again " is utterly shattered . Israel 's devastating military assault on the Gaza Strip -- deemed recently by Amnesty International to be genocide -- has precipitated a catastrophic and unprecedented humanitarian crisis . <p> The orchestrated destruction of Gaza 's civilian infrastructure together with the imposition of severe restrictions on the delivery of humanitarian aid , has rendered Gaza unliveable . Israel has starved Palestinians , massacred them in record numbers and has bombed Gaza to pieces . <p> Israel has starved Palestinians , massacred them in record numbers and has bombed Gaza to pieces . The magnitude of the current violence and displacement is unprecedented in the Palestinian context . <p> Nearly 45,000 people have been killed in 14 months , and over 100,000 brutally injured in life limiting ways . The trauma for children is so deep it 's unimaginable . Children are starving , have been left orphaned and without an education . <p> Every time we think it ca n't get worse , it does . Two months ago , on October 6 the Israeli military started a brutal siege of northern Gaza and since then more than 130,000 people have been forced to flee , mostly to Gaza City . <p> A Palestinian child looks on following an Israeli airstrike on Ibn Rushd School in Al-Zawaida , sheltering displaced people , in Deir al-Balah , Gaza in October . The trauma for children is so deep it 's unimaginable . Photo : Ashraf Amra/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> The population there has surged by around 50% in recent weeks resulting in severe overcrowding and leaving an urgent need for shelter , food and other essentials . Up to 70% of those in some displacement sites are women and children , many forced to shelter in abandoned buildings or out in the open in the bitter cold and rain . <p> Virtually no aid has entered the north , leaving tens of thousands of people without food , water , fuel , transport and electricity . Starvation and malnutrition are rapidly increasing . The Famine Review Committee has warned that the threshold for famine may have already been crossed . <p> Up to 75,000 people remain in the north of Gaza , including staff and patients at ActionAid 's partner , Al-Awda Hospital , where doctors are continuing to save lives and deliver babies amid unimaginable danger and despite running desperately low on fuel and medical supplies . <p> Lamis , a pregnant mother , told ActionAid she and her family were trapped in a school in northern Gaza for two weeks before they were forced to flee . She said : " We were besieged in a school for 14 days under fire and airstrikes . <p> " We could not move , and we could n't even go to the bathroom . The Israeli army started calling out on the loudspeaker telling us to evacuate the place . <p> My children , my husband and I ran out . My husband was arrested and taken with the young men . I took my children , and we started running . My children were screaming and were scared and cold . <p> What is happening to Palestinians in 2024 goes way beyond egregious human rights violations . The abuses by Israel , completely supported and armed by the United States , amount to war crimes , crimes against humanity and it seems irrefutably clear -- genocide . <p> This abuse by Israel and its allies of the Palestinian people and ignoring human rights puts the whole system of international law at risk . It puts our humanity at risk . It is a profound moment of crisis for the world . <p> Will the world allow this genocide to become background noise ? Will we allow an indigenous population to be exterminated ? Will we allow the utter hypocrisy and moral failure of Biden 's America to go unchallenged ? <p> More aid must be allowed into Gaza urgently , and its safe delivery to those who need it guaranteed . ActionAid and other NGOs are supporting Palestinian organisations with cash transfers and trying to get aid in . It is extraordinarily difficult with rising costs , insecurity and scarce supplies . <p> If Israel 's ban on UNWRA is enforced , the level of death will be apocalyptic . Above all , there must be a permanent ceasefire now . <p> Occupied Territories Bill <p> Ireland has consistently shown solidarity with the Palestinian people . Whilst foreign policy did not feature strongly in the recent general election campaign , Irish people clearly want human rights to be upheld and justice for Palestine is at the heart of this . <p> Our solidarity , however , means nothing if we 're not willing to put condemnations into real and meaningful action . Passing the Occupied Territories Bill must be an urgent priority for the new government . While significant , it is a minimum step that must be taken in the face of genocide . <p> On this International Human Rights Day , let 's reclaim our shared humanity : stop the arms , sanction leaders , and demand justice . The time to act is now -- our humanity depends on it .
