<h> Top German rights institute warns of rising anti-Muslim racism <p> Overgeneralisations , negative stereotypes in media coverage have increased existing racism against Palestinians and people perceived as Arab or Muslim , according to the German Institute for Human Rights . <p> AA <p> The report showed that 1,926 anti-Muslim racist incidents were documented across Germany last year -- averaging more than five cases per day and marking a 114% increase from 898 incidents in 2022. / Photo : AA <p> The German Institute for Human Rights ( DIMR ) released on Monday a 32-page report examining the Gaza conflict 's impact on democracy and human rights , focusing primarily on rising antisemitism but also concerns over increased anti-Muslim incidents . <p> DIMR Director Beate Rudolf pointed out that overgeneralisations and negative stereotypes about Muslims in political discourse and media coverage following the Palestinian group Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attack have had a negative impact on basic rights and freedoms . <p> " Anyone who criticises the Israeli government is not automatically acting antisemitic . Anyone who advocates for a separate state for the Palestinians is not automatically a Hamas sympathiser . Generalisations only promote antisemitism , as well as racism against Palestinians and Muslims , " she told a press conference in Berlin . <p> The report showed that antisemitic incidents in Germany have surged since Oct. 7 , 2023 , with hate crimes doubling to 5,164 cases in 2023 , compared with the previous year . <p> More than half of these offences occurred in the final quarter . The first half of 2024 saw 1,997 antisemitic crimes reported to police . <p> DIMR called for stronger civic engagement to counter antisemitism in Germany , expanding preventive measures such as awareness-raising programs in educational institutions and providing support for projects that combat misinformation and conspiracy theories . <p> The institute also cautioned authorities against making overgeneralisations and spreading negative stereotypes about Muslims , emphasising that restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly should only be implemented in exceptional situations as permitted by law . <p> " The bans on demonstrations described as ' pro-Palestinian ' in the months after October 7 , 2023 made it difficult for people , especially people with a Palestinian family history , to publicly express their grief for the many civilian victims in Gaza and their solidarity with the civilian population there and to demand an end to the war , and an independent Palestinian state , " the report said . <p> DIMR experts pointed out that German media and politicians often overlooked the fact that Israeli Jews also attended some of these protests , advocating for the rights and concerns of both sides . <p> " The term ' pro-Palestinian ' used in the bans and taken up by politicians and the media promoted a blanket equation of Palestinians with antisemitic , pro-violence Hamas supporters . This public perception and the focus of social debates on violent demonstrations strengthened existing racism against Palestinians and people who are perceived as Arab or Muslim , " the experts have noted .
