<h> Karla Sof ? a Gasc ? n becomes the first trans woman to win best actress as Belfast 's Kneecap film loses out on two nominations <p> Some 50 kilometres south of Zurich , the compact , Alpine-flanked Swiss city of Lucerne is famed for lake views and medieval architecture . It 's a fittingly continental setting for the 37th edition of the European Film Awards ( EFAs ) and a good excuse for amiable gags about yodelling and doom metal . This year 's edition was dominated by Jacques Audiard 's striking trans-musical Emilia P ? rez . Sadly , Rich Peppiatt 's Kneecap , a fictionalised biopic of the Belfast rap trio , converted neither of its nominations into wins . <p> For the first time , Europe 's most prestigious movie bash was live-streamed by the Cork International Film Festival . The timing was perhaps unfortunate . <p> In recent years . Ireland has punched far above its weight across various glittering movie shindigs ; 2024 is a reality check . There was no Irish involvement in the extensive 15-strong shortlist for best European Film , despite a new rule that includes films shortlisted for the best documentary and animation categories in the section . <p> At the end of a fiercely competitive year for European titles , Kneecap was the only Irish contender to make the final cut , with nominations in two categories : European Discovery -- Prix FIPRESCI and European University Film Award . <p> Armand , a nervy Norwegian drama set entirely within a parent-teacher meeting and directed by Ullmann T ? ndel ( the grandson of Ingmar Bergman and Liv Ullmann ) , won Discovery . The University award , decided by students from 21 universities across Europe , went to the Romanian teen drama , Three Kilometres to the End of the World . <p> The European Young Audience Award , the only major cinema award selected by teenagers , was won by The Remarkable Life of Ibelin , a moving portrait of Mats Steen , a Norwegian man born with Duchenne muscular dystrophy who lived a rich , secret life through World of Warcraft . <p> Oscarologists kept especially close tabs on this year 's bash , where Pedro Almod ? var 's The Room Next Door , winner of the Golden Lion at Venice , competed with Audiard 's Emilia P ? rez , a double prize-winner at Cannes . Almod ? var is the current EFA record holder for most nominations for best film . Both films are fancied for best picture nominations across the Atlantic . Jacques <p> The night did not bode well for the Almod ? var film , his first English-language picture , starring Academy Award veterans Julianne Moore and Tilda Swinton . The Spanish auteur 's 22nd feature , which many hoped would translate into his first Oscar nomination , went home empty-handed . <p> An out-of-breath Maria Baklava , the Bulgarian star of Borat Subsequent Moviefilm and Bodies Bodies Bodies , came straight from storm-delayed flights to the stage of the Entlebuch Culture and Congress Center ( KKE ) to present Audiard with the award for best European director . It was the beginning of a sweep for Emilia P ? rez which took home statuettes for best screenplay and best film . <p> Demi Moore-led horror-comedy The Substance scored the most nominations at this year 's EFAs , with nods in the best film and screenwriting categories , and wins for cinematography and visual effects . <p> There were understandable whoops throughout the auditorium when Gints Zilbalodis 's Flow , a gorgeous feature-length cartoon about a cat venturing through a flooded world , was named best animated feature . <p> The EFAs brought together Ralph Fiennes and Juliette Binoche for their fourth screen collaboration following 1992 's Emily Bront ? ' s Wuthering Heights , 1996 's The English Patient , and Fiennes 's The Return , a brand new adaptation of Odysseus , focusing on the Greek hero 's post-adventure domestic life with Penelope . <p> Binoche was double-jobbing . As the new president of the European Film Academy , she opened the ceremony in a circumspect mood : " No one apologises any more for committing murders , " said the actor . " Choosing joy is a way to resist the darkness ; that 's why we are perhaps here " . She took care to note participating EFA nations . " Our artistic union includes Palestine , Israel , Ukraine , Russia , Turkey , Georgia . " <p> It was a politically charged evening . When West Bank contender No Other Land was announced as the winner of the best documentary , there were cries of " Free Palestine " in the auditorium . Palestinian Hiam Abbass paused to remember the children of Gaza before presenting Jacques Audiard with the best film award . <p> Fiennes presented Isabella Rossellini with the European achievement in world cinema award , joking about her involvement in dragonfly sex films : namely Green Porno , her nature series on animal sexual behaviour . She manifests the talents of both famous parents , Robert Rossellini and Ingrid Bergman , said Fiennes before welcoming the recipient of the ceremony 's longest and loudest applause . <p> Martin Scorsese , Milla Jovovich , and Nick Cave were among a starry crew paying tribute to Wim Wenders , the former European Academy president and lifetime achievement award winner . <p> His collaborator K ? ji Yakusho got the biggest laugh of the night . The Japanese actor , named best actor at Cannes 2023 for his turn as an academic turned lavatory cleaner in Wenders 's Perfect Days , sent a video with an irresistible offer : " I clean your toilet , boss ! " <p> History was made in the acting categories . aest Actor Abou Sangar ? became the first Guinean to win a European Film Award for his heart-rending performance in Souleymane 's Story , a nail-biting account of the life of an undocumented asylum seeker in France . while Karla Sof ? a Gasc ? n became the first trans woman to win Best European Actress for her work on Emilia P ? rez . <p> The next edition of the EFAs will take place in Berlin in January 2026 , a bid to become part of the larger awards season conversation . Ironically , the increasing prominence of Cannes and Venice entrants at the Academy Awards suggests the EFAs need not have budged . The overlap with the prize winners from the planet 's two premiere festivals is striking . <p> Let 's hope the EFAs are n't Hollywoodised by the date change . The ceremony remains commendably idiosyncratic and European . A Swiss rowing club pondered the best documentary category ; a punk band mulled over the animation entries , and the in-memoriam section was ushered in with a long quote from local boy , Jean-Jacques Rousseau . <p> Rather appropriately for a country with four official languages -- do n't forget Romansh -- compere Fernando Tiberini invited all award winners to speak their native languages , making for a pleasing Tower of Babel effect . You do n't see that at the Golden Globes.
