<p> Binyamin Netanyahu testified on Tuesday in his long-running corruption trial , becoming the first sitting Israeli prime minister to take the stand as a criminal defendant . <p> " I have waited eight years for this moment , to tell the truth as I remember it , which is important for justice . There is no justice without truth , " he said . " But I am also a prime minister . I am leading the country through a seven-front war . And I think the two can be done in parallel . " <p> He described the three separate corruption cases involving alleged gifts , media deals and regulatory favours as " complete lies " and " an ocean of absurdness " . He told the three-member panel of judges at the Tel Aviv district court that the charges of bribery , fraud and breach of trust were politically motivated because he was the leader of Israel 's right wing , which his opponents sought to topple . <p> On the first day of his testimony , Mr Netanyahu answered questions posed to him by his defence lawyers , stressing his accomplishments as prime minister , his fortitude under pressure and his efforts to advance a free market for opinions in the media -- which he described as dominated by the left -- a key part of two of the cases against him . " They told me , ' Make a Palestinian state and give them half of Jerusalem ' . Because I rejected this , the media hated me , " he claimed . <p> Mr Netanyahu denied allegations that he lives the good life , saying he is too busy to enjoy leisure time . " I work round the clock , 17 or 18 hours a day , and eat lunch at my desk , then go to bed at one or two in the morning without seeing my family or children . We have no life here . I occasionally enjoy a good cigar but never manage to smoke it entirely because I am interrupted by my work , " he said . " By the way , I loathe champagne . " <p> Mr Netanyahu faces corruption charges in three cases : the first , known as " Case 1,000 ? centres on gifts he allegedly received from Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan and Australian billionaire James Packer ; " Case 2,000 ? focuses on an illicit deal he allegedly tried to strike with Yediot Ahronoth newspaper publisher Arnon Mozes so as to ensure positive coverage , and " Case 4,000 ? centres on an alleged deal by which Shaul Elovitch , then the controlling shareholder of Israeli telecom corporation Bezeq , ensured positive coverage of the Netanyahu family by the Walla ! news website , which Mr Elovitch owned , in exchange for the prime minister promoting government regulations worth the equivalent of hundreds of millions of euro to the company . <p> Mr Netanyahu denies all the allegations , claiming the graft claims are nothing more than a witch hunt by the left , supported by the judiciary and media , in an effort to topple him from power . <p> Several coalition ministers and politicians were present in court to show their support , while outside , rival noisy protests took place . Relatives of the hostages in Gaza held a silent vigil , claiming Mr Netanyahu 's biggest crime was the " abandonment " of the 101 hostages in captivity in Gaza . <p> It is expected the trial will last at least another year , if not two . Even if Mr Netanyahu is eventually convicted , and assuming he appeals , legally he would be required to resign only after the final judgment of Israel 's supreme court , which could take a further few years . <p> According to Israeli law , the maximum punishment is 10 years in jail for a bribery conviction , but this scenario is unlikely since the judges have already recommended that the prosecution drop the bribery charges . The punishment for fraud and breach of trust is three years in jail .
