<h> Is Israel embarking on a land grab in Syria ? <p> As Israel 's ceasefire with Hezbollah takes effect and the war with Hamas in Gaza continues to rage , it appeared as if the news spotlight was shifting away from the Jewish state as the fall of the Assad regime in Syria took centre stage . This was a short-lived change , however , with the Benjamin Netanyahu administration also embroiled in the Syrian conflict by his own choice . <p> On December 5 , as Syrian opposition forces led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) captured the strategic city of Hama , Israel launched airstrikes along the Lebanese border . On December 8 , amid the rapid disintegration of Bashar al-Assad 's regime , the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) saw a need to bolster its security forces station near Syria as the conflict escalated to new heights . <p> The IDF has announced plans to deploy additional troops for defensive operations in the Golan Heights as Syria 's military unexpectedly withdraws from key positions along the Israel-Syria border . This comes after the Syrian army began retreating from the Quneitra province bordering Israel , allowing the rebel forces to take charge . <p> By December 10 , Israeli troops are less than 15km away from the Syria capital city of Damascus , with the potential to even reach the capital by the end of the day despite protests by the UN and other regional leaders . <p> It was at this stage that the IDF signalled its intentions , announcing that it would only withdraw from its newly established buffer zone once Syria 's situation became more stable . Still , the question remains : when exactly would the situation become more stable and under what conditions would Israel consider Syria to be stable enough in order to begin the withdrawal of the IDF ? <p> After all , Israel has a history of holding what is considered enemy territory amid regional conflicts . At the conclusion of the Six-Day War in 1967 , Israel held the entire Sinai Peninsular after pushing back Egyptian forces . Still , Israel returned the Sinai to Egyptian hands after a ceasefire came into effect . <p> Still , not all territories that Israel conquered during that war were returned to their previous administrators . The Golan Heights of southern Syria remain in Israeli hands to this day , with Israel annexing the part of the territory that it held in December 1981 . <p> Given the IDF 's presence in the Golan Heights at this time , many may be wondering whether the military 's objective really is to retain a buffer zone until such time as the regional volatility subsides or whether there may be an opportune land grab at play . <p> To understand what Israel 's plan of action may be , it 's worth drawing parallels between the situation in Syria and how the IDF recently operated in Lebanon against Hezbollah . <p> While Israel and Hezbollah had been exchanging rocket fire since the outbreak of war on October 7 , 2023 , Israel decided to engage in ground operations against the Islamic militia . This included the establishment of a security zone near the Israel-Lebanon border and a ground incursion into southern Lebanon in which the IDF issued an evacuation warning to residents of 20 villages in southern Lebanon following a night of airstrikes . <p> On November 27 , Israel 's ground incursion into Lebanon came to a halt . The previous evening , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed his country , confirming that he would be putting the proposed Israel-Hezbollah ceasefire deal to a vote in his Cabinet . <p> The proposal required Israeli troops to withdraw from southern Lebanon while the Lebanese army would deploy approximately 5,000 troops to the region . <p> Although there had been several violations of the agreement after it came into effect , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken maintained that the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon remains steady , as the monitoring mechanism prescribed continued to operate as planned . <p> While the Greater Golan Heights remains in doubt following Assad 's fall , the ongoing encroachment , despite denials by the IDF and government , appear to have one trajectory , and that is to cut off the Syrians from the southwest of the country and the home of Ahmad Al-Sharaa ( Al-Jolani ) . <p> Based on what has occurred in Lebanon , it appears as if Israel 's recent actions in Syria are a form of defensive buffer and nothing more . It also makes little practical sense for Israel to venture deeper into Syria , given the resources being spread between the ongoing Gaza war and the monitoring of the Lebanon situation . <h> Economic issues have returned to the spotlight in Lebanon , with prospects of a financial collapse taking centre stage as the country reels from its more than one-year war with Israel . <h> If Putin wants to quickly develop Port Sudan as an alternative to Russia 's naval base in Syria , he may need to finally pick a side and align with the SAF , who control the area . Meanwhile , Russia is already landing military aircraft in Libya . <h> Reports <h> Cookies on the bne IntelliNews website <p> This site uses cookies - small text files that are placed on your machine to help the site provide a better user experience . In general , cookies are used to retain user preferences , store information for things like shopping carts , and provide anonymised tracking data to third party applications like Google Analytics . As a rule , cookies will make your browsing experience better . However , you may prefer to disable cookies on this site and on others . The most effective way to do this is to disable cookies in your browser . We suggest consulting the Help section of your browser or taking a look at the About Cookies website which offers guidance for all modern browsers . <h> Recover access to bne IntelliNews <h> Recover password <h> Recovery token has expired or does n't exist . <p> Access recovery request has expired , or you are using the wrong recovery token . Please , try again . <h> Set new password <p> Access recover request has expired . Please , try again . <h> Complete registration process <p> To continue viewing our content you need to complete the registration process . <p> Please look for an email that was sent to with the subject line " Confirmation bne IntelliNews access " . This email will have instructions on how to complete registration process . Please check in your " Junk " folder in case this communication was misdirected in your email system .
