<h> Netanyahu to begin giving evidence in Israel 's ' trial of the century ' <h> Israeli PM has done everything he can to avoid facing long-standing corruption charges <p> Police opened corruption investigations against Benjamin Netanyahu eight years ago and it is and almost five five years since he was indicted , making him the first serving prime minister in Israel 's history to go on trial . Photograph : Atef Safadi/Pool/AFP via Getty Images <p> Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu is to begin giving evidenceon Tuesday in a case , in which he faces corruption charges , that has been dubbed Israel 's " trial of the century " . <p> Police opened investigations against him eight years ago and it is almost five years since he was indicted , making him the first serving prime minister in Israel 's history to go on trial . He is accused of fraud and breach of trust in three separate cases , including one in which he also faces the more serious charge of bribery . <p> Mr Netanyahu has done everything he can to avoid reaching this moment , with his legal team using every avenue at their disposal , with some success , to delay the proceedings . <p> Judges rejected the argument that regular appearances by Netanyahu at the same venue constituted a security risk , but did consent to move the proceedings from Jerusalem to an underground chamber at the Tel Aviv district court . <p> Netanyahu subsequently tried to spread out his testimony for as long as possible , requesting two short hearings a week , but the judges also rejected this , ruling that he must appear in three full sessions over consecutive days each week . <p> The court also rejected the claim from parliament speaker Amir Ohana that the Knesset must co-ordinate with Netanyahu when setting the dates for the testimony -- a decision Ohana described as a violation of the separation of powers . <p> The dramatic events in Syria in recent days have prompted a number of ministers to urge the court to delay Netanyahu 's testimony for three months , to enable him to devote all his time to a crisis which could affect Israel 's security for years to come . Others cited the ongoing war in Gaza and the attempts to secure a ceasefire and hostage release deal as a reason to delay the testimony . <p> The judges , however , have clearly lost patience with the defence team 's attempts to delay the trial and ruled that the public interest demands the proceedings proceed without delay . <p> In the first case , known as " Case 1,000 ? , Netanyahu is accused of attempting to grant a tax break to his billionaire friend Arnon Milchan in exchange for lavish gifts from the tycoon , who supplied regular deliveries of expensive cigars for Netanyahu and champagne for his wife Sara , who also received jewellery . Netanyahu also asked US secretary of state at the time , John Kerry , to assist with Milchan 's US visa request . <p> " Case 2,000 ? centres on an allegation that Netanyahu asked the publisher of the Yediot Ahronot newspaper for more positive coverage in exchange for help in reining in a rival publication , the popular , pro-Netanyahu free newspaper Yisrael Hayom , owned by now-deceased American casino mogul Sheldon Adelson , a close friend of the prime minister at the time . <p> " Case 4,000 ? , the only one that includes allegations of bribery , involves claims that Netanyahu ensured financial benefits for telecom mogul Shaul Elovitch in return for favourable coverage on a popular news website owned by Elovitch . <p> Netanyahu denies all the allegations and claims they are nothing more than a witch-hunt by the left , supported by the judiciary and media , in an effort to topple him from power . <p> Prosecutors have already called 140 witnesses to the stand , including some of Netanyahu 's closest former confidants , who have turned against him . A new documentary , The Bibi Files , banned in Israel , shows footage of Netanyahu and his wife being questioned by police . He denounces those who testified against him as liars , and , when questioned on the specific graft allegations , time and again responded that he could n't remember .
