<p> The recent farmers ' protests have been portrayed by right-wing politicians and media as a great eruption of discontent from Britain 's silent majority . <p> Unlike the general election , say , or larger protests about climate change , Gaza , or public sector pay , we 're told the tractors rolling through Whitehall represent the true will of the people . <p> Everyone 's getting in on the act , from TV 's Jeremy Clarkson , to Nigel Farage 's Reform party , to the anti-vaxxers and conspiracy theorists of the Together Declaration . <p> " This feels to me like a bigger war , " boomed Farage at the 19 November demo . " This is the start ... and this needs to be happening in market towns up and down the country . " <p> PR executive James Melville , who runs the Together-allied ' No Farmers , No Food ' group , called the issue " probably the most important fight for the very fabric of British society right now " . <p> Clarkson wrote in the Sun that Labour chancellor Rachel Reeves was " an admirer of communists " . He added that she and Starmer " have a sinister plan " : " They want to carpet bomb our farmland with new towns for immigrants and net zero windfarms . But before they can do that , they have to ethnically cleanse the countryside of farmers . " The Sun 's fact-checkers are presumably in a coma . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> As has been noticed , Clarkson 's an odd choice of revolutionary , having told the Sunday Times in 2021 that he only bought his farm to avoid inheritance tax . The ' Clarkson 's Farm ' presenter -- who , as people tend to forget , was sacked from BBC 's Top Gear in 2015 for punching his producer -- has since been asked by the National Farmers Union to leave the protesting to them . <p> Even Conservative Party leader Kemi Badenoch , whose Brexit trade policies saw similar protests in March , turned up at the demo to tell farmers : " This policy is cruel and unfair and it 's going to destroy farming as we know it . " <p> Badenoch has used the farmers ' protests as a symbol of public opposition to Labour 's budget . At prime minister 's questions on 21 November , she told Starmer : " While he was in Rio de Janeiro for the G20 summit , hard-working farmers were protesting outside the Downing Street gates at his cruel family farms tax . " This week the Tory leader is organising an opposition day motion in parliament to reverse the policy . <p> Now , farmers have every right to complain about having to pay inheritance tax -- even if it 's at a lower rate than everyone else , and only on land worth ? 1m , with loopholes that make it more like ? 3m . But as these examples show , their gripes are clearly being hijacked by right-wing chancers who have more than agri on their mind . <p> This follows a trend in Europe , where farmers in France , Italy , Belgium and the Netherlands protesting a range of issues have been portrayed by far-right parties as a revolt against green policies and out-of-touch governments . <p> There 's history here . The potent symbol of the sturdy farm worker has been used as propaganda by the extreme left and right , including Nazis and communists . The first party to call itself populist , the People 's Party in 1890s America , was a movement of agrarian workers built out of the Farmers ' Alliance . But those populists were taking on the moneyed interests of their day ( land creditors and rail monopolies ) , and working with the Knights of Labor , an early trade union , to fight the social injustice of the Gilded Age . <p> Contrast this with the class-blind debate today . First , politicians and media hacks pretend that the interests of rich agricultural landowners are the same as those of " family farms " . Second , they talk as if farmers somehow represent the " real people " of Britain , ( a mistake also made by the 1890s populists ) . <p> This conveniently ignores , for example , big landowners like vaccum billionaire James Dyson buying up small farms -- or the many " families " who will never inherit property , and who rely on crumbling public services like the NHS . <p> Thus the farmers ' protests expose the hollowness of a populism which tries to ignore class divisions , and reduces politics to a puppet show about " the elites " against " the people " . <p> The fact that this propaganda is obvious nonsense does n't mean it ca n't be effective . As the election of Donald Trump in the US shows , you can always get people to blame the government ( or immigrants ) for their problems , even if it means voting for policies which would hurt them or serve the rich . How 's Brexit going , by the way ? <p> As John Harris argues in the Guardian , a cautious Labour government which is bad at explaining itself or telling a better story ( ideally one based on the facts ) is especially vulnerable to this sort of attack . This is a dangerous political situation , and it wo n't be solved by half-measures or dodging the argument .
