<h> The Irish Times view on Syria : a lot at stake after collapse of Assad 's regime <h> Much remains uncertain about whether a stable government can emerge and this has major implications for the country and the Middle East <p> DAMASCUS , SYRIA - DECEMBER 8 : People react to the fall of Syrian regime in Umayyad Square on December 8 , 2024 in Damascus , Syria . Rebel forces in Syria claimed that they had retaken the capital from longtime ruler Bashar al-Assad , who was reported to have fled the country . Syria has been mired in a multi-party civil war since 2011 , amid the Arab Spring uprisings . ( Photo by Ali Haj Suleiman/Getty Images ) <p> Sun Dec 08 2024 - 20:05 <p> Damascus has fallen . President Bashir al-Assad has reportedly fled to Russia , his once-vaunted army , unpaid and demoralised , disintegrating in the face of the rebels lightning offensive . First Aleppo fell to the rebels , then only days later Hama and the strategic city of Homs , and on to the capital Damascus . Assad 's prime minister Mohammad Ghazi al-Jalali promises to co-operate with the rebels . <p> On the streets there were astonished , relieved residents , the rebels opened the doors of the country 's infamous prisons and in neighbouring Lebanon and Turkey exiled Syrians celebrated . The rebels have promised order , many posted outside banks and other public institutions to guard them . <p> In just a few days the balance of power in the turbulent region has been turned on its head . Blowback from the Israeli onslaught on Gaza and Lebanon , and an uphill battle in Ukraine for Russia , have seen Assad 's powerful allies turn their back on him , exposing the brutal , impoverished regime , as Mao Zedong would have put it , as a paper tiger . <p> It represents a watershed for the Middle East , in upheaval since the Hamas attack on Israel in October 2023 . Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu hailed a " historic day " as he argued that his country 's attacks on Iran and Lebanon 's Hizbullah had set off a " chain reaction " throughout the region . <p> The Islamist faction Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which seized the opportunity and leads the alliance which swept the country , had largely been confined to Syria 's north-west province of Idlib before beginning its offensive 12 days ago . Once an affiliate of al-Qaeda , it has rebranded itself as a patriotic nationalist movement and its leader has sought to play down fears of reprisals . <p> International observers , delighted to see the back of Assad , will wonder nervously whether the leopard has really changed its spots . Not least are concerns that the multitude of factions who had united against Assad will now turn on each other . <p> Assad , a London-trained eye doctor , took power in 2000 , the latest of a ruthless family at the head of the secularist Baathist Party that has run Syria since a 1970 coup . They are Alawites , a minority sect that is an offshoot of Shia Islam . In 2011 a bloody civil war started during the Arab Spring and escalated into a multifaceted conflict involving domestic opposition groups , Kurdish rebels , extremist factions and international powers , including the US , Iran and Russia . <p> More than 500,000 Syrians have died , and millions more have fled their homes , six million of them abroad to Lebanon and Turkey . But much now remains uncertain about whether a stable government can emerge , or more fighting and suffering lies ahead . And in turn this has major implications for the wider Middle East region .
