<h> EXPLAINER : US sanctions on Gazprombank and what they mean for Russian gas in Europe <p> The end of Russian gas transits through Ukraine after December 31 is a much greater threat to Europe 's energy security . / bne IntelliNews <p> By NewsbaseDecember 9 , 2024 <p> The sanctions have created some uncertainty and difficulties , but are unlikely to cause disruptions to gas flows , especially now that Russia has eased its own restrictions for payments . The end of Russian gas transits through Ukraine after December 31 is a much greater threat to Europe 's energy security . <p> WHAT : The Biden administration announced sanctions on Gazprombank , which handles Europe 's payments for Russian gas , on November 21 , as part of a fresh wave of restrictions on Russia 's finance sector . <p> WHY : The move was aimed at increasing pressure on the Kremlin ahead of expected negotiations with the Trump administration on ending the fighting in Ukraine . <p> WHAT NEXT : The end of Ukrainian gas transit could push Europe into a new energy crisis , worsening its looming recession . <p> The Biden administration 's announcement of sanctions on Gazprombank , which handles all payments for Russian gas entering what Moscow refers to as " unfriendly countries " in Europe , understandably caused some ripples on the gas market . But the Kremlin has already loosened its own restrictions to prevent the sanctions from disrupting gas payments . And Washington 's objective with the sanctions was not ending Russian gas trade in Europe , and the Biden administration is already reportedly in talks with the EU on avoiding any fallout on energy supply . <p> The much greater threat to Europe 's energy security is the increasingly likely end of Russian gas transits through Ukraine after December 31 , which could trigger a new energy crisis on the continent . <p> OFAC designates Gazprombank <p> On November 21 , the US Treasury Department 's Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ) imposed sanctions on Gazprombank , along with 50 internationally connected Russian banks , more than 40 Russian securities registrars and 15 Russian finance officials . <p> While Gazprombank has long been on the Biden administration 's radar , it has previously avoided targeting the bank , primarily because of its critical role in facilitating payments for Russian gas supplies to Europe . Under a March 2022 decree , the Kremlin stated that buyers of Russian gas supplies to what it calls " unfriendly countries " would need to make payments for those supplies into special accounts in their name at Gazprombank . Those foreign currency payments had to be deposited into one account and then converted into rubles and transferred into another , before being sent to Gazprom . <p> OFAC has given US individuals and businesses until December 20 to cut all ties with Gazprombank . In light of secondary sanctions , European individuals and businesses must also comply with the sanctions . <p> Then why target Gazprombank now ? <p> In its final weeks in power , the Biden administration is ramping up sanctions pressure on Russia ahead of expected future negotiations between US President-elect Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin on ending the fighting in Ukraine , once the former enters the White House on January 20 . <p> More sanctions means more leverage , at a time when Russia continues to gain more leverage of its own on the battlefield , as Ukrainian forces lose territory and low morale and high numbers of desertions raise the risk of their front lines collapsing . <p> Europe receives far less Russian gas now than it did two years ago , and almost half of remaining pipeline supply is set to be halted at the end of this year , assuming Moscow and Kyiv 's deal for Russian gas transit through Ukraine expires without renewal , and alternative arrangements to continue flow are not made . The Biden administration may therefore reason that if most Russian gas flow will end anyway , there is less risk to Europe 's gas market from sanctions . <p> Ukraine 's government has repeatedly insisted it does not want to extend the agreement , and the European Commission says it views an extension as unnecessary . Several alternative arrangements have been suggested over recent months to continue Russian gas flow through Ukraine without a transit deal . Azerbaijan has proposed taking over transit , presumably by acquiring Russian gas at the Russia-Ukraine border . This could involve a swap deal , whereby Russian assumes an equivalent amount of Azeri gas heading to a similarly-priced market , such as Turkey . But it is unclear how Russia would benefit from this arrangement , and it would be complicated to organise . <p> Alternatively , European buyers could purchase Russian gas at the Russia-Ukraine border and take responsibility for its transit through Ukrainian territory . <p> Both options would be complicated to finalise , and there are no public signs of progress on either and time is short . As such , most analysts assume that Russian gas supply through Ukraine will end after December 31 , and the market has already priced in this expected disruption . <p> Russia transited 14.3bn cubic metres of gas via Ukraine in 2023 , which was roughly equal to 5% of Europe 's gas demand . The worst affected by the disruption will be Austria , Slovakia and Moldova , and to a lesser extent Hungary , which already uses the alternative TurkStream route to receive some of its Russian gas . <p> Did the US want to disrupt Russian gas flows to Europe ? <p> Probably not . Besides the fact that Russian gas transit through Ukraine is expected to end anyway soon , using sanctions to disrupt Russian energy export volumes runs would be inconsistent with the Biden administration 's sanctions policy against Russia to date . <p> Note that the US-led price cap on Russian oil exports did not seek to cut Russian export volumes but only to reduce the amount of revenue Russia earned from them . Instead , Russian oil export volumes have fallen over the last two years primarily because of the country 's OPEC+ commitments . <p> Also note that the US has not imposed sanctions on any operational Russian LNG projects , such as Yamal LNG and Sakhalin-2 , and instead targeted the new Arctic LNG-2 project last year . Washington 's aim here was to prevent Russia expanding in the LNG sector , while leaving existing exports untouched . Notably , OFAC provided a licence to allow continued transactions with Gazprombank when they relate to LNG supplies from the Sakhalin-2 project to Japan , recognising the importance of this trade continuing for Japan 's energy security . <p> Instead , Gazprombank was targeted for the reasons stated . In a statement , US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said the sanctions would " further diminish and degrade Russia 's war machine . This sweeping action will make it harder for the Kremlin to evade US sanctions and fund and equip its military . " <p> Yellen made no mention of Russian energy . The sanctions were about preventing Gazprombank 's use as a conduit for funding and equipping its military , and evading other sanctions . <p> Russia makes it easier to pay for gas <p> Russia responded on December 5 by amending its March 2022 decree . Now , buyers of gas supplies to " unfriendly countries " can pay for them using intermediary Russian banks , which will convert them into rubles for onward transfer to Gazprombank , which remains the sole authorised bank to handle payments for gas . <p> Nearly all major Russian banks are already sanctioned , but unlike Gazprombank , OFAC has already issued licences allowing continued dealings with some of them when energy payments are concerned . <p> In other words , European customers will be able to continue paying for Russian gas , but the process will be more complicated . Notably , Turkey has also asked for a waiver on supplies . <p> To soften the impact of the sanctions further , the EU is in discussions with the US on mitigation measures , including potentially allowing payments for gas to be made legally via a Luxembourg-based subsidiary of Gazprombank , according to Bloomberg . The US could also issue a licence to allow continued energy payments via Gazprombank , to make the process even easier . <p> In a nutshell , all sides seem willing to ensure that the sanctions do not impact Europe 's energy supply . <p> Still , Europe 's gas market must brace for difficulty <p> The end of Russian gas transit through Ukraine after December 31 poses a much greater challenge to Europe 's gas market than the latest US sanctions . The disruption will take place in the middle of winter , when demand is typically much higher . Following the destruction of the Nord Stream pipelines and the end of flow via the Yamal-Europe pipeline in 2022 , the only other route for Russian gas to Europe besides Ukraine is the TurkStream . Only one of its two 15.75 bcm per year strings sends gas to Europe , while the other provides gas to the Turkish market . <p> As noted , the market has already priced in the impact of the end of Ukrainian transit . This helps explain the recent surge in European gas prices , with front-month contracts at the Dutch TTF gas hub rising in recent weeks to their highest level this year . However , prices could surge even higher depending on weather conditions and wind power output , which has been lower than usual in recent months , driving up gas-fired generation . In Germany , the continent 's biggest wind power producer by installed capacity , output was 25% lower year on year in October and November , according to Reuters . <p> Europe still has significant quantities of gas in storage , with facilities filled to 82.4% of capacity as of December 7 . But this is less than Europe had at the same point in 2023 and in 2022 , as inventories have been withdrawn at a faster rate over the last month . If Ukrainian transit ends , this could propel the continent into a new energy crisis . <p> Higher energy costs will only exacerbate high cost-of-living conditions on consumers and make Europe 's looming recession worse , say economists . Europe is already facing a crisis after the report from former Italian Prime Minister and ex-European Central Bank boss Mario Draghi warned that Europe has lost its competitive edge . Germany is particularly vulnerable , as its energy costs are already the highest in Europe . <h> Economic issues have returned to the spotlight in Lebanon , with prospects of a financial collapse taking centre stage as the country reels from its more than one-year war with Israel . <h> If Putin wants to quickly develop Port Sudan as an alternative to Russia 's naval base in Syria , he may need to finally pick a side and align with the SAF , who control the area . Meanwhile , Russia is already landing military aircraft in Libya . <h> As Israel 's ceasefire with Hezbollah takes effect and the war with Hamas in Gaza continues to rage , it appeared as if the news spotlight was shifting away from the Jewish state as the fall of the Assad regime in Syria took centre stage . <h> Reports <h> Cookies on the bne IntelliNews website <p> This site uses cookies - small text files that are placed on your machine to help the site provide a better user experience . In general , cookies are used to retain user preferences , store information for things like shopping carts , and provide anonymised tracking data to third party applications like Google Analytics . As a rule , cookies will make your browsing experience better . However , you may prefer to disable cookies on this site and on others . The most effective way to do this is to disable cookies in your browser . We suggest consulting the Help section of your browser or taking a look at the About Cookies website which offers guidance for all modern browsers . <h> Recover access to bne IntelliNews <h> Recover password <h> Recovery token has expired or does n't exist . <p> Access recovery request has expired , or you are using the wrong recovery token . Please , try again . <h> Set new password <p> Access recover request has expired . Please , try again . <h> Complete registration process <p> To continue viewing our content you need to complete the registration process . <p> Please look for an email that was sent to with the subject line " Confirmation bne IntelliNews access " . This email will have instructions on how to complete registration process . Please check in your " Junk " folder in case this communication was misdirected in your email system .
