<h> Palantir , company at centre of row surrounding TD Eoin Hayes , is no stranger to controversy at home or abroad <h> US surveillance company has links with Israel Defense Forces and CIA <p> Founded with investment from PayPal billionaire Peter Thiel in Silicon Valley shortly after the invasion of Iraq in 2003 , Palantir has had close links to the murky side of the US security state since its inception . Photograph : Andrew White/The New York Times <p> Palantir , the $160 billion ( ? 152 billion ) US surveillance company at the centre of the farrago around suspended Social Democrats TD Eoin Hayes , is no stranger to controversy . Mr Hayes had recently sold shares in Palantir , which has links to the Israel Defense Forces . <p> Founded with investment from PayPal billionaire Peter Thiel in Silicon Valley shortly after the invasion of Iraq in 2003 , the company has had close links to the murky side of the US security state since its inception . <p> An early believer in the company 's potential was In-Q-Tel , a venture capital firm owned by the Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) , which invests in security technology businesses . <p> Palantir , which derives its name from a magical , all-seeing crystal orb in JRR Tolkien 's Lord of the Rings series , counted the CIA as its only customer in its early years . <p> By 2013 , Palantir 's client list included practically every letter in the alphabet soup that makes up the US intelligence " community " , from the National Security Agency ( NSA ) to the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) along with branches of the military . <p> Shortly thereafter , Palantir was awarded a ? 23 million ( ? 28 million ) contract to run the National Health Service 's ( NHS ) Covid-19 data platform before winning a ? 480 million NHS contract in 2023 to provide further services . <p> Given the scope of its activities and the nature of its client base , controversy has stalked Palantir throughout its lifetime . <p> Most recently , its artificial intelligence tools have reportedly been used in Gaza to identify lists of targets for Israeli drones and air strikes . Its activities in the region , where Israel stands accused of crimes against humanity for its response to the Hamas-led attack on October 7th of last year , have led to condemnation , even in the corporate world . <p> In October , Storebrand Asset Management , one of the largest investors in the Nordic region , sold its holdings in Palantir over concerns that its work for the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) could put the asset manager at risk of violating international law . <p> For his part , Palantir chief executive and co-founder Alex Karp has roundly defended the company 's support for Israel . " There are a lot of people in the industry who are maybe not as pro-Israel as I am , " he said in an interview at Tel Aviv University earlier this year . <p> " But they think of Israel as a very special place and are generally more understanding of the Israeli position and view Israel 's accomplishments of building a nation from a desert . " <p> On its home front , Palantir 's activities have been equally controversial . Ahead of its initial public offering in 2020 , Amnesty International sent a letter to the company , detailing its concerns over its contracts with the Department of Homeland Security and US Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) . <p> Amnesty said ICE had relied on Palantir technology to arrest parents of unaccompanied children and the US border and helped the authority to organise mass raids , which led to the separation of children from their caregivers . <p> The human rights organisation said Palantir had failed to conduct human rights due diligence over those contracts , potentially contributing to human rights violations against migrants and asylum seekers . <p> Sign up for the Business Today newsletter and get the latest business news and commentary in your inbox every weekday morning <p> Opt in to Business push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
