<h> Yemen-based Houthis are the only full-strength survivors of Tehran 's axis of resistance <p> Iran 's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has blamed the United States and Israel for the fall of the Assad regime . Assad 's overthrow is seen as a major blow to Shia-Muslim Iran 's regional policies and status . <p> The ayatollah said , " What happened in Syria was mainly planned in the command rooms of America and Israel . " He referred to the involvement of a " neighbouring government of Syria " without mentioning Turkey , which played a major role in Assad 's fall . Despite the takeover of Syria by the Sunni fundamentalist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) and allied opposition groups , Tehran has said it seeks good relations with Damascus if the new government embraces Syria 's diverse communities . <p> Tehran and Damascus developed close strategic ties after Iran 's 1979 clerical revolution ousted the US-supported pro-Israel shah and adopted the Palestinian cause . During the 1980s , Syria outraged fellow Arabs by backing Iran during the Iran-Iraq War . At the time , Syria was ruled by the branch of the Baath Party under Hafez al-Assad and Iraq was governed by a rival branch under Saddam Hussein . Gulf states armed and funded Iraq while Egypt and Jordan supported Iraq politically . By choosing Iran in this conflict , Syria endured decades of Arab ostracism . <p> Egypt 's 1979 peace treaty with Israel and the 1980s emergence -- with Iranian aid -- of Lebanon 's Hizbullah prompted Tehran to form the axis of resistance comprising Hizbullah , Palestinian Hamas , Yemeni Houthis and Syria . Iran armed Hizbullah and provided billions of dollars for Lebanese reconstruction after the 1982 and 2006 wars with Israel . During the 1990s Iran also trained and armed Hamas and , when Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates attacked Yemen in 2015 , provided the Houthis with weapons . <p> After unrest erupted in Syria during the 2011 Arab Spring , Iran 's Revolutionary Guards Quds force commander Qassem Soleimani advised the Syrian military and provided logistical support , weapons and ground forces to contain and confine opposition factions in Syria 's northwest Idlib province . Former al-Qaeda offshoot Jabhat al-Nusra , which had morphed into HTS , was based in Idlib and led the offensive against Assad . It has appointed an interim government to rule Syria . <p> Since its attack on Israel on October 7th , 2023 , Hamas has been crushed in Gaza . Hizbullah has been crippled in Lebanon while the overthrow of Assad has put Syria out of action . The marginal Houthis are the only survivors of the axis of resistance , which had accorded Iran regional political influence and military outreach after its clerics failed to export their Shia revolution to the Sunni Arab heartland . <p> While Israel and the US have benefited from the fall of the axis of resistance , Israel 's anti-Palestinian policies have promoted reconciliation between Iran and Saudi Arabia , the region 's trend setter . This began in March 2023 , when China brokered rapprochement between Tehran and Riyadh after seven years of estrangement . It boosted existing ties between the Gulf and Iran .
