<p> There are moments when a confluence of unforeseen events can present either extraordinary opportunity or unmitigated failure , depending on the response . At such times , diplomacy can be the difference between success and disaster . <p> Such periods often coincide with great upheaval and uncertainty . The space created by the shifting ground can make way for either new bridges or deeper chasms . <p> The overthrow of the Assad regime in the Middle East has come as a shock , but many , including Nato secretary general Mark Rutte , have voiced cautious optimism that there is potential for a peaceful transition of power and an inclusive , Syrian-led political process . <p> The ignominious flight of the dictator from Damas ? cus has opened up new avenues . The hope for the country 's long-suffering population is that the end of the nightmare is at hand . This will be conditional on the rebel leaders upholding the rule of law and protecting civilians . <p> Russia and Iran have much to answer for in endorsing and supporting the reign of terror . <p> Assad 's tyranny created the world 's greatest refugee crisis , with nearly six million displaced Syrians living in neighbouring countries . Europe hosts one million , mostly in Germany , while Turkey has become home to three million . All are owed a chance to return to their homeland , but as we saw in Iraq , Libya and Afghanistan , charting the course of events after the toppling of regimes is nigh on impossible . <p> We should never forget that more than 500,000 people have died since the outbreak of civil war in Syria in 2011 . Nowhere needs a success story more than the Middle East . News that White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan will visit Israel this week for talks on Syria -- but also to push efforts to broker a Gaza ceasefire deal -- suggests a breakthrough is possible . Stabilising the region is essential for global peace . <p> Meanwhile , the second coming of Donald Trump to the White House is also concentrating hearts and minds and galvanising intentions . <p> He has put the world on notice that " America first " means just that . The message has been heard in Kyiv , where president Volodymyr Zelensky has set out his stall for a possible settlement to Russia 's war . He has suggested allowing foreign troops being deployed in his country until it could join Nato . Trump has called on China to exert its influence to " end the madness " . <p> The fall of Assad is a hammer blow to Russian president Vladimir Putin , who has lost what was a critical foothold in the Middle East . His Syria intervention had helped restore Russia 's standing after the Soviet Union 's collapse . With his hands full in Ukraine , he is hardly in a position to deploy troops to shore up his position . <p> In Ukraine and the Middle East , there is inertia . Deadlock eventually forces fresh thinking . Might shifting perspectives on Damascus also prompt new approaches in Moscow or Tel Aviv ? Eventually , force always has to yield .
