<p> " There has been a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced , " Martin said in a statement . <p> T ? naiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs Miche ? l Martin announced earlier that he has secured Government approval for Ireland to intervene in two cases currently before the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , at the Cabinet 's first meeting since the General Election . <p> The first of the cases is South Africa 's proceedings against Israel under the Genocide Convention . The case was initiated following the launch of military operations in Gaza after the 7 October 2023 attack . <p> " There has been a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced , " Martin said in a statement . <p> He added that Ireland would be asking the ICJ to broaden its interpretation of what constituted the commission of genocide by a State . <p> " We are concerned that a very narrow interpretation of what constitutes genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimised , " he continued . " Ireland 's view of the convention is broader and prioritises the protection of civilian life -- as a committed supporter of the convention , the Government will promote that interpretation in its intervention in this case " . <h> Advertisement <p> The second case is that of The Gambia against Myanmar . Ireland will intervene in The Gambia 's case at the ICJ under the 1948 Genocide Convention over operations by Myanmar 's armed forces against the ethnic minority Rohingya people . The case was brought forward by The Republic of The Gambia in 2019 . <p> Taoiseach Simon Harris said that a decision today at Cabinet would enable the Government to formally make a submission to the ICJ . <p> Speaking about government formation , the T ? naiste said the deputy leaders met last evening , including members from Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael , and had " a good , positive engagement , mapping out the structure of the talks , talking about each departmental area , each area of policy , and I would hope they can get substantive work done before Christmas " . <p> When asked whether a government would be formed before the upcoming Trump presidency in the US , he acknowledged that there was a sense of urgency to form a government following the General Election . He also stated that when the D ? il reconvenes in the New Year , it will be prepared for the election of a Taoiseach .
