<p> Following the release of his acclaimed new album , Hold Your Joy -- and in the run-up to his six-night run of December shows at Vicar Street -- Damien Dempsey sits down to discuss ' sacred ' singsongs , meditation , loss , Palestine , his socialist roots , the need for a left-wing coalition , the Catholic Church , and online misinformation . <p> " I 've stayed on my own a lot of my life , " Damien Dempsey reflects . " I 've been a loner , you know ? So I 've just been watching , and observing , everything . Trying to work out life -- and trying to work out ways to deal with modern-day traumas . " <p> What 's been gleaned and gathered from those lifelong observations will be familiar to anyone who has connected with the soulful pulse of the Donaghmede singer-songwriter 's music over the past 25 years or so -- from deep ruminations on mindfulness , pre-Christian wisdom , and mental health , to rousing lyrics about the state of the nation , and our shared social history . <p> On paper , it 's far from the kind of material that you 'd imagine would fuel a successful career in a ruthlessly fast-moving , trend-driven music industry -- particularly in the Celtic Tiger years , when he first emerged . But for many of his loyal fans , therein lies the appeal -- with that unapologetic authenticity and disarming sincerity powering Damien to three No.1s on the Irish Albums Chart , countless sold-out shows , and a reputation as not only one of the country 's most beloved and uncompromising artists , but a crucial influence on an entire genre-transcending generation of homegrown acts . <p> The album finds Damien carrying on the creative kinship that 's been central to his approach since 2003 's Seize The Day , with his close collaborator John Reynolds , a producer also well-known for his vital , longtime ties to Sin ? ad O'Connor . It arrives seven years after Soulsun , Damo 's last album of new music -- a gap he puts down to both lockdown and John 's move from Kilburn in London to Enniskerry , Co . Wicklow , in the midst of Brexit . <p> " That took a good chunk out of our time , " Damien explains . " But he got to Wicklow , and he has this great studio there now . Most of his bones are here in Ireland -- all his people . So he felt this ' coming home ' thing , and that flowed into the album . <p> " He was saying , ' Let 's try and do a softer album -- and bring out the sweetness and tenderness in your voice , ' " he continues . " We 'd been wanting to do that for a while . In the Abbey for Tales From The Holywell I was able to pull it right back , and just have this nice soft , sweet voice . My da had that voice as well . I ca n't really use it in a lot of the shows I do , because people would n't hear it ! But we 've finally done it on this album . " <p> For Damien , Hold Your Joy is primarily about " healing " . <p> " I 'm just putting down what I 've learned , from travelling the world , talking to wise people , and listening , " he tells me , calling into Hot Press in the days running up to the release . " And what I 've learned from being alive for nearly half a century . <h> Advertisement <p> " There 's solutions in it , I think , to modern-day problems , " he adds . " It 's going to be an album that helps people , if they open their hearts to it . " <p> In his music , Damien has always been open about his own experiences with what he refers to in conversation as " the darkness in the head " -- or , as he describes it on Hold Your Joy 's ' Push Through The Blue ' , his " one greatest enemy " that 's " dwelling inside " of him . But recent years have also seen him contending with immense loss -- in both his personal life , with the deaths of his father and uncle within a month of each other , and in the Irish music community , with friends and collaborators Sin ? ad O'Connor , Shane MacGowan , S ? amus Begley and Christy Dignam having all passed last year . <p> One way he 's attempted to make sense of it all , is by embracing spirituality . <p> " I 've been getting nudges all my life , " he says . " Lots of different things have happened to me -- things you ca n't explain . I 've finally stopped disregarding them , and saying ' coincidence ' . I believe them now . " <p> One of these profound experiences coincided with the death of his father Frank in November 2021 . <p> " He had learned a song , ' Time To Say Goodbye ' , to sing to his partner , Eta , " he recalls now . " When we were cleaning out the house after he passed , we found out that he had learned the Italian , phonetically , and then he 'd sing the chorus in English . <p> " And that 's the song he died to , " Damien continues . " The next day , I was down the pub , writing the eulogy , and this woman at the bar -- I later found out she was Italian -- just burst into song , around nine o'clock on a Monday night . And started singing that song . " <h> Advertisement <p> The woman -- one of the Macari family , who ran the chipper beside the pub -- was later surprised to learn that her part in this story was being discussed on the Abbey stage , as part of Tales From The Holywell . <p> " She only comes back to Ireland every six months or so , " Damien says . " She could n't believe she was being spoken about in a play , so I told her , if it 's on again , I 'd get her tickets . I asked her if she 'd sing often , and she said , ' No , I never sing in public . Something just came over me , to sing that song . ' <p> " There 's been lots of things like that that have happened to me , " he adds . " It 's like they 're telling me to keep the faith -- or at least keep an open mind . Do n't be saying this is all there is , because it 's not . It 's really not . " <p> The " loss of spirituality in the western world " is a big concern of Damien 's -- particularly in Ireland , where he feels we 've gone from being a " very spiritual people " , to a population who largely " do n't believe in anything anymore . " <p> " Atheism is not for Irish people , or any people , I do n't think , " he states . " We 're all like living ghosts walking around . What holds up this meat suit ? ! " <p> While Hold Your Joy delves whole-heartedly into spirituality , the track ' Louise ' also addresses the role the Church has played in oppressing Irish women . <h> Advertisement <p> " The Roman Catholic Empire , as I call it , has pushed a lot of people away from spirituality , " Damien nods . " Some of the things they 've done to the Irish people have been the total opposite of what Christianity should be . The women in the song ' Louise ' are true Christians . They really practised Christianity : ' do unto others as you 'd have them do unto you ' . The Roman Catholic Empire did n't . " <p> The inspiration behind the track , he tells me , came from his grandmother in Cabra West , and the other women in the community . <p> " Some of them had 10 , 15 , 20 children , " he recalls . " They were the strongest people I 've ever seen in my life . To be able to have all those children -- and try to clothe and feed them with feck-all money -- was unreal . And they 'd still be slagging , but they 'd also give you the shirt off their back . They were queens , they really were . <p> " And they did n't all want to have all these children , " he continues . " My grandmother went to the local priest , after having twins -- which made it eight children . She said , ' Father , I ca n't have any more kids . ' And the priest -- in his nice house , with his maid there , and everything looked after for him -- said , ' Go home , and give your husband as many children as he wants . ' " <p> It 's a story that continues to enrage him . <p> " You should never give people that much power over other people , " he asserts . " It was like the Dark Ages -- with contraception , divorce , homosexuality and abortion all illegal . And that was even when I was young . So we 're only coming out of the Dark Ages now , really . " <p> Although he points out there are " still great people in the church " -- like Sister Stan , whose recently released book Gratitude he contributed to -- Damien thinks that it 's crucial we " cut ties with Rome " . <h> Advertisement <p> " Let priests marry , " he says . " Let women be priests . Let women marry women and men marry men in the priesthood . Bring traditional Irish music into the church , and sean-n ? s singing , and dancing . Make it a big sober session on a Sunday -- a celebration . And get people back in . Because the vacuum is not good . " <p> Damien Dempsey by Miguel Ruiz <p> He also feels that Ireland needs " a big day of mourning and grieving " , in order to deal with its trauma . <p> " My family are very badly traumatised , " he reflects . " My granda was in Letterfrack industrial school , and I had an uncle in Daingean industrial school . And I had a cousin in a Mother and Baby Home . We were badly mistreated by that empire . But we were sandwiched between two empires : the British Empire and the Roman Catholic Empire . <p> " So we need a national day of grieving and mourning , " he continues . " Go to a river or a lake , or down to the sea , and remember all our people who suffered under those empires . Say a prayer for them , and thank them for their strength . Talk about it , face it , and forgive it . Then we can move on better , into the future . " <h> Advertisement <p> Damien sees a direct line between that unaddressed trauma and many of the social problems that crop up across his discography -- including , on ' Devil 's Dandruff ' , the grip cocaine continues to have on this country . <p> " The alcoholism , and the drug addiction , and the violence -- it 's all connected , " he posits . " We have a big problem with addiction , all around the country . And if something 's messing up your life , you have to step back and think about it . " <p> During his own mental health struggles in his younger years , he says that discovering meditation was a life-changing experience . <p> " My mother was very forward-thinking , " he says . " She 's from a little house in Cabra West , but she got into yoga and meditation in the ' 70s . Her head was n't right herself , so she was searching for something to help -- and she found this . <p> " So , when I was struggling , I asked her , and she reached out and put me onto it , " he continues . " And I think it saved my life . " <p> But meditation and gratitude , he says , are like " playing the guitar -- you have to practise . " <p> " People try it for a week , and if it does n't happen for them , they say , ' Ah , that 's not working . ' " he notes . " It 's not going to work after a week . You have to keep doing it . I was desperate , so I kept doing it until something clicked . It was only about a minute , where the racing thoughts in my mind just stopped , and the fucking light shone in . And I could feel my soul . <h> Advertisement <p> " I 'd tell people about it , and they 'd be calling me a headcase and a weirdo , " he smiles . " But I did n't mind . " <p> Although mindfulness has clearly played a role in shaping him into the artist he is today , Damien feels that the sense of compassion that defines his songwriting has even deeper roots . <p> " I had an aunty , Jennie Shanahan , who was with James Connolly in the Irish Citizen 's Army , " he tells me . " They were socialists , probably even more than they were republicans . They wanted a fairer island for everyone -- for the working people . So that 's rooted in me , coming from her . " <p> He articulates his own political stance in no uncertain terms on one of Hold Your Joy 's stand-out songs , ' Landlords in The Government ' , which -- while channelling the spirit of his searing 2003 track ' Celtic Tiger ' -- features the timely refrain : " Vote them out , for the first time in the history of this State ... " <p> " I 'd just love to see someone else get in , instead of Fianna F ? il/Fine Gael , perpetually , forever , " he reflects -- speaking ahead of the General Election . " I do n't care what they say -- when working people in a rich country ca n't afford a home , it 's a load of bollix . We need someone else to have a go . If you do n't like them , vote them out -- but let 's not just have Fianna F ? il/Fine Gael forever . At least if Fianna F ? il and Fine were voted out , they 'd have to then regroup and readjust , and maybe come back better . <p> " We just need a bit of change , " he continues . " A left-wing coalition , I think , is the only way at the moment . Let 's give it a go anyway . " <h> Advertisement <p> The track ' Born To Love ' , meanwhile , asks : " If your god is so great , why does he condone your hate / For fellow humans in states of fear and brutality ? " -- before going on to note that " abominable crimes from colonial times are still poisoning minds . " They 're lyrics that feel particularly relevant in the context of Israel and Palestine -- an issue Damien has been outspoken about , while supporting the people of Gaza through fundraiser gigs . <p> " With the Balfour Declaration , the British were giving someone else 's land away , " he says . " Saying , ' Here , take that land there . Do n't mind the Palestinians . ' Now we can see the hatred that they 've caused by doing these things -- a traumatised people who 've gone in there now , taking their trauma out on these people . And there 's so many Jewish people totally against this , but we do n't get to hear their voices . <p> " It 's a crazy fucking situation , " he continues . " There 's people from New York going over there and smashing down homes , and building their own homes on top of them . America are backing it all up , and the Irish government are letting armaments through Ireland . It 's sickening , and it 's hard to know what to do , except keep our solidarity -- and shame them . " <p> Damien has been encouraged to see Irish musicians leading the charge internationally when it comes to using their platforms to express solidarity with the people of Palestine . That movement -- in which knowledge of a shared history of oppression plays a major role -- has also coincided with more and more acts , spanning multiple genres , embracing their Irishness as a crucial part of their artistic identity . <p> " It 's a beautiful resurgence , is n't it ? " Damien smiles . " I caught the end of the ballad boom . All the great bands flourished in the late ' 60s and ' 70s , and it sort of fizzled out in the ' 80s , just as I was getting into the music . Then the rave scene came , and all the boy bands -- and I was going , ' What the fuck ... ? ' <p> " So to see it flourishing again -- the love of our past and our tradition -- and young people breathing new life into it , is incredible . It 's making me so happy . " <p> Speaking to Hot Press at the Kneecap film premiere in Dublin earlier this year , Damien revealed that the hip-hop trio had inspired him to dive back into the Irish language . <h> Advertisement <p> " I 'm accumulating lots more words , and using whatever bits of Gaeilge I have -- seasoning my Bearla with a bit of Gaeilge , " he laughs . " Some day when I have the time I 'm going to go down to the Gaeltacht , and get a proper whack at it . But the bits I have , I cherish . <p> " There was a barrier there , and the Kneecap lads have smashed that barrier somehow , " he adds . " And they 've broken down that snobbery that sometimes came with the Gaeilge . They 've made kids , and everyone , want to learn more . That 's dra ? ocht -- it 's magical what they 've done . " <p> He pays tribute to another contemporary Irish hero on the Hold Your Joy track ' James McClean ' -- saluting the Derry-born footballer 's refusal to wear a poppy on the pitch , and his bravery in the face of abuse from the stands . " I heard about the sectarianism and the hatred he was getting out there in England , competing with the best , " he reflects . " And I love his stance . Anybody who stands up for what they believe in , and takes the flack for it -- all the bullshit and hatred -- I have respect for . Meas m ? r to aul James . " <p> Of course , hatred also appears to be on the rise on this side of the Irish Sea . A year on from the Dublin riots -- and following months of anti-immigration rhetoric and arson attacks -- Damien is concerned that " there 's a lot of people being indoctrinated online , by different ideologies . " <p> " I 'd love for people to come off social media , and just think for themselves , " he remarks . " I remember in the old days , when the buses would n't be on time , you 'd be standing there at the bus stop for an hour sometimes -- just contemplating things , and thinking . Now the phone seems to think for people . <h> Advertisement <p> " And people are being led , " he continues . " They 're saying that other people are being led , but they 're being led -- because the phone tells them what to think . We can all be so impressionable -- even myself . If someone says something with conviction on a podcast , sometimes you can just fall for it hook , line and sinker -- instead of researching it , and asking yourself , ' What do I really think about that ? ' You need to work life out for yourself -- and not be told how to do that by your phone or by podcasts . " <p> " I want to get my mother , and my uncle , singing on it , and a few of my old friends playing on it , " he tells me . " There 's some beautiful old songs that I 'd love to get to the young people . <p> " I 've a lot of young fans , " he continues . " They 've no fucking choice , God love them -- it 's the parents ! But my lyrics are n't very flashy or abstract -- they 're direct , like the old ballads -- so they 're accessible for young people . And I know if I do this traditional album , these young kids will be singing the songs , and they 'll be passed on . " <p> To Damien , " the singsong is a sacred link to our Gaelic past " -- and as such , is a tradition that we all need to play a role in keeping alive . <h> Advertisement <p> " When you sing , you ca n't think of the past or the future , " he reflects . " You just have to be there , right in the moment -- because you have to remember the next line , and try to stay in time , and nearly in key . Communal singing is one of the best things you can ever do . <p> " I 've tried to bring that to the stage , and make any venue I go to like a big singsong -- because there 's fierce healing in a singsong. "
