<p> " The indiscriminate bombardment of people , buildings , infrastructure , farming land , water sources and even aid convoys by Israel is a deliberate campaign of genocide . " <p> Here we are at the butt-end of a brutal year . Does the language exist to describe just how appalling it has been , watching the world slip towards the abyss , any collective moral compass we might have imagined existed in the past now consigned to the rapidly overflowing , shit-filled dustbin of history ? <p> Is appalling a word adequate to describe the doomsday hour that is upon us ? What about disillusioning ? Or dispiriting ? <h> Advertisement <p> It is fucking heartbreaking . <p> In fact it is all of those feelings , skittering one after the other , like a downpour in a gale force wind , across the window of the soul and deep into the wounded psyche . How can we maintain a semblance of happiness and joy when it has become inescapably , abundantly clear that the world is ruled and run and largely owned by thugs ; and that people are being butchered mercilessly by the day , by the hour , by the minute ? When any pretence at caring about human life -- about women , children , babies even -- has been stripped away , thrown onto the pyre , incinerated . <p> Burnt alive . Like thousands of children in Gaza . <p> When the aim is to destroy , disfigure and maim permanently anyone you fail to murder but still want , despicably , to monster . <p> Colour Of The Blood <p> Anybody and everybody with a scintilla of intelligence , honesty and integrity knows that the indiscriminate bombardment of people , buildings , infrastructure , farming land , water sources and even aid convoys by Israel is a deliberate campaign of genocide . <p> -- They know that the decision was made by the Israeli war cabinet to create the conditions in which famine was inevitable : to starve Palestinians in Gaza so that more than ever should have been contemplated , or allowed , would die of illness or malnutrition or both if they could n't somehow crawl to the border and find a way of leaving , forever . This is what the Israeli government and army want . Ethnic cleansing . It is not what Jewish people want . Many Jews across the world , and some in Israel , are sickened and traumatised by what they see happening . " Not in our name , " they say . But they are a minority , scorned and abused as anti-semites and traitors . It would be farcical if it were n't so poisonous , so deadly . <h> Advertisement <p> They know that the citizens of Gaza have been shunted up and down and round and round , like so much disposable debris being brushed hither and thither with a barbed-wire broom , till they are tired , wounded , desperate and degraded . But never degraded enough for the monsters that are calling the shots . Degradation is heaped on misery and misery on degradation . No torture is extreme enough for the heartless brutes led by Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> And powerful people , who might have changed things , who could have brought the catastrophic , fire and brimstone zealotry , the barbarous full-frontal God-driven assault that has killed 45,000 people that we know of in Gaza -- 70% of them women and children -- and wounded hundreds of thousands more , stood idly by and watched and let it all happen even though their own children , and their grandchildren , could watch it all in disbelief on their phones , often in real time . An entire region bombed into the dust . <p> So what ? says the President of the United States of America . <p> Do you like the colour of the blood on your hands , Joe Biden ? Is your middle name Kilgore ? Do you love the smell of napalm in the morning ? Could it be that you take just a small bit of pleasure in seeing the people of Gaza scream in horror as they watch the buildings in which they lived , and loved , and learned , and prayed , and were healed , being turned into dust , so that the whole place is a ruined , uninhabitable testament to the complete immorality of an arms industry that is out of control -- and from which , by the way , some of your friends are also making vast sums of blood money ? Or is it just about the millions of dollars that have been poured into your coffers along the way by pro-Zionist interests who knew that some version of this scenario was coming , and for whom compromising you was always top of the agenda ? <p> Or does it really give you not just a little but a lot of pleasure ? Are you genuinely as sick as you now look to an objective observer ? <p> President Joe Biden addresses the nation from the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , Wednesday , July 24 , 2024 , about his decision to drop his Democratic presidential reelection bid . ( AP Photo/Evan Vucci , Pool ) <h> Advertisement <p> Zionist Creed <p> And what about you , Olaf Scholz ? How do you look in the mirror , knowing that you have been -- that you are -- complicit in butchering 45,000 Palestinians ? Is the guilt you carry , as a German , for the extermination -- by the terminally twisted and , yes , iredeemably , violently anti-semitic leaders of the Third Reich -- of six million Jews in World War II , such that the state of Israel can , in 2024 , with complete impunity , mimic the tactics of which you are so ashamed , in a brazen campaign of extermination of Palestinians ? <p> Or you , Keir Starmer ? Your silence is deafening . <p> I could go on and on and on -- and on . How many leaders of supposedly liberal , democratic countries that pose as paragons of human rights , justice and equality have spoken out openly and unequivocally against Israel 's genocidal campaign ? <p> Far too few . <p> Spare me the legalistic bullshit that we hear about the subtle differences of interpretation , or shading of intent , or technical distinctions , that might make the Israeli onslaught fractionally less than officially , undeniably , monstrously genocidal . <p> It is just that : officially , undeniably , monstrously genocidal . Israel is an apartheid state . Like Afghanistan or Iran , it is run by nakedly supremacist religious fanatics . But these ones have bigger bombs , an excess of illegally intrusive surveillance , a more savage , triumphalist army and a far greater presumption of their own superiority , and of their religion-based entitlement to rob , pillage , slaughter and subjugate . <h> Advertisement <p> Israel is , and has been for years , engaged in an ongoing campaign of land theft that is now more overtly enforced by the army and the civil administration than ever before . Morality does n't come into it . Nor legality . It is all about power and the ruthlessness needed to exercise it viciously and aggressively at every turn . The state of Israel has proven adept at that . See no evil , hear no evil . Stay focussed . Shoot them on sight . Kill as many as you can every time . <p> They are vermin , the thinking goes . The faster we dispose of them the better . This is the Zionist creed . <p> September 2024Photo : UN Women/Suleiman Hajji <p> Cheerful Thought <p> I wish I could posit that karma will catch up on them , that their time will come to an end , that justice will hunt them down . But I do not believe that . What has been shown , in different ways , again and again , over the past many years is that money decides every time . Money and mutual , conniving vested interests . <p> The United Nations was a great idea , but it is paralysed into irrelevance by the ability of permanent members of the Security Council to veto resolutions that they do n't like . The US has done this again and again for Israel . Russia has done it too for its allies . And , of course , on its own behalf , in relation to the war Putin launched illegally against Ukraine -- at a terrible ongoing cost in Russian lives . <h> Advertisement <p> America applauds the International Criminal Court when it acts against countries or individuals that oppose US hegemony , and abuse it when it accuses Israel of war crimes . Hypocrisy rules . And into that mix , the American public has thrown Donald Trump as the next President of the United States of America . He will betray Ukraine . Give Israel the go-ahead to steal more land , to turn Gaza into a theme park . <p> He will attack his rivals at home . Stifle independent media . Pack the courts . Do everything he can to establish an authortarian dynasty . And give two fingers to any attempt to address the climate crisis . <p> It 's going to be a rough ride . <p> Here in Hot Press , meanwhile , we 've just published Power To The People : The Hot Press Years , by Michael D. Higgins . Based on the columns the future President wrote for us from 1983 to 1993 , it is an exceptional , inspiring work , written with great foresight and vision , so that it resonates powerfully now . -- <p> Looking back to that era , there were times when all hope seemed to be lost . Even in Ireland , loyalist paramilitaries and Republicans alike were so intent on murder and mayhem that Ireland genuinely felt like it was up shit creek . But we survived . <p> Maybe the same will be true now -- and in ten years time , we will look back and wonder what the fuss was about . On the other hand , Donald Trump may just blow the whole enterprise to kingdom come . <p> Now there 's a cheerful thought to evoke the Christmas spirit . Let 's do our best to keep the flame of humanitarianism alive . It 'll be a tough battle -- but there is nothing else for it . The fight for freedom , jusice , human rights and equality must go on , with renewed energy , discipline , resourcefulness and conviction .
