<p> The unprecedented decision by Romania 's constitutional court last week to annul the first-round victory of far-right firebrand Calin Georgescu marked the latest , startling turn in a series of eastern European elections over which Vladimir Putin has cast a dangerous shadow . <p> Moscow 's well-resourced attempts to sway elections are elements of what more European Union leaders are now describing as an undeclared , unacknowledged " hybrid war " against the West . <p> The attacks range from sabotage , to assassinations , parcel bombs , cyber attacks , electoral interference , social-media disinformation campaigns and the testing of military preparedness . Their MOs and links to identifiable Russian sources are evidence , it is argued , of systematic co-ordination and hostile intent . <p> " We are simply too polite , " Danish prime minister Mette Frederiksen said on the sidelines of a Nato summit of the attacks . " They are attacking us every day now . " <p> Even " neutral " Ireland has been touched -- last month ahead of mysterious sabotage of underwater cables in the Baltic , the navy escorted Russian spy ship the Yantar out of territorial waters away from critical energy and internet pipelines and cables <p> Determined to sow dissent in the EU and accession states , most particularly to undermine support for Ukraine , Russia massively stepped up its long-running social-media disinformation campaigns to back proxy candidates and bribe voters in three former Soviet states . These states are regarded in Moscow as its " near abroad " sphere of influence : impoverished Moldova , Georgia , both EU applicants , and member-state Romania . It had some success in Georgia and Romania , although a determined fightback means the battle is yet far from decided . <p> In Moldova last month , pro-EU president Maia Sandu narrowly won re-election after a campaign which , the police say , saw more than $15 million in Russian funds deposited in the bank accounts of more than 130,000 Moldovans . In Georgia 's election -- fraudulent , according to EU and OSCE observers - irregularities included vote-buying , multi-voting and extensive Russian disinformation . Pro-Moscow Georgian Dream 's narrow victory saw the opposition walk out of parliament , but nightly protests have brought tens of thousands to the streets of Tbilisi and other cities demanding a re-ballot . President Salome Zurabishvili , an opposition supporter , has branded the election a " Russian special operation " , an ironic nod to the Kremlin 's euphemism for its Ukraine " non-war " . <p> According to intelligence reports , $381,000 was spent to promote Georgescu on some 25,000 TikTok accounts without being marked as campaigning material as required both by TikTok 's own rules and Romanian election law <p> In Romania last week , the publication by the country 's intelligence service of detailed evidence of election manipulation led the constitutional court to suspend the second round of balloting . <p> The campaign of little-known ultranationalist Georgescu , a pro-Russia firebrand and Nato/EU sceptic ( and moon landing denier ) , exploded on the social-media platform TikTok just two weeks prior to the election . He led the first round with 23 per cent and was set to face off against Liberal Elena Lasconi last Sunday . The new election is yet to be scheduled . <p> According to the intelligence reports , $381,000 was spent to promote Georgescu on some 25,000 TikTok accounts without being marked as campaigning material as required both by TikTok 's own rules and Romanian election law . <p> A group created on the Telegram messaging app was allegedly also used to co-ordinate the campaign with messages including advice on how to mislead TikTok 's content verification system , for instance , by recording screens and changing content so the platform perceives it as original content . <p> Paid influencers , along with members of extremist , right-wing groups and organised crime figures promoted Georgescu online . These influencers , who failed to disclose such payments in line with election law , are alleged to have earned about ? 80 per post for every 20,000 followers they had . <p> Last week the European Commission , using its new social-media laws , ordered TikTok to " freeze and preserve data " for investigation . Under the EU 's Digital Services Act the largest social-media companies can face fines of up to 6 per cent of global turnover if platforms fail to act against foreign interference , and the commission has previously sued both X and Meta over inadequate monitoring and mitigation of election interference online . <p> European nations have witnessed a spate of disinformation attacks . Among them : before June 's European elections , co-ordinated attempts on social media to share targeted pro-Russian , anti-vaccine and anti-LGBTQ campaigns ; fake reports in Poland that Poles would be drafted to fight in Ukraine ; an anti-Semitic graffiti campaign using star of David stencils across Paris in an attempt to foster divisions over the Gaza war . <p> Dutch research institute Trollrensics reports that a large disinformation campaign in Germany , exploiting concerns over migration and security , promoted and shared content in favour of the far-right Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) and against supplying arms to Ukraine . <p> In Lithuania , Moscow used disinformation to undermine the deployment of a German army brigade , part of a Nato effort to shore up its eastern flank , with claims that German soldiers raped women and wanted to occupy Lithuania . <p> Moscow 's fingerprints are everywhere . The second front in its Ukrainian war is a concerted assault on European democracy , which we would do well not to take lightly .
