<h> Lismore clergyman hangs peace dove for those devastated by war <p> The Very Rev Paul Draper , Church of Ireland Rector of Lismore and Dean of St Carthage 's Cathedral , is hanging a dove of peace on his Christmas tree this festive season in solidarity with all those whose lives have been devastated by war . <p> A Lismore clergyman is hanging a ' dove of peace ' on his Christmas tree this festive season to draw attention to the humanitarian crises caused by conflicts around the world and the efforts of Christian Aid to support those most in need . <p> The Very Rev Paul Draper , Church of Ireland Rector of Lismore and Dean of St Carthage 's Cathedral , is hanging the peace symbol on his Christmas tree this year to show his solidarity with all those whose lives have been devastated by war across the world , including people in Gaza and those who have fled civil war in Sudan . <p> Dean Paul supports Christian Aid through his ministry by organising fundraising events and encouraging his congregation to donate to the charity . He also serves on the charity 's board of trustees . <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience . We 'll assume you 're ok with this , but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptRead More <p> Privacy &amp; Cookies Policy <h> Privacy Overview <p> This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website . Out of these , the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website . We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website . These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent . You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies . But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience . <p> Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly . This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website . These cookies do not store any personal information . <p> Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics , ads , other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies . It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
