<h> Ennis Book Club 2025 Festival Early Bird Events <p> Ennis Book Club Festival has announced announce an early bird ticket offer for a selection of key events at Festival 2025 , taking place from Friday 7th -- Sunday 9th March at various venues throughout the town and county . <p> The 2025 Festival will offer a vibrant programme of live events and activities for book lovers of all ages , opportunities to engage with your favourite authors and this year , a great Christmas present for the readers in your life ! <p> O'Hagan 's ambitious novel , Caledonian Road takes us on a picaresque journey through a city and a life . Born in Glasgow , O'Hagan has been nominated for the Booker Prize and he won the E.M . Forster prize . Belfast writer Wendy Erskine whose new novel The Benefactors is due shortly , will explore the world of Caledonian Road with Andrew , in what promises to be a fascinating discussion . <p> Short stories have a distinctive place in the modern Irish literary tradition and in The Art of the Short Story , writers Cathy Sweeney ( Modern Times ) , Maggie Armstrong ( Old Romantics ) &amp; David Butler ( The Witch &amp; Other Stories ) will explore what makes the short story form so intriguing , in conversation with Olivia Fitzsimons . The winner of our short story competition will also read at this event . <p> In a headline Friday night event in gl ? r , Ann Cleeves will talk about her work with Brian McGilloway . Award-winning author of the Shetland , Vera and Two Rivers novels , Cleeves has written some of the most popular crime fiction of recent times . Her books have sold over 5 million copies , and she has had two crime series adapted for television ; Vera and Shetland are major dramas starring Brenda Blethyn and Douglas Henshall respectively . In this wide-ranging discussion with writer Brian McGilloway ( The Empty Room , The Last Crossing ) , Ann will explore the journey of her writing life so far . <p> Ten Books You Should Read is one of the most popular events of the festival , where audiences get to probe the minds of two guests and the books that inspire them . The 2025 Festival guests for this firm favourite is Ennis native actor and screenwriter , Mark O'Halloran ( Adam &amp; Paul and Viva ) , and Oliver Callan , the creative force behind Callan 's Kicks as well as presenter of the wide-ranging morning show Oliver Callan on RT ? Radio One . <p> Debut Novelists this year features Aim ? e Walsh , Patrick Holloway and Cathy Sweeney . <p> With her first novel , Exile , Aim ? e Walsh opens out a world of unsettling possibilities and haunted territories . In The Language of Remembering , Patrick Holloway takes on the charged subjects of home , memory and language in a tender exploration of how to remake an identity , whilst Cathy Sweeney 's debut novel Breakdown explores a woman rebelling against traditional roles and expectations . <p> In a very special event , the 2025 Festival will remember and celebrate the legendary Clare writer Edna O'Brien with a panel discussion featuring Andrew O'Hagan , Danielle McLaughlin and Eoin McNamee in conversation with Rachael English . O'Brien 's work provoked controversy and discussion over the years and though sometimes vilified , she remained completely steadfast to the cause of writing , her life 's work . Her wit and knowledge , beauty and talent as a writer will be explored and celebrated in this panel discussion by writers who loved her work and cherish the inestimable contribution she made to Irish literature . Early booking advised for this one . <p> EBCF is delighted to welcome Ian McEwan to the festival , to explore his many books and their themes . Known for the precision and clarity of his writing , McEwan 's work explores the turmoil of human interactions , class difference , family relationships and loss . McEwan won the Booker Prize with Amsterdam whilst his next novel , Atonement , garnered acclaim and was adapted into an Oscar-winning film . He will be in conversation with arts journalist and presenter of Arena , Se ? n Rocks , in a wide-ranging discussion , on Saturday 8th March in gl ? r . <p> And finally , The Sunday Symposium investigates the theme of international conflict in a globalised world . Writer Sally Hayden ( My Fourth Time We Drowned ) , photo-journalist Paulo Nunes dos Santos and professor of Middle East politics Vincent Durac will examine the charged subjects of peace &amp; war . In Gaza and Lebanon , Syria and Yemen , Iraq &amp; Afghanistan , and parts of the continent of Africa , conflict and territorial struggles are not just a threat to local populations but also have global impacts . In this discussion our guests will explore what this could mean for the coming years . <p> Tickets for eight key events will be available for sale from gl ? r Box Office and online from this Tuesday 10th December with 10% discount when five of the eight available events are booked . The offer closes on Saturday December 21st . <p> In 2007 a small group of local volunteers , in association with Clare County Library , identified the need for a new literary and social event to replace the demised Ennis October Arts Festival . Being members of a local Book Club the wish was to create a literary event that focused primarily on readers and book lovers . <p> The Ennis Book Club Festival aims to promote and celebrate reading . Each year , readers both from Ireland and further afield , come to Ennis to share the joy of reading . Audiences include avid readers , those who have n't had the time to pick up a book in some years , those with a keen interest in current affairs , those who are simply looking to be inspired . <h> news@clareherald.com <h> Popular Categories <p> To provide the best experiences , we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information . Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behaviour or unique IDs on this site . Not consenting or withdrawing consent , may adversely affect certain features and functions . <p> FunctionalFunctional Always active <p> The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user , or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network . <p> PreferencesPreferences <p> The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user . <p> StatisticsStatistics <p> The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes . Without a subpoena , voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider , or additional records from a third party , information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone can not usually be used to identify you . <p> MarketingMarketing <p> The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising , or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes .
