<h> Decades of brutal dictatorship in Syria came to a remarkably swift end when Bashar al-Assad fled to Moscow and opposition forces took control of Damascus <p> " Your turn is coming , Doctor , " said graffiti daubed on a wall in the old town in Daraa , southern Syria , by schoolboys in February 2011 . The rulers of Tunisia and Egypt had already fallen , the first victims of the Arab Spring . It took nearly 14 years for the schoolboys ' prophecy to come true for president Bashar al-Assad . <p> The boys were rounded up , beaten with electrical cables and had their fingernails torn off during interrogation . When their parents complained to the local police chief , a cousin of Assad , he insulted them with obscenities and sent them packing . By March 2011 , protests had spread across Syria . <p> Assad was known to his unfortunate subjects as " doctor " because he earned a degree in medicine in Damascus before going to London to specialise in ophthalmology in 1992 . The former meek-mannered computer geek was overthrown in the early hours of Sunday , December 8th , after presiding over the longest and most brutal of Arab civil wars , which claimed more than half a million lives and created 14 million internally displaced people and refugees . Assad imprisoned an estimated 130,000 Syrian citizens since 2011 , of whom 15,000 are believed to have died under torture . <p> Nizar Nayouf , a dissident who survived 10 years in Assad 's prisons , was disabled by torture on one of the regime 's favourite machines , the so-called " German chair " , allegedly invented by the Gestapo . " Anyone would prefer to die , " Nayouf told me , " because he knows he is going to be paralysed for life . " The metal chair has moving parts that pull the spinal cord apart . Victims can not breathe . Their vertebrae are fractured and they are often paralysed from the waist down . <p> Scenes this week of jubilation , toppled statues and relatives rushing to prisons were eerily reminiscent of Baghdad in April 2003 , when Saddam Hussein was brought down by the US-led invasion . Relatives used telephone flashlights to search for non-existent tunnels and basements , in the hope that disappeared loved ones might materialise like the missing imam of Shia Islam . <p> In the Assads ' mansion in Malki , the most affluent neighbourhood of Damascus , Islamist fighters and ordinary Syrians helped themselves to Louis Vuitton handbags , armchairs and chandeliers . Someone found a signed photograph of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , dating from Assad 's visit to Buckingham Palace in 2002 . Across the country , ubiquitous images of the dictator were torn down , torched and disfigured . <p> Decades of Baathist slogans vanished in an instant . As a frequent visitor to Syria between the early 1980s and mid-2000s , I witnessed countless chants of , " With our souls and with our blood we will sacrifice for you , Hafez ! " After the death of Assad p ? re in 2000 , his name was replaced with that of Bashar . <p> The conjunction of Vladimir Putin 's war against Ukraine and more than a year of Israeli attacks on Syria 's Arab and Iranian allies left Assad without protection . An estimated 700,000 Russians have been killed or wounded in Ukraine since 2022 . In its fury over the Hamas attacks of October 7th , 2023 , Israel has flattened much of Gaza and Lebanon and assassinated most of the leaders of Hamas and Hizbullah . Moscow and Tehran saved Bashar in the 2010s . They were no longer willing or able to do so . The unpaid and demoralised Syrian army melted away as Islamist rebels from the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group took Aleppo , Hama , Homs , then Damascus , in just 12 days . <p> Bashar and Asma al-Assad fled with their young adult offspring , Hafez , Zein and Karim , to Moscow , where they will probably live in Barvikha , a suburb that is home to a colony of deposed dictators , including the family of the late Serb leader Slobodan Milosevic and Askar Akayev of Kyrgyzstan . Viktor Yanukovych , the Putin puppet who was overthrown by Ukraine 's 2013/14 Maidan revolution , has also lived there . <p> A toppled statue of Hafez al-Assad , father of Bashar al-Assad , at Damascus University in Damascus , Syria . Photograph : Ali Haj Suleiman/Getty Images <p> Syrians pose for pictures at the site where a statue of late Syrian president Hafez al-Assad was destroyed , in the coastal city of Latakia . Photograph : Aaref Watad/AFP via Getty Images <p> The Assad saga began in the early 20th century , when Bashar 's paternal grandfather changed the family name from Wahhash , meaning savage or monster , to Assad -- lion . Bashar 's father Hafez was a poor boy who worked his way up to colonel in the Syrian air force . He helped lead the 1963 Baathist revolution , whose goal was to create a single , secular Arab nation . In a 1970 coup , Hafez seized the president 's office . <p> The Alawites are an offshoot of Shia Islam and comprise about 10 per cent of Syria 's population . They ruled over the majority Sunni by forging alliances with other minorities , mainly Christians and Druze . The Sunni majority never forgot the slaughter by Assad of tens of thousands of Sunni Muslim Brothers in Hama in 1982 . The Assads appointed token Sunnis , including Mustafa Tlass and Abdel Halim Khaddam , respectively defence minister and vice-president , as proof that theirs was not a sectarian regime . <p> I interviewed Hafez al-Assad in 1992 , with top editors from Time magazine . Assad 's staff kept us waiting several days , a standard Assad stratagem , like serving cup after cup of coffee or tea until his guests ' bladders were bursting . When we were finally ushered into a reception room in the presidential palace , the " lion of Damascus " , as Hafez liked to be called , talked for five hours . There was " no possibility of compromise " over the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights , Hafez told us . " Nobody in Syria could give one inch of land in the Golan . Every Syrian believes deep in his heart that whoever yields a part of his land is a traitor . " <p> Hafez doted on his eldest son Bassel , a handsome playboy who died after crashing his red Ferrari on his way to Damascus airport en route for a tryst with a mistress in Vienna early one morning in 1994 . <p> Hafez was devastated , but shifted his attention to Bashar , the less-loved second son , as heir apparent . Bashar was brought back from his ophthalmology studies in London , given the rank of army colonel and entrusted with responsibility for Lebanon , which was to Syria what Ukraine is to Russia , the coveted neighbouring state whose independence it contested . <p> When Hafez died in June 2000 , Syria 's constitution had to be amended to allow Bashar , then 34 , to assume the presidency . Western leaders , especially the British and French , were enthusiastic . Then French president Jacques Chirac took Bashar under his wing , gave him a state visit to Paris and decorated him with the highest rank in the L ? gion d'Honneur . <p> An opposition fighter steps on a broken bust of the late Syrian president Hafez Assad in Damascus following the downfall of the government of his son Bashar . Photograph : Hussein Malla/AP <p> Shortly after Hafez 's death , the British journalist Robert Fisk and I interviewed Bashar at the Baath Party conference that was about to declare him president of Syria . He was an ungainly creature , with protruding ears , a receding chin and a very long neck , which earned him the sobriquet Zarafa or giraffe . <p> In retrospect , Bashar al-Assad was the personification of Hanna Arendt 's term " the banality of evil " . He spoke English with a slight lisp , which accentuated the impression of a gawky young man out of place amid torturers and assassins . Syria had been stuck in a time warp for the 30 years of Hafez 's rule . Bashar said he wanted to modernise it . He gave Syria mobile telephones and access to the internet , albeit strictly controlled . His economic reforms , like those in Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union , consisted of privatising state-owned monopolies so they could be snapped up by relatives and cronies . <p> Bashar may have doubled down on brutality to compensate for an inferiority complex towards his dead brother Bassel . He is widely believed to have ordered the assassination of Chirac 's best friend in 2005 . The Lebanese construction magnate and former prime minister Rafik Hariri had joined forces with Chirac in the hope of freeing Lebanon from Syrian domination . <p> I interviewed Hariri the month before the Valentine 's Day massacre of Hariri and 21 other people in a suicide car-bombing . Bashar had threatened to " break Lebanon over his head " , Hariri told me . " You westerners are so naive , " Hariri continued . " Baa , I tell you , he is worse than his father . " <p> Bashar 's wife , Asma , n ? e Akhras , strengthened the illusion of westernised modernity . Born in London and a dual citizen of the UK and Syria , she studied computer science at King 's College , worked as a financial analyst for Morgan Stanley and abandoned plans to pursue an MBA at Harvard when she married Assad . Bashar and Asma hired public relations firms to improve an image tarnished by years of human rights reports on torture , arbitrary imprisonment and disappearances in Syria . <p> The couple 's PR campaign claimed the career of US journalist Joan Juliet Buck as collateral damage . On assignment for Vogue magazine , Buck travelled to Damascus in December 2010 to write a profile of Syria 's first lady , whom she described as " glamorous , young and very chic " . On the day Buck accompanied Asma to the Mediterranean port of Latakia , Mohamed Bouazizi , a 26-year-old Tunisian fruit vendor , self-immolated in protest at police brutality , sparking the series of revolts that came to be known as the Arab Spring . <p> Bashar al-Assad and his wife Asma cast their votes during presidential elections at a polling station in Damascus . Photograph : Sana via Reuters <p> Asma al-Assad was , Buck wrote later , " brisk as a prefect , as on-message as a banker , as friendly as a new acquaintance at a friend 's cocktail party . She sounded like the kind of young Englishwoman you 'd hear having lunch at the next table at Harvey Nichols . " <p> As the Arab Spring burgeoned into mass protests across Tunisia and Egypt , Buck had misgivings about the piece she had written for Vogue and asked editors to hold it . They refused , and entitled the profile A Rose in the Desert . Though the article was taken offline in May 2011 , Buck never lived it down . <p> As the civil war progressed , Syria 's economy nosedived . The Assads ' alliance with Syria 's business bourgeoisie floundered because Bashar and Asma took more and more for themselves . The couple prised the lucrative telephone company from Bashar 's cousin , Rami Makhlouf , who was said to be the richest man in Syria . Asma used her business acumen to manage the couple 's interests in the property , shipping and banking sectors . According to the Financial Times , Asma ran the Syria Trust NGO , which oversaw all foreign aid to Syria . Bashar 's brother Maher turned Syria into a narco-state that produces 80 per cent of world 's supply of the illicit amphetamine-like drug Captagon . <p> Three different countries bombed Syria on the day of Assad 's fall . Turkey , which has backed HTS , attacked Kurdish-held Manbij , north-eastern Syria , because the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) are allied with the Turkish Kurdistan Workers ' Party , PKK . The US -- Turkey 's Nato ally -- has deployed 900 troops alongside the SDF to protect it . <p> US bombing raids targeted remnants of the Islamic State or Isis , which maintains 2,500 fighters in central Syria . By doing so , the US made itself a de facto ally of HTS . <p> Over several days , Israel destroyed the Syrian navy and carried out more than 300 air strikes on Syrian airbases , weapons facilities and Assad 's chemical weapons research centre , ostensibly to prevent them falling into hostile hands . Arab countries protested when Israel also took advantage of the regime 's collapse to move into formerly Syrian-held positions on the Golan Heights , including the top of Jebel Sheikh ( Mount Hermon ) . <p> " DO NOT GET INVOLVED " said the message posted by president-elect Donald Trump on December 7th . But US policy towards post-Assad Syria is far from certain . During his previous term , in April 2018 , Trump joined France and the UK in cruise missile strikes against Bashar 's chemical weapons facilities , after the Syrian dictator used chemical weapons against the town of Douma . <p> As a Democratic congresswoman in 2017 , Tulsi Gabbard , whom Trump has selected to be director of national intelligence when he takes office next month , visited Bashar al-Assad in Damascus and said it was important to end " these wasteful regime-change wars " . Gabard later questioned whether Assad had indeed used chemical weapons . <p> HTS leader Abu Mohamed al-Jolani has promised to respect the rights of women and minorities and to co-operate with the remnants of the Assad regime . But like Iraq at the end of Saddam Hussein 's dictatorship , Syria comprises an explosive mix of Islamic fundamentalists , religious and ethnic minorities , a substantial Kurdish population who seek independence and unification across national boundaries , hydrocarbons and meddling foreign powers . <p> After 54 years of ruthless dictatorship , Syrians deserve a better future . But that is far from certain . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
