<p> The Washington DC-based lobby group , which bills itself as the world 's largest business organisation , was in Dublin for talks along with several US companies with Mr Burke , and also met Minister for Finance Jack Chambers and senior officials in the Department of Health . <p> During their talks with Mr Burke , the Department of Enterprise confirmed that it raised the legislation , which the outgoing government has indicated it will progress if returned to office . <p> A spokeswoman for the department said the discussion during the meeting covered a range of topics . <p> There has been speculation that Ireland 's stance on the Gaza war may prompt potential economic headwinds for the State , with many US multinationals invested here supportive of Israel . <p> The legislation , which was introduced by Independent Senator Frances Black in 2018 , had lain dormant for years despite passing various stages in the Oireachtas , after previous attorneys general advised that the Bill was contrary to European Union trade law . <p> Following an advisory opinion issued by the International Court of Justice , the outgoing coalition sought fresh legal advice on the stalled Bill as the opinion created a " new context " for it , after the UN court found Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem in breach of international law in a non-binding advisory opinion . <p> It also found that Israel 's occupation of these territories amounts to long-term annexation and has undermined the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination . Israel 's ambassador to Ireland , Dana Erlich , said on Monday that if the legislation was enacted , no US companies would be able to operate in Ireland . She was speaking after the Israeli government said it would shut its embassy in Dublin . <p> Ms Erlich told RT ? news that Ireland was an " extreme voice " in the international arena , saying no other country had matched Ireland 's stance over the Israeli assault on Gaza . <p> Earlier on Monday , both Taoiseach Simon Harris and T ? naiste Miche ? l Martin defended Ireland . Mr Harris accused Israel of using it as a ploy to distract attention from the thousands of children killed by its armed forces . <p> " I think we should be very careful in not falling for what I believe are distractions by the Israeli government . It is deeply regrettable that it decided to shut its embassy . I do n't in any way minimise that decision , but it 's nothing in comparison to what 's happening in the Middle East , absolutely nothing , " he said . <p> In Brussels , Mr Martin denied the Government had been acting in a " hostile " way to Israel in seeking to hold it to account for its actions in its war in Gaza . <p> The Fianna F ? il leader said Ireland 's intervention at the International Court of Justice and its previous recognition of the state of Palestine had been motivated by " respect for international humanitarian law " . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
