<h> Irish government accused by Israel 's foreign minister of ' antisemitic rhetoric ' <h> Gideon Saar blamed the " actions , double standards , and antisemitic rhetoric of the Irish government against Israel " , which he added " are rooted in efforts to delegitimise and demonise the Jewish state " <p> Taoiseach Simon Harris speaking to the media at the opening of the National Pelvic Floor Centre in south Dublin . Mr Harris has said Ireland will not be silenced about its views on Israel 's war on Gaza , after Israel said it will close its Dublin embassy . Picture date : Monday December 16 , 2024 ( Image : Cate McCurry/PA Wire ) <h> Get the latest Irish Mirror breaking news on WhatsApp <p> Our community members are treated to special offers , promotions and adverts from us and our partners . You can check out at any time . More info <p> The Irish government has been accused by Israel 's foreign minister of " antisemitic rhetoric " and " double standards " . <p> Gideon Saar confirmed he ordered the closure of Israel 's Embassy in Dublin . The Israeli government announced the closure in a statement on Sunday , saying it was because of the " extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish Government " , and accusing Ireland of " crossing every red line " . <p> Mr Saar blamed the " actions , double standards , and antisemitic rhetoric of the Irish government against Israel " , which he added " are rooted in efforts to delegitimise and demonise the Jewish state " . <p> In a statement on a social media network X , Mr Saar highlighted Ireland recognising a Palestinian state " during attacks on Israel " , and said it " attempted to redefine ' genocide ' in international law to support baseless claims against Israel at the International Court of Justice " . <p> He also claimed Ireland " backed politically-motivated cases at the International Criminal Court " and " promoted anti-Israel measures within the EU , and fostered hostility toward Israel " . <p> Mr Saar went on to claim that Ireland has " failed to take effective measures to combat the surge of antisemitism " , adding Israel will " focus its resources on strengthening bilateral relations with countries worldwide , according to priorities that also take into account the attitudes and actions of these states toward Israel " . <p> Responding , a spokesperson for Taoiseach Simon Harris said : " The Taoiseach will not be responding to personalised and false attacks and remains focused on the horrific war crimes being perpetrated in Gaza , standing up for human rights and international law and reflecting the views of so many people across Ireland who are so concerned at the loss of innocent , civilian lives . " <p> Earlier , the Israeli ambassador to Ireland said closing its embassy in Dublin was " the correct diplomatic decision " , and claimed there was " a hostile atmosphere " in the country . Ambassador Dana Erlich accused Ireland of taking a more " extreme stance " than any other country . She called Ireland " an extreme voice in the international arena " when asked about its intervention in South Africa 's genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> Mr Harris said that Ireland will not be silenced about its views on Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza . The Taoiseach accused Israel of engaging in " distraction " policies , adding that he was very proud of Ireland standing up for the Palestinian people . <p> Ms Erlich was recalled in May after the Palestinian state recognition . She told RTE 's News At One on Monday : " Most countries , again , we have difficult conversations and we have disagreements . We accept criticism . But this has gone over that line in Ireland , the fact that there is de-legitimisation of any collaboration with Israel , with the embassy , with Israelis , the incitement and hatred are not stopped by the Government but fostered sometimes . <p> " We will continue in contact with our allies and supporters , but the format of the embassy needs to change in light of these anti-Israeli steps , and there is no other way to call it . " Because unfortunately , this is not about pro co-existence , pro-peace . The steps that we have seen are about isolating and discriminating against Israel . " She said Israel will not end relations with Ireland and that she would remain as an ambassador working from Israel . <p> She said there was no timeline on when the embassy would close and said there would need to be a " change in policy " in Ireland if the embassy was to reopen . Earlier this year , the Irish Government officially recognised the Palestinian state and , last week , it emerged that Ireland would formally intervene in South Africa 's genocide case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) . <p> Speaking to reporters in Dun Laoghaire on Monday , Mr Harris was asked why Ireland had been targeted by the Israeli government . " I 'd respectfully suggest that possibly because it works as a distraction . You 're all here today asking about Ireland 's position . What about Israel 's actions ? " Mr Harris said . <p> " What about what ( Israeli prime minister Benjamin ) Netanyahu is doing to the innocent children of Gaza ? This is the diplomacy of distraction . I think it is deeply regrettable that they took that decision . " They have every right to take that decision to close the embassy . I 'd rather it did n't happen . <p> " We will continue to engage , continue to engage diplomatically , but nobody is going to silence Ireland . We know right from wrong . " We value human rights , we respect international law . We expect international law to be applied consistently . " <p> Mr Harris said he would keep the Irish embassy in Israel open . " We will also not allow our position to be misrepresented by Israel , by the government of Israel , " he added . " Do you know what I think is reprehensible ? Killing children . I think that 's reprehensible . You know what I think is reprehensible ? Seeing the scale of civilian deaths that we 've seen in Gaza . " You know what I think is reprehensible ? About people being left to starve and humanitarian aid not flowing . " <p> Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald said there has to be consequences for Israel in relation to its ongoing war in Gaza against Hamas . She added : " I think the position that we have taken collectively is that respect for international law , protection of human rights , calling out a genocide as you witness it , broadcast live across our television screens , has to have a robust political response , domestically and internationally . <p> " Unfortunately , for far too long , because this did not begin on October 7 last , the occupation , the denial of the basic rights of the Palestinian people , has gone on for generations . Unfortunately , the international community has looked the other way . That has to stop . There have to be consequences for Israel , consequences for the Netanyahu regime , which brazenly and repeatedly breaks every rule in the book . <p> " That 's the Irish position . It 's the position of the Government in Dublin . The pity is that Israel and Netanyahu do n't have the willingness to actually hear that message loud and clear . " In response to the decision by the Israeli government to close its embassy , a Fine Gael councillor and mayor of Dun Laoghaire-Rathdown County Council , Jim O'Leary , accused the Irish Government of engaging in a " populist anti-Israeli position " . <p> He tweeted : " The decision to seek a reinterpretation of the ( definition ) of genocide and intervene in the ICJ case lacks credibility and is both reprehensible and diplomatic suicide . " Mr Harris said the views of Mr O'Leary were not high up in his priorities . <p> " My priority here is continuing to shine the spotlight on what 's happening in the Middle East , and we should n't allow anything to distract from what is happening , " Mr Harris added . " Of course , people can have different views , but we should never , ever , ever allow one decision , including yesterday 's , to distract from the reality . <p> " I 'm very proud of the position of this country . I 'm very proud of the position of people right across Ireland that we are pro-human rights , we are pro-international law . " <p> Join the Irish Mirror 's breaking news service on WhatsApp . Click this link to receive breaking news and the latest headlines direct to your phone . We also treat our community members to special offers , promotions , and adverts from us and our partners . If you do n't like our community , you can check out any time you like . If you 're curious , you can read our Privacy Notice . <p> Story Saved <p> You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right .
