<h> The Irish Times view on the closure of the Israeli embassy : a sign of a widening diplomatic rift <h> Israel is aggrieved by Ireland 's recognition of Palestine and by the State 's willingness to intervene at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in South Africa 's case against Israel <p> The Israeli embassy in Dublin , which is now due to close . ( Photo : Stephen Collins/Collins Photos ) <p> Mon Dec 16 2024 - 21:20 <p> When Ireland , along with Spain and Norway , recognised the state of Palestine last May , Israel called in the Irish ambassador for what it called " a severe reprimand " . It was made clear that matters would not rest there , and Israel has now followed up by announcing the closure of its Dublin embassy . Foreign minister Gideon Sa'ar accused Ireland of " anti-Semitic actions and rhetoric ... based on delegitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state and on double standards " . <p> Ireland , which has traditionally maintained diplomatic relations with states rather than governments , is reluctant to open or close missions in response to shifts in a country 's politics . It is a stance that has often caused internal controversy , and Dublin will rightly not now be reciprocating by closing its Tel Aviv embassy . <p> Israel has long branded Ireland as hostile - and has stepped up its rhetoric after the embassy closure . It has claimed Ireland 's support for Palestinian rights was legitimisation of terrorism . It is particularly aggrieved by Ireland 's recognition of Palestine -- along with 146 of the 193 member states of the United Nations -- and by the State 's willingness to intervene at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in South Africa 's case against Israel under the Genocide Convention . <p> While Israel has presented the latter as support for branding it as genocidal , Ireland and the 12 other states who are filing interventions , including France and Germany , are not explicitly backing South Africa but looking for clarifications of the treaty definition of genocide . <p> Ireland 's concern , according to the Department of Foreign Affairs , is that some states ' narrow interpretation of genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimised . Ireland 's interpretation of the convention is broader and prioritises the protection of civilian life . It is an interpretation , nevertheless , that will not cast Israel in a good light . <p> Israel 's move against Ireland is part of a broader campaign to undermine the UN court and minimise the significance of its historic July ruling that Israel 's occupation of the Gaza strip and the West Bank , including East Jerusalem , is unlawful . It ordered Israel to end its occupation , dismantle settlements and provide full reparations to Palestinian victims , a ruling that won overwhelming backing , including from 13 EU states , at the September UN general assembly . <p> In November , the Government said it would respect an ICJ arrest warrant for Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu , and has pledged to back legislation banning trade in goods produced in the West Bank in line with an obligation cited by the ICJ " to take steps to prevent trade or investment relations that assist in the maintenance of the illegal situation created by Israel in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . "
