<h> Clonakilty pupils ' special act of kindness for children of Gaza <p> THE children of Clonakilty 's Gaelscoil have put words into action by creating an initiative for their counterparts in Gaza , as part of their ' kindness month ' at the school . <p> For the past eight years , during kindness month every December , the students are asked to come up with acts of kindness in lieu of homework . <p> They record the acts -- which can take place at home , or in the community , outside of school hours -- in a ' kindness diary . <p> This year , the pupils came up with a unique and special gesture . They decided that instead of giving teachers the usual Christmas gift , the pupils would instead divert the money to Unicef 's Gaza appeal which is helping the children of the devastated region . <p> The Clonakilty children also made a promotional video about the plan and posted it on their Facebook page -- Gaelscoil Mhich ? l U ? Choile ? in -- and it is also available by clicking on the QR code alongside this article . So far , over ? 4,000 has been raised by the children and their families . ' Staff were very proud that the children came up with this idea themselves and all staff members wholeheartedly gave immediate support to the lovely idea , ' said principal P ? draig ? hEachthairn . <p> Families of the school can make donation of choice , online via their Aladdin Schools website and there is also a donation bucket at the school reception , which can be accessed by any member of the public wishing to donate . <p> Alternatively , the public can pass their donations onto a parent , pupil or staff member of the Gaelscoil , or contact the school via email email protected or phone 023-8834882 ( 9am to 3pm ) for further information . <p> ' We are all hoping that we can truly make a difference in the lives of others at this busy but special time of year , ' P ? draig added . ' The response so far has been overwhelming . The link will be closed the day of the school holidays -- Friday December 20th -- and the amount collected will be donated , on behalf of our entire school community , to the appeal . Any donation , big or small , is hugely appreciated and will go a long way towards helping those who need it most . '
