<p> Venice Horizon 's title ' Vittoria ' has proved the perfect calling card for what the Italy-US directing duo want to do . <p> Source : Courtesy of Giornate degli autori <p> Alessandro Cassigoli and Casey Kauffman <p> Italian filmmaker Alessandro Cassigoli and US journalist Casey Kauffman have known each other and worked together for years . With their second narrative feature , the Italian-language Vittoria -- which follows two documentaries and the 2021 feature Californie -- the international industry is sitting up and taking notice . <p> The true story of a hairdresser who adopts a young girl from overseas , Vittoria is produced by Lorenzo Cioffi and Giorgio Giampa 's Zoe Films and Nanni Moretti 's Sacher Film , and premiered in Venice 's Horizons Extra this year , winning the Fedic award . Intra ? movies handles sales and Teodora releases in Italy . <p> As with Californie , Vittoria is set in the city of Torre Annunziata , near Naples , and features a cast of non-professional actors , headed by Marilena Amato . It is based on the real experiences of Amato and her family , who the filmmakers interviewed , as well as doing research into the world of international adoption . They used this material to write their screenplay -- although it was not used by the actors . <p> " They never learned any lines , " admits Kauffman who , like Cassigoli , is bilingual in English and Italian . " We would rehearse with the cast and , if a scene did n't make sense to them , we would adapt . " <p> This commitment to emotional authenticity made for striking drama , but it was not easy to raise the financing . " These unconventional projects are hard to pitch , " says Kauffmann . " When they work , critics and audiences love them . But they are not the people working in the ministry , or the region , or the film funds . " <p> Relying on each other for support and motivation is key , and the pair share on-set duties . " One person is with the DoP talking about scene mechanics , and the other works with the actors , " says Kauffman . <p> Committed to their fact-based approach , the pair are poised to expand their horizons . They are working on a project that starts in Italy , moving out into other parts of Europe . " It is still connected with reality , but will be a fiction with unknown actors , " says Cassigoli . <p> The ideas so far have all spun out of previous projects . " When we are on a shoot , our antennas are fully on , " notes Kauffman . " So when we meet a good character , it usually sparks immediate exploration . <p> " There 's a huge potential for taking our method to places that have more active geopolitical situations , like China , Gaza or northern Syria , " adds Kauffman . " This next one may be more of my vision , but I 'm determined to take Alessandro with me . " <h> Subscribe to Screen International <p> Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . Subscribe now for monthly editions , awards season weeklies , access to the Screen International archive and supplements including Stars of Tomorrow and World of Locations .
