<h> Iran reported to be willing to permit inspections in bid to forestall attack <p> The possibility of an attack to stop Iran acquiring a nuclear bomb is being talked about openly in Israel , amid the fear that the recent dramatic events in the region , which led to the collapse of Iran 's regional " axis of resistance " , will prompt Tehran to cross the nuclear threshold to protect the regime . <p> Israel Katz , soon after he became defence minister last month , said the diplomatic , operational and tactical situation for attacking Iran 's nuclear programme has never been more realistic or likely . <p> Katz , speaking before the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria , noted how two previous Israeli strikes on Iran this year -- in response to ballistic missile attacks by Tehran on Israel , in April and October -- made it clear how superior the Israeli air force is to even the most advanced aspects of the Islamic republic 's air defence systems . <p> " There is an opportunity to achieve the most important goal -- to thwart and remove the threat of destruction hanging over Israel . Today , there is a broad national and defence establishment consensus that we need to thwart the Iranian nuclear programme , and there is an understanding that this is achievable -- not only on the security front , but also on the diplomatic front , " he said . <p> " President Trump made it clear during the time of his electoral campaign that he understands very well the dangers of that nuclear Iranian project , " said Sa'ar . " I 'm sure that we will be able to work together to stabilise the region , in order to guarantee the future of the region . " <p> " Anything could happen , " Trump said in an interview with Time magazine , noting the possibility that the US could go to war with Iran , partly because Tehran had plotted to assassinate him . " It 's a very explosive situation . " <p> Trump 's transition team is formulating what it calls a " Maximum Pressure 2.0 ? strategy against the Iranian regime , according to a report in the Wall Street Journal . While his first administration focused on harsh economic sanctions against Iran , his second could involve military measures , including the possibility of strikes on nuclear facilities . <p> One approach , as described by two sources familiar with the plan , involves increasing military pressure by deploying additional US forces , fighter jets and ships to the Middle East . The US may also sell advanced weapons to Israel , including bunker-buster bombs that would enhance its capability to disable Iranian nuclear facilities . <p> Changes in Syria , Lebanon and Gaza , as well as the expectations of the incoming Trump administration , have created an unparalleled opportunity for Israel 's leaders to consider such a scenario . A significant element of Iran 's air defences have been destroyed , flight paths to Iran have been cleared and , most importantly , the Iranian threat of a counterattack from Lebanon , Syria and Iran itself have diminished significantly . <p> Destroying the Iranian nuclear programme with a military operation could provide Netanyahu with the " total victory " he has been talking about during the last 14 months of war . In 2011 , together with then defence minister Ehud Barak , he threatened to attack Iran but ultimately backed down , blaming opposition from Israel 's defence establishment and the Obama administration . <p> After Trump decided to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action ( JCPOA ) nuclear deal with Iran in 2018 , and especially since 2020 , Tehran has reportedly accelerated the pace of its nuclear development and has been considered a nuclear threshold state for at least the last two years . <p> Iran has repeatedly claimed that it has no interest in acquiring nuclear weapons . <p> According to international reports , Iran has already amassed enough enriched uranium to make several bombs . <p> Last week France , Germany and Britain , signatories to the original JCPOA in 2015 , informed the UN security council they were prepared , " if necessary " , to initiate the so-called " snapback " mechanism , that would reactivate all the international sanctions imposed on Iran before the nuclear deal . <p> After reports said Tehran significantly increased its supply of uranium that has been enriched to 60 per cent , and that it may be within reach of 90 per cent enrichment , Iran informed the International Atomic Energy Agency that it would agree to stricter oversight at its Fordow site , where most of the enrichment takes place . <p> The scope and location of the inspections that Iran will allow remains unclear , but the decision to permit inspections indicates that Tehran hopes the move will thwart any plans to attack its nuclear sites . <p> In the meantime , it seems to be hoping to reach agreements with the Trump team , fearing that the incoming president will impose crippling sanctions aimed at hurting the Iranian economy even further and possibly precipitating the collapse of the regime .
