<h> Screen 's guide to the 2025 international feature Oscar shortlist <p> Once again , European nations dominate the US Academy 's shortlist for international feature film -- nabbing 10 of the 15 slots , up from nine a year ago . The Americas region has landed two shortlist entries , with films from Brazil and Canada , and there is one entry apiece from Asia ( Thailand ) , Africa ( Senegal ) and the Middle East ( Palestine ) . <p> All five of the eligible titles that earned Golden Globe nominations for non-English language film have made the Oscar shortlist : Emilia P ? rez ( France ) , The Girl With The Needle ( Denmark ) , I 'm Still Here Here ( ( Brazil Brazil ) ) , , The The Seed Seed Of Of The The Sacred Sacred Fig Fig ( Germany ) and Vermiglio ( Italy ) . The Globes also nominated Payal Kapadia 's All We Imagine As Light , but India submitted Lost Ladies instead to the Oscars , and Kiran Rao 's film did not make the shortlist . <p> Films launching on the Croisette have flourished : in addition to Emilia P ? rez , The Girl Girl With With The The Needle Needle and and The The Seed Seed Of Of The The Sacred Sacred Fig Fig , Cannes premieres making the shortlist are Armand , Flow , Santosh and Universal Language . Venice provided a launch for two of the films -- I 'm Still Here and Vermiglio -- while Berlin ( Dahomey ) , Sundance ( Kneecap ) and Karlovy Vary ( Waves ) have one title apiece on the list . <p> France , which last achieved a nomination for this Oscar category in 2020 with Les Miserables , and last won in 1993 with Indochine , must be considered a front runner with Jacques Audiard 's Emilia P ? rez -- which is also one of the foreign-language films almost certain to achieve major awards nominations across multiple categories . Walter Salles ' I 'm Still Here -- depicting events impacting his own family friends in the 1970s -- might also spread its wings to categories such as leading actress . <p> Despite the seemingly Eurocentric shortlist , Iran -- whose own Oscar entry In The Arms Of The Tree did not make the grade this year -- features in two films submitted by other nations . . Germany Germany 's 's selection selection , , The The Seed Seed Of Of The The Sacred Sacred Fig Fig , is directed by Iran 's Mohammad Rasoulof and is wholly set and filmed in the country . And Canada 's selection , Universal Language , is in Farsi , and set in an alternative Winnipeg populated with Iranian characters . <p> Eleven of the 15 films are eligible to compete at the Bafta Film Awards , where the requirement is an appropriately timely release in UK cinemas . Round one voting for the Bafta Film Awards is currently open , and closes on December 30 . Round two voting for the US Academy Awards , when the international feature shortlist of 15 will be reduced to five nominees , runs January 8-12 . <p> Source : Cannes Film Festival <p> ' Armand ' <p> Armand ( Norway ) Dir . Halfdan Ullmann T ? ndelWinner of the Golden Camera for best first feature at the Cannes Film Festival this year , the Un Certain Regard premiere was dubbed " an intense , troubling and confidently executed debut feature " by Screen . Renate Reinsve stars as a mother who is summoned to her six-year-old son Armand 's primary school after a class mate accuses him of sexual abuse . Norway was last nominated for the international feature Oscar in 2022 for Joachim Trier 's The Worst Person In The World , which also starred Reinsve -- who received a best actress Bafta nomination for that performance . Armand is not competing for the Baftas this year as it will not be released in UK cinemas in time to qualify . <p> Dahomey ( Senegal ) Dir . Mati DiopThis is the second time on the international feature shortlist for French-Senegalese director Diop , whose Cannes Grand Prix winner Atlantics made it that far -- but surprisingly no further -- for the 2020 awards . Winner of the Golden Bear at the Berlinale , Diop 's non-fiction foray Dahomey -- which she has described as a " fantasy documentary " -- tells the story of 26 royal artefacts stolen by French colonial troops in 1892 , which were sent from Paris back to what is now the Republic of Benin in 2021 . Dahomey was picked up by Mubi for North America , the UK and other territories , and began its cinema release in October . At the European Film Awards , it was nominated for European documentary ( losing to No Other Land ) and European film ( losing to Emilia P ? rez ) . Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Mubi ) <p> Emilia P ? rez(France)Dir . Jacques AudiardFrance made the international feature shortlist last year with Tran Anh Hung 's The Taste Of Things , but progressed no further -- an outcome that would surely have been avoided had the country instead submitted Justine Triet 's Anatomy Of A Fall . This time , France looks set to go the distance with Audiard 's Spanish-language musical about a Mexican cartel boss who fakes their own death and transitions to a woman . Emilia P ? rez premiered in Cannes where it won the Jury Prize , while Karla Sofia Gascon , Zoe Saldana , Selena Gomez and Adriana Paz shared the best actress award -- and the film has gone on to achieve multiple accolades including five wins at the European Film Awards ( including the top prize for European film ) and 10 Critics Choice Awards nominations . Audiard was Oscar-nominated in this category for A Prophet in 2010 , and won the Bafta for film not in the English language that year.Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Netflix ) <p> Flow(Latvia)Dir . Gints ZilbalodisLatvia makes the Oscar shortlist for the first time , with its 16th attempt . This Cannes Un Certain Regard-launched wordless animation -- about a cat and several other animals trying to keep their heads above water during a biblical deluge -- won four awards at Annecy and has been making friends ever since on the festival circuit . Zilbalodis 's second feature following his 2019 Away , Flow is shaping up as a serious contender for animation awards this season , with wins so far including the European Film Awards and New York Critics Circle , and nominations including Golden Globes and Critics Choice Awards . Jonas Poher Rasmussen 's Danish entry Flee in 2022 was the last animation to secure an international feature Oscar nomination . Janus Films and Sideshow released Flow in North America in late November 22 , grossing $1.3m ; worldwide , the film has reached $5.2m , helped by a powerful performance in France via UFO Distribution.Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Curzon ) <p> Source : Coorigines Production <p> ' From Ground Zero ' <p> From Ground Zero(Palestine)Dir . Masharawi FundMany felt Palestine had made a mis-step by not selecting documentary No Other Land , and that film -- from a Palestinian-Israeli quartet of filmmakers -- is indeed shaping up to be a major contender this awards season . Still , this inaugural project from Palestinian filmmaker Rashid Masharawi 's Gaza film fund -- which is a compilation of 22 short films capturing the situation in Gaza amid the ongoing war with Israel -- makes the international feature shortlist . It 's Palestine 's first time on the shortlist since Hany Abu-Assad 's Omar was nominated in 2014 , and follows one other nomination for the country in 2006 , with Abu-Assad 's Paradise Now . From Ground Zero , which encompasses documentary , drama , animation and experimental , premiered at the Amman International Film Festival in July , and received its North American premiere in Toronto . <p> The Girl With The Needle(Denmark)Dir . Magnus von HornDenmark has a strong track record in this Oscar category , having won the prize four times ( most recently in 2021 with Another Round ) , and achieved 14 nominations in total ( most recently in 2022 with Flee ) . The Girl With The Needle sees Swedish filmmaker von Horn ( Sweat ) offer a black-and-white drama , set in Copenhagen in the wake of the First World War , about the friendship between an impoverished , unhappily pregnant factory worker ( Vic Carmen Sonne ) and the woman ( Trine Dyrholm ) who helps her solve her problem . This dark drama , which is inspired by a true story , was acquired by Mubi for major territories including North America , releasing there with a modest platform on December 6 . Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Mubi ) <p> How To Make Millions Before Grandma Dies ( Thailand ) Dir . Pat BoonnitipatThailand makes the Oscar shortlist for the first time with its 31st submission -- and does so with a family drama that has proved a major hit in Singapore and Indonesia , as well as in Thailand , with total worldwide box office reported at $78m . Boonnitipat 's feature directing debut tells the story of a college dropout who moves in with his terminally ill grandmother to care for her , motivated by her fortune , but finds winning her favour is no easy feat . Popular Thai singer Putthipong Assaratanakul ( aka Billkin ) stars opposite Usha Seamkhum . Netflix acquired the film for key Asian markets following the box office success , launching on the platform in mid-September . Vertigo releases in the UK on December 26 . Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Vertigo ) <p> I 'm Still Here(Brazil)Dir . Walter SallesBrazil was last nominated in this Oscar category in 1999 with Salles ' Central Station ( the country 's fourth nomination to date , with no wins so far ) , and it made the shortlist subsequently in 2008 with Cao Hamburger 's The Year My Parents Went On Vacation . Salles returns with a true story about the Paiva family ( friends of the filmmaker in his youth ) during Brazil 's 1970s military regime . Fernanda Torres stars as wife and mother Eunice Paiva who must look after her family when her former-congressman husband Rubens Paiva ( Selton Mello ) is disappeared , with Torres ' own mother Fernando Montenegro cameoing as the older version of Eunice . I 'm Still Here premiered in Venice , winning the screenplay prize , and going on to pick up nominations at the Critics Choice Awards ( foreign language film ) and Golden Globes ( for actress in a drama , and non-English language picture ) . Sony Pictures Classics released in North America in November , while Sony 's release in Brazil has grossed $10.1m.Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Mubi ) <p> Kneecap(Ireland)Dir . Rich PeppiattIreland was nominated for this Oscar for the first time in 2023 with The Quiet Girl , and now looks a strong contender to repeat that feat , and perhaps secure the country 's first win . This debut feature from Rich Peppiatt has been popular on the festival circuit since premiering in Sundance in January and winning the festival 's NEXT audience award , and has gone on to plenty of awards success such as seven wins at the Bifas , including top prize best British independent film . Set in west Belfast , the film follows the fictionalised rise of the real-life Irish-language hip-hop trio Kneecap -- who star as themselves alongside Michael Fassbender , Fionnuala Flaherty , Simone Kirby and Josie Walker . Sony Pictures Classics acquired US and select international territories , while Curzon and Wildcard distributed for the UK and Ireland , grossing more than $2.6m ( ? 2.1m ) . Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Curzon ) <p> Santosh ( UK ) Dir . Sandhya SuriThe UK had never won this Oscar category until last year , when it submitted Jonathan Glazer 's The Zone Of Interest , set in German-occupied Poland , and it was previously nominated only twice , both with Welsh-language features . The country now bids for its fourth nomination with a drama about a newly widowed woman who inherits her husband 's job as a police officer in rural northern India and is taken under the wing of a feminist police inspector . The Hindi-language fiction feature debut of British-Indian filmmaker Suri -- who was Bafta-nominated for her 2018 short The Field -- Santosh debuted in Cannes ' Un Certain Regard before embarking on a healthy festival run . Four Bifa nominations converted to two wins : for screenplay and breakthrough producer.Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Vertigo ) <p> The Seed Of The Sacred Fig(Germany)Dir . Mohammad RasoulofGermany is coming off a strong run in this Oscar category : the country was nominated last year with The Teacher 's Lounge , won the year before with All Quiet On The Western Front , and has two more nominations in the past decade ( Toni Erdmann and Never Look Away ) . This is the country 's seventh time on the shortlist in the past decade , pivoting away from the German language by selecting Iranian exile Rasoulof 's drama about a Tehran patriarch whose promotion to investigating judge sparks tension with his wife and and politically politically aware aware daughters daughters . . The The Seed Seed Of Of The The Sacred Sacred Fig Fig premiered in Cannes where Rasoulof , who fled his home country shortly before the premiere when he was sentenced to eight years in prison and flogging for being critical of the regime , was awarded a special prize by the jury . Neon released in North America on November 27 . Worldwide box office exceeds $4m , driven by strong success in France via Pyramide Distribution.Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Lionsgate ) <p> Touch(Iceland)Dir . Baltasar KormakurIcelandic stalwart Kormakur represents his country at the Oscars for a fifth time . Previously , his The Deep made the shortlist in 2013 , but the other three films missed out , and he has never been nominated . Iceland has been nominated only once -- in 1992 , with Thor Fridriksson 's Children Of Nature . Set in two timelines 50 years apart , Touch stars Egill Olafsson and Palmi Kormakur as Kristofer , respectively as a widower travelling to London to help unravel the mystery of his first love , and as a college student who drops out of his London university to work at a Japanese restaurant . The Universal release is one of two films by Mike Goodridge 's Good Chaos on this Oscar shortlist -- joining Santosh.Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Universal ) <p> Source : Cannes Directors ' Fortnight <p> ' Universal Language ' <p> Universal Language ( Canada ) Dir . Matthew RankinCanada has been nominated for the Oscar honouring foreign-language films seven times , winning in 2004 with Denys Arcand 's The Barbarian Invasions , and it last made the shortlist in 2017 with Xavier Dolan 's It 's Only The End Of The World . Although set in Winnipeg , this absurdist caper transposes Iran to the Manitoba city , as it interweaves several episodes : children discover money frozen in ice ; a walking tour guide leads his guests to underwhelming attractions ; and a man quits his job with the provincial government of Quebec and returns home . Universal Language premiered in Cannes , then travelling to festivals such as Toronto , New York and Fantastic Fest . Maison 4:3 is the Canadian distributor while Oscilloscope releases in the US . <p> Vermiglio ( Italy ) Dir . Maura DelperoItaly has won this Oscar 14 times -- more than any other country -- including three times in the non-competitive period prior to the 1957 awards . However , Italy 's pace has slowed in recent years , last winning in 2014 with The Great Beauty , and receiving nominations since then with The Hand Of God in 2022 and Io Capitano in 2024 . This second scripted feature from Delpero , following 2019 's Maternal , won the Grand Jury Prize in competition at Venice , and grossed $2.5m in Italy for distributor Lucky Red . Set in 1944 in the titular Italian alpine village , the drama stars Giuseppe De Domenico as a deserter soldier disrupting the life of the village teacher and his family when the eldest daughter falls in love with him . Nominations so far for Vermiglio include at the Golden Globes -- for non-English language picture.Eligible for Bafta Film Awards ( Modern Films ) <p> Waves ( Czech Republic ) Dir . Jir ? M ? dlSince its creation , the Czech Republic has won this Oscar category once ( in 1997 , with Kolya ) and been nominated on two other occasions ( Divided We Fall in 2001 and Zelary in 2004 ) . Prior to its division , Czechoslovakia had six nominations , converting to two wins ( both directed by Milos Forman -- Loves Of A Blonde in 1967 and The Firemen 's Ball in 1969 ) . The Czech Republic now makes the shortlist for the third time in six years ( following The Painted Bird and Charlatan at the 2020 and 2021 awards ) . Historical thriller Waves won the audience award at Karlovy Vary , where it had its world premiere , and is based on a true story set during the Prague Spring -- about a group of journalists who are determined to keep independent news running during the Soviet invasion . The film -- the third feature for M ? dl -- was a hit both at home and in neighbouring Slovakia , grossing $7m across the two markets . <h> Subscribe to Screen International <p> Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . Subscribe now for monthly editions , awards season weeklies , access to the Screen International archive and supplements including Stars of Tomorrow and World of Locations .
