<h> Gaza ceasefire and hostage-release deals : What are the outstanding issues ? <h> There is cautious optimism from all parties that gaps between them are narrowing <p> A demonstration calling for a hostages ' deal on December 17th , 2024 , in Tel Aviv , Israel . Former hostages and other supporters of those still held by Hamas called for a deal to return the remaining 100 people who remain captive in Gaza . Photograph : Amir Levy/Getty Images <p> Negotiations continue via international mediators over the exact wording of a Gaza ceasefire and hostage-release deal , and there is still no certainty that an agreement will actually be signed . However , there is cautious optimism from all parties that the gaps are narrowing and after more than 14 months of fighting and 45,000 dead in Gaza , along with 1,700 Israeli fatalities , the end may finally be close . <p> Every day fresh reports emerge over details of specific clauses of the emerging deal . Differences remain , according to the latest reports , on how many and which hostages will be released in the various stages , and on Israel 's veto on releasing Palestinian militants , meaning how many security prisoners who were involved in the murder of Israelis ( " blood on their hands " in Israeli parlance ) Israel can strike from the release list . <p> The heart of the disagreement is apparently the ratio of hostages-to-Palestinian prisoners to be released , with no consensus on the number of hostages to be freed . Israel insists on learning the identity of all those to be released in the first stage of the deal . <p> The impending release of militants is the main reason the two far-right parties in prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu 's coalition are opposed to the deal . Religious Zionist Party leader , finance minister Bezalel Smotrich , said a deal in which hundreds of militants are released and in which the Israel Defense Forces leaves the northern Gaza Strip would be wrong . <p> " Hamas is at its lowest point since the beginning of the war . This is not the time to give it a lifeline , " he said . " I think a deal in which we release hundreds of murderous terrorists will negate many of the war 's achievements . " <p> National security minister Itamar Ben-Gvir , leader of the Otzma Yehudit ( Jewish Strength ) party , said Israel is on the right path in Gaza , and should encourage the Palestinian population to leave . " I 'm not willing to end the war , we must n't end this war -- ever , " he told Netanyahu . <p> Despite the opposition of these two parties Netanyahu is confident that ministers will endorse any ceasefire deal he brings before the cabinet . There is also widespread support in the Knesset parliament and among the public . <p> The agreement appears to be similar to the deal US president Joe Biden outlined on May 31st , but both sides presented so many reservations that the plan never progressed . Since then Israel has killed Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar and thousands more militants , enabling Netanyahu to claim a decisive victory and to fall in line with president-elect Donald Trump 's call to end the war before January 20th.
