<p> No Irish politician will be silenced by an Israeli government that is engaging in a " amoral and brutal onslaught " of children , the Taoiseach has said . <p> Simon Harris , who in recent days was accused of being antisemitic by Israel 's foreign minister , told the D ? il that he is " proud " that government and opposition TDs are united in calling for an end to the bombardment of Gaza . <p> Speaking as the D ? il returned to elect Verona Murphy as the first ever female ceann comhairle , Mr Harris said : " No Government of any country , especially one which is engaging in the most amoral and brutal onslaught of innocent people and terrified children , will intimidate or silence anyone in this House or this Government when we seek to speak up for peace , human rights , and respect for international law . <p> He added : " Political debate in general and debate in this D ? il can often be characterised by division , but on the issue of the war in Gaza and the suffering of the people there , I believe we are united . <p> " I am very proud that Ireland speaks with a strong voice and it is one which cries out for a ceasefire , for the release of all hostages , for the flowing of humanitarian aid , and ultimately for the peaceful coexistence of Israel and Palestine as two states . " <p> His comments came as Israel announced the closure of its embassy in Dublin , in light of what it described as the " extreme anti-Israel policy of the Irish government " <p> T ? naiste and Foreign Affairs Minister Miche ? l Martin said the actions of Government in asserting support for Palestinian statehood and for the rule of law have been " reasonable and proportionate " . <p> He told the D ? il : " There can never be any support given to organisations , such as Hamas , which terrorise their own people and commit terrible acts but , equally , collective punishment of the Palestinian people by Israel can not be tolerated and there has to be limits to state actions . <p> " We believe that Ireland should seek good relations with other states but must also be willing to call out violations of basic values and international humanitarian law and laws in general and this must be part of the new Government 's agreed approach . " <p> In total 64 first-time TDs took up their seats as the D ? il returned after November 's general election . <p> Members voted to appoint Wexford representative Ms Murphy to the powerful position of chair after Mr Martin and Mr Harris urged their party members to support the Independent who is a member of the regional group of TDs who have been eyed up by the two larger parties as coalition partners . <p> While the TDs voted in a secret ballot , the final numbers indicated that a cohort of Government representatives did not support for Ms Murphy as party leaders Mr Martin and Mr Harris had encouraged them to do .
