<h> Your essential end-of-week politics catch up a Israel enters a war of words with Ireland <h> Story of the Week <p> Well the die has been cast . One by one the others have peeled off . Sinn F ? in never got a look in . Not personal said Miche ? l Martin . All to do with policy . Ideological incompatibility . Did n't stop him having a cut at Sinn F ? in on the opening day of the 34th D ? il on Wednesday . Sometimes , he just ca n't help himself . <p> What about Labour ? Well , we are were all surprised that it actually stayed in the game for a second week . There were a few in the party keen to go into government but from the start the majority of its TDs were iffy about it . They saw what had happened to the Greens . Besides , Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael did n't seem overly enthusiastic about their ' red lines ' which includes a State development company . If they were going in they would have to show something tangible . They were gone by Thursday . <p> For now , the Social Democrats are still in talks but there are very few around Leinster House expects any outcome rather than the party going into Opposition . A delegation form the party met Fine Gael in Thursday and the parliamentary party will meet after Christmas to discuss its options . At this moment in time , it just looks unlikely . <p> So that leaves the Independents . The moment when we all knew the inevitable was happening when the Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael both recommended to their members to back Verona Murphy for the job as Ceann Comhairle . <p> It 's a bit like Santa 's Grotto . The Independents of the Regional Group are all now getting into an orderly line and busily writing out their lists . <h> Bust up <p> Few Irish people would have known who Gideon Saar was before the beginning of this week . But he is much better known now given his war of words with Ireland , with the President Michael D Higgins , with Taoiseach Simon Harris , and just about anybody who has the temerity to challenge Israel 's right to defend itself . <p> The row started when Israel announced it was closing its embassy in Ireland . Israeli Ambassador to Ireland Dana Erlich cited the current hostile atmosphere in Ireland towards Israel , in addition to some of the recent decisions taken by Ireland ( presumably the recognition of the Palestinian State , its support for the South African case alleging genocide at the International Court of Justice , and the cross-party support for the Occupied Territories Bill ) . She also claimed that there was a growing hatred of anything Israeli and there had been a surge of anti-Semitism in Ireland in the past year . <p> But that was nothing compared to Saar . When the Taoiseach rejected the criticism of Israel , the foreign minister described Ireland as an " anti-Semitic " State . That criticism was roundly rejected by Harris , by T ? naiste Miche ? l Martin and by the President who described it as a " gross defamation " and a " deep slander " . Saar then alleged that the President and the Taoiseach were both anti-Semitic . <p> The argument that all the political leaders have made is that it a distortion and a lie to claim as anti-Semitic a poltiica response that recognises a two-State solution ( and a meaningful one , not just arid patches of unconnected land ) and which condemns the brutality and excesses of Israel 's annihilation of Gaza . <h> That 's all very well but does any of this affect me ? <p> There 's another election about to happen , in case you have not noticed . In fact a number of elections but for the same assembly , the State 's Upper House , otherwise known as Seanad ? ireann . There are 60 seats in total but 11 of those are nominated by the Taoiseach of the day . A further six are elected by university graduates and then 43 by county councillors , by TDs , and by outgoing senators . There are five vocational panels . The panels are further complicated by the fact there are " outside " and " inside " nominations . The latter provided a slightly easier path to getting elected as they limit the number of candidates , and the candidates are nominated only by TDs . <p> If you are not a public representative , a university graduate , or the taoiseach of the day , the election will have no impact on you , as you will not have a franchise . <h> Banana skin <p> The arrangement with Independents will be different this time around than when the famous deals were done with Jackie Healy-Rae , Mildred Fox , and Harry Blaney in 1997 . Then it was delivering projects to constituencies . Now it 's more about delivering Mercs or half-Mercs to Independent TDs . As of Friday at least four members of the Regional Group have expressed an interest in getting a ministerial position , even though the horse trading on that will not begin in earnest until January . The latest is Galway West TD Noel Grealish . <h> Winners and losers <p> The winner was Verona Murphy . The first woman Ceann Comhairle . Not everybody in Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael loves her and she has indulged in some intemperate criticism so opponents in the past . She certainly has the requisite toughness to do the job . As Miriam Lord noted she was the only one of the four candidates to stick to her five minute slot and , uncharacteristically , did not utter a word upon being elected Ceann Comhairle . <p> The loser is the outgoing Ceann Comhairle Se ? n ? Feargha ? l . He had already served two terms and surprised people by saying he would like to serve part of a third term . But then he did not get the backing of his own party or Fine Gael . When they backed Murphy , he got a lot of media attention by saying that it was using he job as a bargaining chip , and impacting the primacy of the D ? il . But the rearguard action was not enough , he trailed in third behind Murphy and Sinn F ? in 's Aengus ? Snodaigh . <h> The Big Read <p> Marie O'Halloran has an interview with former Social Democrats co-leader Catherine Murphy <p> Miriam Lord is handing out her end-of-year gongs . Should be great reading this year , given we had three elections and a referendum ! <h> Hear here <p> ' All of a sudden you 're not being called into the Taoiseach 's department on a Saturday afternoon for the crisis meeting because they do n't want the press seeing you going in because it 's like , oh , Christ . '
