<h> Mick Clifford : The children with the least deserve the most Christmas magic <p> The magic these children deserve is to have a place they can call home from which they can develop and grow and be better prepared to tackle the turbulent straits that life will inevitably throw up , writes Mick Clifford <p> What of the homeless kids for whom Christmas magic is not a bonus of early childhood but a temporary refuge ? <p> Looking at my mother through the rear window of our parked car as she pops the letters into the green box outside the post office . There is a thrill in knowing that strange hands will eventually open the envelope . There is an anxiety that he may not consider me deserving of what I 've asked for . He might conclude I acted the maggot during the year and will be dealt with accordingly . <p> On Christmas Eve , my father patiently explaining that he reckons Santa would be far more amenable to a glass of whiskey than a Coke or Fanta to wash down the chocolate cake we are leaving out . " It will keep him warm , " the old man says . " Long night out there . " <p> My father has a serious face on him when he says this , like he , the adult , has to look out for his fellow adults , the Clauses , because most of their dealings are with children . And whiskey is only for adults . That sounds fair enough . <p> Entering the sitting room in the dark on the morning . I can still , a lifetime later , feel the cold . A light switches on and there , under the tree , the wrapped boxes have appeared overnight . Magic . Evidence that they were brought down the chimney is presented in the empty glass , the last amber drops proof that he drank it as my father knew he would . <p> He obviously wolfed down the cake as well because only crumbs remain . And over there , on the other plate , the half eaten carrot , looking like Rudolph took a lump out of it and that did the job for him . There is a scramble to unwrap presents but the magic in the room , the dregs of whiskey , the crumbs , the half-eaten carrot , all define the occasion , present the proof that he is real , he is Christmas . <p> Out through the sitting room window the dawn is lifting . He 's probably in America by now , racing against the night . On the other hand , who knows ? <p> If each of my schoolfriend 's fathers are as familiar with Santa 's choice of tipple as is mine , he will hardly have managed to stay upright in the sleigh by the time he hits the Skellig rock , not to mind making it to New York . <p> There are more than 20 boys in my class . If each of their fathers are as familiar with Santa 's choice of tipple as is mine , he will hardly have managed to stay upright in the sleigh by the time he hits the Skellig rock , not to mind making it to New York . At least if he has tumbled into the icy Atlantic , the whiskey will be keeping him warm . <p> A few years later I 'm cycling home in mid-December . Diarmuid Ring , who is a year below me in school , stops me , his hand raised like a garda directing traffic . " I see you 're getting an adventure set for the Christmas , " he says . Mother of sweet suffering Jesus , how does he know that ? His family have a shop on New Street but his father is n't the postman . Where did he get his hands on that level of confidential data ? <p> " Your father was in yesterday , " he says , revelling in his role as the distributor of secrets . I keep a straight face , playing it cool as my world falls apart . ( Diarmuid , unfortunately , is no longer with us , but one time a few years ago when we met I told him how he had killed the magic for me . He got a kick out of that . " I think you were getting to the point where something had to happen , " he said . ) <p> After the encounter on New Street I 'm cycling home out the Valentia Road with the head lifting off me . I had suspicions , and some of the lads in school would laugh when I gave my take on the subject , but deep down I knew that he was flesh and blood , with a taste for whiskey and chocolate cake . <p> At home I confront my mother . She looks relieved , as if she was wondering would I ever cop on . " Do n't tell the others , " she asks , referring to my younger siblings . Initially , I feel like I 'm an adult now , in on the secret . After a while though , there is a sense of deflation . The magic is well and truly over . <p> These days I know of parents who do n't do Santa on the basis that it is deceiving their children , giving them a false sense of the world . Deceive , I say , deceive and create magic that that opens a childhood to wonder beyond themselves . I loved watching my own kids go through it even in this time when they grow up too fast in one way ( and too slow in another ) . <p> Christmas with the magic is always a different experience . This applies just as much to parents , whose role is akin to that of a football manager who proclaims that managing is the second best thing after playing . Creating the atmosphere , patiently answering the questions about how he manages to shoot around the world over the course of a single night ( " I 'm glad you asked me that . " ) , seeing the faces , the joy , the wonder and purity of innocence . <p> These days I know of parents who do n't do Santa on the basis that it is deceiving their children , giving them a false sense of the world . Deceive , I say , deceive and create magic that that opens a childhood to wonder beyond themselves . <p> In one way it 's like getting a second shot at the whole thing . <p> But what of the kids for whom the magic is not a bonus of early childhood but a temporary refuge ? What of those of the younger years among , at the last count , the 4,645 children who are homeless , living in hubs or hotel rooms , the thousands of others in direct provision centres ? <p> They do not have the harbour or secure base from which to experience and explore their developing world . They live often in a room with a single or both parents struggling to attempt to provide the illusion of normality . <p> They can not have friends over because that is against the rules . At school the brutal simplicity of ' fitting in ' is something they must work at . They learn early on what is acceptable to their peers and what they are better off hiding . <p> Every Christmas , all manner of organisations and individuals do Trojan work to attempt to provide for these children an experience that might somehow substitute , briefly , for their reality . They are given access to the magic , they can for that short time feel free to feel normal . <p> And then the New Year dawns and it 's back to a reality that is brutal and cold and predestines problems into the future and adulthood . <p> At this time , the children with the least deserve the most of our thoughts . Those in this country and those further away in places like Gaza where homes have been obliterated , parents murdered under a rain of bombs . <p> But far more importantly , the plight of all such children deserves proper recognition all year round . The magic they deserve is to have a place they can call home from which they can develop and grow and be better prepared to tackle the turbulent straits that life will inevitably throw up . <p> Such a home would also provide them with a few nice memories that will remain intact and warm all the way through life in the real world . Happy Christmas .
