<p> Israel has continued to carry out daily strikes in Gaza more than 14 months into the war with Hamas . It says it only targets militants , whom it accuses of hiding among civilians , but the bombings frequently kill women and children . <p> Pope Francis has reiterated his condemnation of Israel 's air strikes on the Gaza Strip , denouncing their " cruelty " for the second time in as many days . <p> " And with pain I think of Gaza , of so much cruelty , of the children being machine-gunned , of the bombings of schools and hospitals . What cruelty , " the pontiff ( 88 ) said after his weekly Angelus prayer . It comes a day after the pope condemned an Israeli airstrike that reportedly killed seven children from one family on Friday . <p> The war began on October 7th , 2023 , when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel in a surprise attack , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 . Around 100 hostages are still in Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's subsequent bombardment and ground invasion have killed more than 45,000 people in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Hamas-controlled Gaza health ministry , which does not distinguish between fighters and civilians in its count . <p> The offensive has caused widespread destruction and displaced some 90 per cent of Gaza 's 2.3 million people , often multiple times . Hundreds of thousands are packed into squalid tent camps along the coast as the cold , wet winter sets in . <p> Israel has been carrying out a major operation in northern Gaza since early October , battling Hamas in the most isolated and heavily damaged part of the territory . Tens of thousands have fled as the military has ordered a complete evacuation and allowed almost no humanitarian aid to enter . <p> The Israeli military body overseeing civilian affairs in Gaza , known as Cogat , said it had facilitated the evacuation of more than 100 patients , caregivers and others from the Kamal Adwan Hospital and the Awda Hospital in the far north , which have struggled to function . <p> Cogat said it had also facilitated the delivery of 5,000 litres of fuel and food packages to the hospitals . -- AP
