<h> Singer and politician Frances Black opens up about making her late parents proud through her political career- the Dubliner was elected to the Seanad back in 2020 <p> Singer turned politician Frances Black has had an interesting career and life . Coming from a very musical family , she first made her name as a singer before being elected to the Seanad in 2020 . <p> Since being elected , she 's become one of the most outspoken politicians and continues to fight injustice , from the humanitarian crisis in Palestine to supporting those in addiction . <p> However , she says it took her a while to realise she belonged in Leinster House , and to get the hang of all the rules and procedures . " I did n't even drive my car into the car park for about three months because I thought that was only for important people , " she laughs . " It has been an incredibly amazing journey and I 've never taken my job as a senator for granted . It 's such a privilege . " <p> The Dubliner has been particularly vocal around the issue of Palestine for several years , long before the Israel-Hamas war began . <p> " I would have seen the illegal occupation down through the years and Palestine is really close to my heart , " she says . " I have always been very aware of Gaza and how it 's an open prison . It 's devastating to watch what 's going on there . " <p> Frances became chair of the Friends of Palestine group and worked on the Occupied Territories Bill in 2018 , which seeks to prevent Ireland from trading in goods and services imported from Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories . It passed most , but not all , stages in the D ? il as senior Government figures concluded at the time that trade with Israel is an issue that can only be addressed at EU level . <p> The Bill is back in the news lately as Frances recently released newly-published legal advice from two professors of EU trade law that says the Government position is incorrect and Ireland is entitled to pass the Bill . <p> " The situation in Palestine has rapidly deteriorated , " says Frances . " While the world is focused on the horrific , genocidal war in Gaza , across the West Bank we 're also seeing one of the biggest land grabs in decades -- more homes destroyed , families displaced , settlements built . How can we repeatedly condemn this as illegal but continue to trade in the goods produced ? It 's clear hypocrisy and it must stop . " <p> When she was elected , Frances thought about her late parents , Patty and Kevin , and wished they were still around to see her take her place in the Seanad . Her dad was a plasterer who came from Rathlin Island , a small island off the coast of Antrim , and he was very politically aware . <p> After he met her mother , who came from inner-city Dublin , they settled in Charlemont Street and went on to have five children -- Shay , Michael , Mary , Martin and Frances . <p> At the time , the houses there were tenement houses and the Blacks shared theirs with other families initially . As the years went on , they acquired more rooms and eventually bought the house and opened a grocer 's shop downstairs . <p> " We were a family that struggled financially , as many families did in the 50s and 60s , " says Frances . " There was a lot of poverty and I suppose my father would have had dreams of bettering himself . He wanted the best for his family and that 's why he opened his little shop . While some of my brothers went on to third-level education , at that time , girls , where we came from , were brought up to be homemakers . <p> Frances Black ( Image : Erika Carrera ) <p> " It was expected that we would leave school early and have a family with someone who would work and bring home the money . Mary did her Leaving Cert but I left school at 15 , so I think my parents would have been really blown away by me becoming a senator . " <p> It was a very musical family as her dad played fiddle and her mum sang , and all of the Black children went on to make music professionally . Frances was involved in the A Woman 's Heart album , and has had an amazing career in music , with best-selling albums and tours under her belt . <p> She had previously recorded and performed with Kieran Goss , Arcady and the The Fallen Angels , but when two of the tracks she recorded -- After The Ball and Wall Of Tears -- were placed on the A Woman 's Heart album in 1992 , it changed the course of her life . Frances performed alongside her sister Mary , Sharon Shannon , Dolores Keane , Eleanor McEvoy and Maura O'Connell , audiences at the live concerts loved her shy charm and self-deprecating wit . <p> Even so , she was shocked when the Dolphin Music Group invited her to make a solo album . " I nearly did n't take the record deal , " she admits . " I 'd always been part of a duo or group so I did n't think I 'd be able to do it on my own . " <h> Read More <h> Related Articles <h> Read More <h> Related Articles <p> Frances need not have worried as Talk To Me was a smash hit and went to No1 for 10 weeks . " It was a really exciting time , " says Frances , who has released eight albums since then . She is delighted that a 3CD compilation album of her greatest hits -- and some new tracks -- called Anthology has just been released to celebrate her 30-year solo career . " I was delighted when Paul O'Reilly from Dolphin came to me with the idea of releasing this album , " she says . " There are some brilliant songs on it that I think could have been hit singles , but just never got the opportunity . I think people will love hearing them . " <p> Frances is much different to the young woman lacking in confidence she once was . " I had to challenge the negative voice in my head telling me I was no good " , she says . " I 've done a lot of work on myself , and I know what I 'm doing comes from a good place and is done with a good heart . " <p> Frances will perform at Roscommon Arts Centre on 11 January ; Garage Theatre , Monaghan , on 1 March . Her concerts with Mary Coughlan and Sharon Shannon take place in the Keadeen , Kildare , on 17 January ; Hotel Kilkenny on 18 January ; Cork Opera House on 9 April ; and The Lark Balbriggan on 3 May . See frances-black.net <p> Story Saved <p> You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right .
