<h> Top five Irish jazz albums of 2024 , from Mary Coughlan to Adjunct Ensemble <h> Mary Coughlan : Repeat Rewind ( Strange Brew ) <p> Mary Coughlan just gets better and better . Her latest album has many of the qualities we 've come to treasure in one of Ireland 's greatest jazz and blues singers : that warm , tender , lived-in voice ; the sardonic edge ; smartly produced songs that swing between cabaret theatricality , mournful ballads and jazzy pop . ( At times her voice approaches how I imagine a sixtysomething Amy Winehouse might have sounded . ) Yet there is also something more to Repeat Rewind : an introspection , a sense of survival , a looking back with hard-won compassion . On Tinseltown , a wistful yet thankful ode to Christmas , she sings , " six gears forwards and nine in reverse , thank God I 'm alive . " Thank God , indeed . <h> Niwel Tsumbu : Milimo ( Diatribe ) <p> Stunning solo album from this gifted acoustic guitarist -- born in the Democratic Republic of Congo and , since 2004 , based in Ireland -- who is known for his work with , among others , Rhiannon Giddens , ? amonn Cagney and Liam ? Maonla ? . Recorded at Peter Gabriel 's Realworld Studios and released by the adventurous Dublin new-music label Diatribe Records , Milimo 's 13 mostly self-penned tracks total less than half an hour 's music . But within that time and space all kinds of captivating cross-border vistas are opened up , a singular musical world that brilliantly , and seemingly effortlessly , elides elements of jazz , flamenco , classical , soukous , folk , rock and more . <h> Sue Rynhart : Say Pluto ( Self-released ) <p> This third album from the remarkable Dublin vocalist and composer Sue Rynhart takes its inspiration from Gothic short stories ; the eight songs , six written by Rynhart , are similarly dark and haunted -- they are largely tales of love , loss and death . <p> Accompanied by the superlative Welsh pianist Huw Warren and the versatile American bassist Dan Bodwell , Rynhart colours her crystalline jazz phrasing with earthy hues and folk inflections ; the results are at once fragile , resolute and affecting . The music may occasionally be too whimsical and dramatic for some . But it pays generously to stick with Sue Rynhart ; there really is no one quite like her . <h> Aengus Hackett Trio : Aengus Hackett Trio ( Self-released ) <p> The Galway-based guitarist and composer Aengus Hackett creates music across an impressively wide range of genres , from jazz to folk , postrock , gamelan and synth pop ; he also has a parallel career as the electronic musician Penji . This debut release from his agile top-tier trio with the double bassist Derek Whyte and the drummer Matthew Jacobson focuses more on Hackett 's heartland jazz enthusiasms . Over 11 strong and rhythmically driven original tunes , the guitarist sounds both sweet-toned and gritty , straight-ahead and experimental ; Hackett always seems to be searching for an original line and perspective . An assured and ambitious album that delivers much and , for the future , promises even more . <p> Adjunct Ensemble is an experimental jazz collective led by the Belfast composer Jamie Thompson that had some critical success last year with the thrilling " collagist anti-opera " Sovereign Bodies/Ritual Taxonomy . That album forms the basis for this 2023 London Jazz Festival recording , which sees the ensemble slimmed down to a quintet of Thompson on piano and electronics with three leading Irish performers -- the poet Felispeaks , the tenor saxophonist Sam Comerford and the drummer Steve Davis -- plus the Newcastle bassist John Pope . Moving between spoken word , free jazz , deep grooves , sonic montages and more , the album asks : what can music do in the face of challenges such as migration and ecological destruction and horrors such as Gaza ? This is one , impassioned , response .
