<p> I 've never known a press conference like it . It was Tuesday of last week when eight Social Democrats proudly strolled onto the Plinth at Leinster House for what ought to have been something of a victory lap . Then , after four minutes of opening prelude and a few questions about government formation , Eoin Hayes is asked when he sold his shares in Palantir . <p> For other TDs this would have been a menial thing to answer -- if indeed it had come up at all . The Social Democrats , however , have made an electoral ploy of being new and squeaky-clean and not having any skeletons in their closet . They 've also been right-on when it comes to criticising Israel 's actions in Gaza . Hayes was to the fore on both . <p> But , as part of his pay deal with a former employer , he was granted shares in the company -- and that company , Palantir , has now become immensely valuable because of its contracts supplying software to the Israeli military . <p> Simply owning the shares only became problematic because the company 's conduct conflicted with Social Democrat policy -- but any tardiness on Hayes ' part would have been very lucrative . In the twelve months before getting elected , the share price has gone from $15 to $25 . <p> So it 's a germane question : when did he sell the shares ? <p> And that 's when it all went off the rails . Hayes ducked and dived for 23 minutes , refusing to state when precisely he had sold the shares , clearly raising some suspicion by his failure to give a straightforward answer to a straightforward question . In those 23 minutes , Hayes simply stated two things : that he had sold the shares once he 'd realised the extent of Palantir 's involvement in Israel , and that this had happened before his election to Dublin City Council . <p> And neither , as it turned out , were true . <p> I hope Hayes has been surrounded by good people in the last week -- for a relative novice , the level of attention will have been horrendous . But senior hurlers have to be honest . <p> Gavan Reilly is Political Correspondent with Virgin Media News and Political Columnist with the Meath Chronicle . Column appears first in Tuesday 's paper !
