<h> Fr Paddy Byrne : Emmanuel God is close <p> AS we prepare to celebrate the birth of Christ , I 'm conscious of all that we have to be grateful for . Many long for what so often we take for granted . The terrible tragedy of Israel and Gaza , the ongoing war in Ukraine and the persistent and life-destroying famine in East Africa are all the more shocking when we see their impact on the lives of children . <p> The terror of hunger , fear or maiming should be far from every child 's life and , yet , we see it daily in the media . Recently , pope Francis unveiled a nativity scene featuring a unique display crafted by Palestinian artisans from Bethlehem and featuring baby Jesus lying in a cradle wrapped in a Palestinian Keffiyeh . <p> During the event , the pope appealed for an end to the war , saying : " Enough wars , enough violence . Did you know that one of the most profitable industries here is weapons manufacturing ? Profit from killing . Enough wars . " Through his actions , the pope reminds us of the important role churches have in advocating for peace and showing solidarity with all those who are suffering , especially at this time of the year . It is right to reflect on these matters as we prepare to celebrate the birth of the baby who was God himself . <p> The world into which Jesus was born was as destructive to childhood as ours in many similar ways : hunger , homelessness , seeking and being refused refuge and being the victim of political leaders ' power struggles . There was no social media to carry the instant story and , yet , the events of Bethlehem and Nazareth have echoed down the years , changing people 's hearts from stone to flesh , their lives from hatred to love . As we prepare for Christmas , let us pray that the telling of the Christmas story will give us a new impetus to leave aside hatred , jealousy , judgemental attitudes and allow us to see the life-changing effect of letting love in . <p> The Christmas story began with Mary and her acceptance of her place in God 's plan . Human , like the rest of us , she could not see all that it would entail of joy and sorrow , but at the moment of the Annunciation , she was willing to let God 's love work through her . She was truly faithful in the sense that she trusted God and felt that great things could happen if she said yes . <p> As we prepare to celebrate Christmas , the challenge given to us is much smaller but no less significant . Can we say yes over the holiday period to children , to the elderly and to the lonely or recently bereaved ? Not just by giving material things but also by giving people our attention -- the gift of noticing them and making them feel visible and loved in the world . <p> Throughout his life , Jesus welcomed the outsider , the marginalised and assured them that being included was God 's plan for them . We will have plenty of opportunities to do this over Christmas and the year ahead . It is in small things , kind words , a welcoming smile , a helping hand that the Kingdom of God is found and our chance to build God 's Kingdom is when we take the opportunities to do that . <p> 2025 is a jubilee year . It 's hard to believe it is almost 25 years since we began the journey of the new millennium . The first quarter of a century has brought huge opportunity and challenge to humanity . Pope Francis has called this jubilee a year of hope . In an often-troubled world , hope will always prevail for the Christian people . Hope in the promise that we are not alone , our God is very near and in him all things will be well . Hope that soon even the winter darkness will once again be but a memory , when we anticipate the birth and new life and green shoots of the new spring . Hope because God 's presence is alive and active in the many actions of compassion and kindness that are part and parcel of our daily lives . Hope is , indeed , one of the great Christian virtues and my prayer is that this new jubilee year there will be anointing of great hope in all our lives . <p> We are at a time of great change in the Church -- as pope Francis calls it , a change of era -- but we can look forward with hope to God doing great things in all our lives . With that thought in our hearts and minds , let us see in Mary , God 's mother , a model for journeying in faith without knowing where the journey will take us . I pray we will all be filled with hope and the joy of Christmas , the confidence to see that God is at work in every person and the courage to fearlessly bring about change in the time and place where we live . May the Lord fill us with health of body and peace of mind this Christmas .
