<p> As 2024 comes to an end , we 're taking a look at some of the biggest issues shaping our world -- as part of the Whole Hog End of Year Special . <p> 2024 was a mixed bag . It was the year of the Olympiad ; of painting the town Brat green ; of feuds abated ( the Gallagher brothers ) and feuds created ( Kendrick Lamar v. Drake ) ; of blockbuster movies ; of sell-out world tours and so much more . <p> In many ways , it was a good year to be Irish . Readers all over the world restlessly awaited the arrival of Sally Rooney 's fourth novel , Intermezzo . Team Ireland performed excellently at the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris and brought home the hardware with four gold and three bronze medals . Irish filmmakers claimed the spotlight during awards season , marking another huge year for Irish cinema . <p> The Irish-produced Poor Things made history at this year 's Academy Awards with four wins . In a milestone that surprised no one , Cillian Murphy won Best Actor at the Oscars for his performance as the complicated physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer in Christopher Nolan 's titular film . Andrew Scott , Paul Mescal and Barry Keoghan were also nominated ... <p> Mescal received even more buzz this year after portraying a rhino-fighting warrior in Gladiator II . Saoirse Ronan established herself as film royalty with two uncompromising performances in The Outrun , which she also produced , and Steve McQueen 's Blitz . After four previous Acadeny nominations , we 're keeping our fingers crossed that 2025 might see Ronan finally bag an Oscar . <p> It is no secret that Kneecap -- our Phenomenon of the Year -- were the surprise new stars of 2024 . They unleashed their acclaimed debut album , sold out venues across the globe , and released their eponymous biopic -- which received racve reviews and took the Irish Language revival to even greater heights . They remained politically active , protesting against Israel 's murderous war unleashed on Gaza and its people . <h> Advertisement <p> Further afield , Challengers , featured a sporty , complex love triangle portrayed by Zendaya , Josh O'Connor and Mike Faist . It was hailed as an erotic tennis romp that shook headlines and social media , throwing the ' Tenniscore ' aesthetic headlong into cultural consciousness . <p> Sequels , meanwhile , were all the rage , with the Tim Burton classic Beetlejuice being rebooted as Beetlejuice Beetlejuice ; the Dune saga receiving its second film instalment ; Gladiator ( 2001 ) being revisited for Gladiator II ; Mad Max returning in Furiosa : A Mad Max Saga ; and DC Comics thriller Joker : Folie ? Deux hitting the screens . <p> In other news , Oasis announced their long-awaited reunion with a massive world tour to toast the 30th anniversary of their debut album Definitely Maybe , signalling that the Gallagher brothers had finally squashed their beef . Their return was marred by a controversy over dynamic pricing with the massive demand to see them live pushing ticket prices into the stratosphere . <p> While some feuds were quelled , others seemed to drag on incessantly . Kendrick Lamar and Drake got themselves into a lyrical death match , following years of Cold War-style jabs . In March , the rappers went nuclear , releasing not just diss-tracks that topped the charts and made headlines , but also a flurry of allegations and legal suits . <p> However , the biggest cultural trend of the year was indisputably Brat , spawned by Charli XCX 's excellent chart-raiding album of the same name . The record defined a moment with its fluorescent lime-green colour turning up everywhere , as club goers and political candidates alike declared their own " brat summer " . " Brat " was named the Collins Dictionary Word of the Year . But , sadly , tacking to the trend was n't enough to win the US Presidential election for Kamala Harris . <p> Taylor Swift 's Eras tour arrived in Ireland and was an enormous success , on its way to generating $2.2billion in ticket revenues . Coldplay 's Music Of The Spheres World tour was also in the supernova league -- but really , between Taylor , Beyonce , Charli , Lana and Billie , it was a woman 's world in pop music in 2024 ... <p> Read the full Whole Hog End of Year Special in the Hot Press Annual 2025 -- out now :
