<h> The US president is a once-in-a-lifetime master manipulator of the unseen energies that sway the electorate <p> A magnificent , treacherous blast of true winter arrived in Iowa on the same week as Donald Trump did . When he flew into Des Moines for a Fox News televised " town hall " event on Wednesday , January 10th , the upper Midwest had been under a blizzard of snow and wind since Monday afternoon . Iowa has the apparatus to cope with weather events but still , the television announcers were excited by the dramatic unfolding . Fifty crashes ! Seven hundred ploughs ! Impassable roads ! The coldest Iowa caucuses on record ! In Des Moines , the streets in what should have been rush hour were ghostly and most of the coffee shops and bars were closed : the only moving thing at rush-hour dusk was a freight train rolling at turtle 's pace through the city-centre track , sounding its eerie air horn . <p> Iowans are accustomed to becoming this four-year national wonder , with presidential aspirants and star television broadcasters swooping in to give the city economy a January boost . But this was different . Quieter . Joe Biden would return as Democratic nominee , with no realistic opposition . Trump had declined to participate in the Republican primary debates . His strategy was to leave the pretenders -- Vivek Ramaswamy , Nikki Haley and Ron De Santis -- to chatter and squabble among themselves and to then burn them off with a decisive win in Iowa . The televised town-hall event was underwhelming : the ballroom was like an airport hangar and lacked the crowd energy on which Trump thrives . The cold was bone-chilling and the night ominous . <p> One Iowan , Rebekah Hayney , had driven an hour from Ogden ( population 1,659 ) because she wanted to see , in person , what Trump had to say about the issue that mattered most to her : pro-life . She was n't looking forward to the midnight drive back in -20 degree weather and her plan was to call her husband and have him on loud speaker as she drove . But it was important to her to be there . <p> " I 'm trying to do the best I can with my vote , " she said , explaining why she thought abortion would become one of the defining issues of the election . <p> " It has to . Because you have a war of federalism . I hate to bring up civil war comparisons but that has happened in the past where we divided along human rights lines . And you had neighbouring states where one said : this is a human being . And the other side said : they are property . And legally ... I do n't know how you can be on the wrong side of this issue again . And that is what is being set up right now . You have states like Florida and Iowa that have enacted heartbeat legislation that are moving towards life at conception . You have states like New York and California that are openly pro-abortion and have no limits whatsoever and will entertain no limits . So those things ca n't really coexist , I do n't think , without it coming to a head . " <p> This was at a stage when everyone , including the participants , were trying to figure out what the American election was about . The abortion issue and the repeal of Roe v Wade would become an intense ideological divide . The border issue and the influx of undocumented immigrants under the Biden administration looked set to become another dominant issue . In spring , intense protests over the US military sponsorship of the slaughter in Gaza would sweep through America 's rarefied college campuses . <p> The swirl of harsh American weather and history had been on Biden 's mind , too , when he set out on the campaign trail with a speech at Valley Forge , on January 5th . He spoke of George Washington 's march through a bitter winter to face British empire troops lacking sufficient food and clothing , " a ragtag army made up of ordinary people " ... " this army whose march left bloody , bare footprints in the snow " with a mission that Washington declared was , Biden quoted , " nothing less than ' a sacred cause ' . " <p> A campaign video for Kamala Harris appears behind Donald Trump during one of his rallies , in Las Vegas , in September . Photograph : Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> Biden told people that on the eve of the third anniversary of the Capitol Hill riots , something similar was at stake 246 years after Washington 's heroics . <p> " Whether democracy is still America 's sacred cause is the most urgent question of our time , and it 's what the 2024 election is all about . The choice is clear . Donald Trump 's campaign is about him , not America , not you . Donald Trump 's campaign is obsessed with the past , not the future . He 's willing to sacrifice our democracy , put himself in power . Our campaign is different . For me and Kamala , our campaign is about America . It 's about you . It 's about every age and background that occupy this country . It 's about the future we 're going to continue to build together . " <p> As a broiling summer of record temperatures settled over the states , it felt as if the election was invaded by the spirit of a poltergeist <p> Biden 's sentiments -- lofty , soaring , grave -- echoed the evening conversations of the commentariat . This would be a battle for a soul of the nation , all right . Nobody seemed to notice that in the grocery stores , Americans were more caught up in the more elemental battle of paying for their weekly cart of food or filling their cars with fuel . For many , routine luxuries were cut , and it made them miserable . In Iowa , Trump had offered a retort to his adversary which he would repeat at rallies through the year . <p> " He 's a threat to democracy because he 's incompetent , " he said , accusing the president of orchestrating the four legal cases he was facing . <p> " He 's corrupted . He 's incompetent . He has no idea ... He weaponised the DOJ and the FBI . " <p> Trump was in dark , brooding form on his winter campaign in the Midwest . The year ahead , defined by the physical , financial and psychological burden of those trials , was weighing on him . But he crushed all pretense of a plausible Republican alternative by winning 98 out of the 99 counties in Iowa . Haley would hang around for another stubborn seven weeks , enduring Trump 's mocking taunt of " Birdbrain " and angering him by claiming that he was " chaos " . <p> But those 10 days of the Iowa snow served as a coda for the year ahead . Trump dominated the news and sucked up extraordinary volumes of oxygen . The Biden campaign was inevitably low key as the 80-year-old got on with the job of being president while waiting for the August convention to roll around . All the time , concern about his age flashed amber in approval ratings . <p> By mid-April , Trump was setting out on a daily trudge to an unglamorous courtroom in Centre Street in lower Manhattan for his " hush money " trial . The gathering outside on the first morning was a 21st-century carnival of supporters and protesters . Arch Trump supporter and conspiracy theorist Laura Loomer was there , chanting through a loudspeaker and warning : " We are going to be here every single day talking to you fake news media freaks and letting you know that Donald Trump did nothing wrong . " Nearby , a flautist in a spangly waistcoat and with a huge banner declaring the former president to be a draft-dodger , played the Yankee Doodle Dandy . Andrew Guiliani , the son of former New York mayor-turned-Trumpite Rudy Giuliani , was in the square that morning too . <p> " He still has a great love and affection for New York . This is where Donald Trump became Donald Trump . I think a lot will be about what does the jury selection process looks like . If it 's fair , Donald Trump gets acquitted . The case is far too weak , it never should have been brought , " he said . <p> Seven weeks later , Trump was found guilty on all 34 counts . Sentencing was delayed . The moment deepened the sense of America locked into a presidential election choice which the vast majority of the electorate dreaded . Two historically old candidates , trading verbal blows ; accusation and counteraccusation . The mood was heavy and weary . <p> But as a broiling summer of record temperatures settled over the states , it felt as if the election was invaded by the spirit of a poltergeist . The phenomenal series of events of June , July and August hardly need recounting . First came Biden 's implosion in his televised debate against Trump in Atlanta on June 28th . Republican surrogates were ecstatic when they entered the " spin room " afterwards . " They 're a-ridin ' with Biden , " proclaimed Matt Gaetz with mock glee . Nothing could spoil senator Lindsey Graham 's good mood , not even the impertinence of a British reporter who demanded of the South Carolinian , in clipped tones : " Is this the best America 's got ? " Graham looked surprised before offering a drawled reply . " I think we 're doing pretty good . Where you from ? You 're tellin ' me about a country ? With your government ? " <p> Then came the volley of bullets , on July 13th , across a true-blue summer sky in Pennsylvania . Thomas Crooks , the 20-year-old gunman , intervened on the election like a phantom : he turned up at the routine Saturday rally in Butler , found a vantage point on the roof of a storage shed , missed Trump 's head by millimetres , killed an innocent attendee , and was shot dead by snipers seconds later . Crooks left an unusually light digital imprint behind and the motivation for his assassination attempt remains obscure . Although Trump would repeatedly describe the moment when the bullet fizzed past his ear , he has seldom if ever mentioned his assailant by name . <p> Two nights later , Trump made a messianic entrance at the first night of the Republican national convention in Milwaukee . He had named JD Vance , the senator from Ohio who had once been a virulent critic , as his running mate . Vance was an unknown quantity , with his startling blue eyes , his newly acquired beard and his bestselling memoir , Hillbilly Elegy . He was a symbol of the new Republican Party , reimagined in Trump 's image with none of the gilded families -- the Bushes , the Romneys , the Cheneys -- to be seen . The feeling all week was of a coronation . The election was over . <p> Donald Trump at the first day of the Republican national convention in Milwaukee in July , in the wake of a failed assassination attempt on him . Photograph : Brendan Smialowski/AFP via Getty Images <p> And then a new election began . Biden 's decision to drop out , on Sunday July 21st , after an intense period of reflection over a gloomy weekend in Rehoboth , had an instant , transformative effect . The Republican chorus cried foul . Kamala Harris shook off three years of incessantly negative media coverage to marshal a breathtakingly swift and organised campaign culminating in a starry August convention in Chicago that outshone the Republican week for pure euphoria . " Joy " became the adopted theme word . Oprah yodelled it when she made an appearance . Hakeem Jeffries , the House minority leader , used it in a riff that drew on the Psalms . ( ' Weeping may endure for a night , but joy comes in the morning ' ) . <p> But Swift is nothing if not the savviest businesswoman in North America . She maintained a regal distance from Harris . Unlike Beyonc ? and Bruce and J-Lo , she never actually appeared with the candidate . The celebrity endorsements rolled in for the Harris campaign , but this was an election that may have burst the bubble on the old delusion of Hollywood star power . <p> Trump , meanwhile , had acquired a disparate collection of celebrity toys as he went . Hulk Hogan , the ageing wrestling phenom , remained a cheerleader all through , showing up at the convention wearing a fantastical shade of bronze and a red vest that he started to rip off before thinking better of it ( The A/C in the Fiserv Arena was a tad icy , and the Hulk is 71 now ) . And by late summer , Trump had Elon Musk galumphing around the stage with him . <p> Soon , he would have Sly Stallone , the doe-eyed A-lister boasting a set of biceps that America first met during the Ford administration , in his corner . He even picked up a stray Kennedy , bringing Robert F Kennedy jnr into the fold after the 70-year-old ended his campaign as an Independent . This was an acquisition that delighted Trump and , sometimes when they were together on stage , you could catch Trump staring at Bobby 's ageing kid , almost smitten . Together , this confederacy represented a sort of off-kilter machismo . By early autumn , the polling surveys were incessant . Nobody knew if they could be trusted -- and they gave no big news anyway . But the signs were that Trump 's bravura macho carnival was attracting a growing number of young American men , the most elusive category . <p> That Philadelphia debate might have been Harris 's finest hour -- and might also have been the moment when Trump decided to trust his instinct rather than his advisers . The rally speeches became more explicit and dark and epically long . America was a joke . Murderers , rapists and the insane were piling over the border . In Springfield , Ohio , " they 're eating the dogs " . The attacks on Harris bordered on the unhinged : in September alone , Trump referred to her as " retarded " , " mentally impaired " and a " dummy . " <p> The Maga-Republican supporters may have revelled in this stuff , but tens of millions other Republican voters just gritted their teeth and put up with it in the belief that for all his violent rhetoric , Trump would divert America from the disastrous path of deregulation and open borders and put them first again . If they listened closely , they could build something lovely and alluring from his words : a return to the era when an honest working wage could buy a house and support a family -- and still have enough to put away for small luxuries , for Saturday night beers , for the future . Their tiny precious slice of the American dream and to go on pursuing happiness . <p> In late October , I found myself in the livingroom of Ngoc Tran and Kevin Moynihan . They live on Summit Avenue , in St Paul , Minnesota , which is one of the more gorgeous residential streets in America . The governor 's mansion , where Tim Walz resides , was just down the road . More fascinatingly , the house where F Scott Fitzgerald had spent his unhappy adolescence and wrote the first draft of Tender Is The Night , was two doors down . The sun was bright , the leaves sparkled , and the Halloween decor was the last word in subtlety . Like many Americans , the Moynihans are deeply hospitable -- did I , a blank stranger , need a place to stay while in St Paul ? Should they cook ? <p> I was there to listen to the couple explain why they had turned full circle from ardent Democratic voters to Trump-voting Republicans . <p> The couple are a classic American story . Ngoc 's family came from Vietnam as " boat people " in October 1979 . <p> " I was 16 . It was wonderful , " she told me in perfect , lightly accented English . <p> " First of all , when we escaped and got to Malaysia we were in a refugee camp for 9 ? months . That was n't so pretty . And we were very hopeful and focused when we came here . But we adjusted quite quickly when we came here . My mother back in 1956 came to Minnesota for college and got a Master 's in Loyola . So , in the refugee camp she wrote to the dean of the school and they sponsored our family . And I ended up going to the same college as my mother , St Catherine University . " <p> Ngoc met Kevin in his home city of Boston . They lived in LA for a while and then decided on St Paul , where they raised two girls who are now through college . They continue to enjoy good careers as insurance professionals . Kevin has n't lost the Boston brogue nor the city 's line in acidic humour . He talks about the moment he began to feel isolated not just from the Democratic Party but from the liberal , progressive national conversation . <p> More than 155 million Americans cast their vote in 2024 . But a further 89 million people simply did not bother . What does that mass indifference say about the soul of America ? <p> " When Hillary Clinton announced she was running , I could n't believe they put her up . It was Bush-Clinton , these constant same people . We watched CNN all the time then . And we went to a Bernie Sanders rally in St Paul . And we really liked a lot of what he said . But CNN had Trump on every night . And it was only CNN . And they were clearly mocking him at the same time . And I thought at times : wait , he makes a good point here . I did not vote for him because I thought he had no chance , that it would be a Clinton landslide . But Trump won ! And the next day I switched to Fox because I felt I had been lied to . I was really disillusioned at that point . " <p> In the years since , Kevin found himself calling out what he sees as Democratic shortcomings and hypocrisies on Facebook posts . He says he has lost a lot of his old high school pals back in Boston . And in St Paul , too . It 's a heavily Democratic city , but the couple share concerns with the way it has been governed and what they see as the hollowing-out of the once-thriving city centre . <p> The easier thing to do would be to stay quiet and say the right things . Instead , they no longer go to the charity cocktail parties they once had . That 's fine with Kevin . All four of his grandparents came from Ireland -- grandmothers from Leitrim and Roscommon and both grandfathers from Kerry . His second cousin is the Kerry footballer Dara Moynihan . Last year , the couple visited all four homesteads . It was , he says " the trip of a lifetime " . <p> " And I made it happen , " Ngoc jokes . Kevin laughs that , at 60 , he is content to become an urban version of the isolated Kerry hillside farmers of old . <p> " You know , Ngoc 's mom grew up in Hanoi and they fled the communists after World War two and then left Saigon . She said about this election : this is my third time and it feels very similar to the first two . I think of us as turning more like Europe -- into a Democratic social movement . We do n't mind paying taxes -- at all . But it seems like everything has been taken to the extreme . And that is the problem . " <p> About a week before the election , on a sublime evening in Washington , about 70,000 people turned up to try to see Harris speak at the Ellipse . The energy around the city was incredible : it felt like a popular movement with an irresistible momentum . Just a 10-minute walk away , among the many splendours to be found in the nearby museums , is a military costume worn by George Washington himself , and various artefacts recovered from that bitter winter in Valley Forge that Biden mentioned . <p> Washington city is the nation 's capital but it had also become Trump 's symbol of a fallen country : the complacent , corrupt meddlesome heart of bureaucratic mediocrity . With Musk , the world 's richest man by his side , he promised he would rip it up and start again . <p> A man shows his support for Donald Trump near his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach , Florida on November 13th . Photograph : Joe Raedle/Getty Images <p> Long before midnight on November 5th , it was clear that Trump would return for a second term in the White House . Even his harshest critics acknowledged that Trump is a once-in-a-lifetime master manipulator of the unseen energies that sway the electorate . The victory places Trump among those rare political figures to have loomed over the American political landscape and society for a dozen-plus years . He is in the process of changing America in ways that will reverberate through the country long after he is dead . <p> The mood in Howard University on election night , where a predominantly black crowd had gathered in the hope of witnessing a historic moment , turned funereal . The quietness after midnight was terribly dignified and sad . Harris did not appear on stage until Wednesday afternoon , when she gave an upbeat concession speech . By then , the inquest had begun . <p> In the following weeks , it was argued that Harris was the wrong candidate . It was argued that she ran the best campaign imaginable over the course of 100 days . Biden was blamed for not getting out of the road earlier . The argument that Harris did n't win because of an underlying strain of sexism and racism at the heart of American society was forwarded . <p> An existential internal Democratic reckoning was under way . Who was the party even for any more ? Almost half of Latino voters and a quarter of black men who voted did so for Trump . He had cut into Democratic strongholds such as New York . He won the White House , the House , the Senate and had already reshaped the supreme court in his last term . <p> The most significant figure was the one least mentioned . More than 155 million Americans cast their vote in 2024 . But a further 89 million people simply did not bother . What does that mass indifference -- or despair , or alienation -- say about the soul of America ? <p> Joe Biden and Donald Trump in the Oval Office of the White House in November . Photograph : AP Photo/Evan Vucci <p> On November 13th , Trump returned to the White House for the first time since 2021 . He sat with Biden in the Oval office in front of a blazing , needless fire -- it was an unseasonably hot day . <p> It is no great thing to have grace in victory , but Trump seemed a little humbled by Biden 's old-fashioned show of largesse . <p> " Politics is tough and in many cases it 's not a very nice world , " Trump offered . <p> " But it is a nice world today , and I appreciate very much a transition that 's so smooth . " <p> A nice world today . After all those months of poisoned political discourse , the moment carried a shocking echo of a more refined and civil tradition among American presidential figures of the past . Here they were , the two ageing men who have become the figureheads of the unbreachable divide among Americans . Sitting upright in their dark , tailored suits , the bust of the late Robert F Kennedy looking on in the background . Biden and Trump . Together at last . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
