<h> Parenting in My Shoes : Former minister reflects on the early ' mad ' days of parenting and cherished moments of raising seven children <p> Fatherhood took Michael McGrath , former minister for finance and father of seven , by surprise first time around . " He was a very welcome surprise , " Michael explains of his eldest son . <p> Summer of Family : This summer , parents are looking for tips , advice and information on how to help their children thrive during the holiday months . You can read all about it at **33;459;TOOLONG <p> " We got such a shock that it took another five years to have the next one , " he says jokingly . " He came along in the early days of the relationship and like any new parents you 're struggling with all the basics . We were very fortunate we had a home . Sarah was splitting her time between there and her parents ' house for a while . " <p> McGrath says he was " fairly clueless " about parenthood . " I was young by today 's standards . I was a 25-year-old dad and I was a total greenhorn , I 'll be the first to admit . I did the best I could , but I wo n't claim to have done most of the heavy lifting . <p> " It 's a huge shock when you become a parent for the first time , especially at a young age . I remember one time we went down to Killarney . He was a small baby and we got a night away . We went to a hotel and we had our evening meal early in the evening . We were back in the room by 8 o'clock and I thought , ' this is it , this is the night , it 's over -- this is the reality ' . " <p> There was never " a grand plan " to have a big family , McGrath says . " We have been incredibly lucky , and cherish all of our children , but it would be wrong to say that there was a grand plan and that it was executed to perfection . " <p> The road to having seven children has n't been without its own challenges and sadness , he says . " Nothing is ever as it seems . We 've ended up with seven children , but we had loss along the way , including in the second trimester . Our children are like other children . Different abilities , different challenges that you try and help them with along the way . It has n't been smooth and nothing is ever as it seems . " <p> Michael and Sarah lost a baby during the second trimester of pregnancy . He was a little boy they named Daniel . " I remember holding him , " he says . " Even though it was only second trimester , it was a little baby . It will always stay with you . We 're just so , so fortunate that you feel guilty even talking about any loss because we have so , so much . " <p> The early days of parenthood , with so many children , were " mad " , McGrath says . " When you look back you wonder how did we do it . You 're just surviving . You 're living in the moment . You 're trying to enjoy it . You 're doing the best you can . But you 're constantly juggling . Sarah is a superwoman to be honest . She is an amazing mum and has a serious professional career in her own right . I do n't know how she manages to do it all so well . " <p> McGrath 's children range in age from 22 to eight years old . " We kind of have three families within the one . Jack is five years older than the others . Then we had four in a row . And then we have two younger kids . We had four boys first , so we were thrilled to have a daughter , Ruth . She was our fifth . I think we definitely wanted her to have a sister . But it took a while to get there . " <p> Comments are often passed by people in relation to his family size , McGrath explains . " Some funny , some not so funny , but I just think we 're extraordinarily lucky to have the family that we have . I have no doubt some people just do n't agree with having that many children and can let it be known in different ways from time to time . <p> " I always just say , whether you 've two or three , they 'll take as much time as you can give them . Having more just means you 're spreading yourself more thinly . You 're able to give them less . But they 're able to give each other something as well . Because there 's going to be a difference in age -- they feed off each other , and that 's important to us . We 've always encouraged them to remain close , and to be friends . <p> Tom , Ruth , Jack and Michael . <p> " I would have no tolerance for any falling out or argument . I 've just seen too much of it in life . Too many families where relationships among siblings break down and there 's animosity . I 've told them I 'll come back and haunt them if they ever fall out with each other . I want them to be close . I call it Team McGrath , that 's what I say in the house . I just hope they 're listening . " <p> He says people 's surprise at the size of his family is largely because it 's so unusual now . " I 'm really conscious for many people , financially , it was not an option , and is n't an option today . In some cases , to have children at all , and in other cases to have more than one or two . And then , of course , you have fertility issues . The fact that relationships are being formed much later in life . It 's going to become even more unusual into the future . " <p> Having seven children means " none of them get everything that they want . There 's a lot of sharing , a lot of compromising , a lot of fighting in the usual way . I certainly try to give them a sense of the value of money . <p> " We 've no tolerance for waste and we 're careful about the decisions we make . They 're going to have to make their own way in the world . Our view is we 'll give them the opportunity to go on and do what they want to do . Whether they take it is up to themselves , or what path they choose . There wo n't be a big inheritance . That 's the reality . " <p> Ten years ago , McGrath lost his brother Se ? n . " He died suddenly and it hit us all really hard . I cried myself to sleep for a lot of nights after that . It shook me to the core . Just the finality of it . <p> " When you have your own family , you have no option but to continue on and do the simple things . But I think it does give you a deeper and more balanced perspective on life and what matters . " <p> In the age of social media , McGrath has had to try to navigate the pressure of protecting his children from the need to be " always on " , and some of the unkind comments that have been directed towards him . " Maintaining a healthy lifestyle , given the job that I do , is a challenge . You 'd see comments online from time to time about your appearance , and about your weight . And that can be hurtful . I 'm a human . I struggle like everybody else . <p> " My downtime is through my kids . It 's being on the sideline with them , watching them . And I love nothing more , that 's how I relax . But it does take a conscious effort to find time for yourself and to mind yourself . " <p> His children seeing unkind comments about him is " a genuine worry " . <p> " They did n't choose a life in politics . It was imposed on them . I have a reasonably thick skin . I can take the criticism , personally . But I am conscious of what they see and how it affects them . Nobody likes to see abusive content , or vulgar content sometimes , about their parent online . You would hate to think that they would be at any time embarrassed , or a friend pass a comment . Against that , you balance the fact that , I think , they take pride in what you do . " <p> Sarah and Michael with a young David and Jack . <p> McGrath says his children are interested in the world around them . " They might say , ' what 's the story in Gaza ? ' ' What 's the government doing to help those people ? ' ' Can you not do more to solve homelessness ? ' They raise questions and challenge me , and that 's what I would encourage . " <p> Last week , the Fianna F ? il representative for Cork South-Central -- the same constituency as T ? naiste , and party leader , Miche ? l Martin -- was nominated as Ireland 's next European commissioner , which brings with it a large salary increase on his TD pay . <p> He says although it 's the " honour of my life to be a D ? il representative " , he 's " torn " on whether or not he 'd like his children to follow his footsteps into politics . " I recognise the real value of politics and of public service , but I do see the other side , the sacrifice that inevitably you have to make . And the toxicity that is there , nowadays , primarily on social media . And the risk to one 's safety , which is unavoidable . I would n't discourage it , but I would explain to them exactly what the life is like . " <p> He admits politics can be a lonely life on occasion . " I remember being elected in 2007 ... and I really struggled in those early weeks . I struggled being away from home with two young kids at the time . I really questioned myself and I found it very difficult . I think I was just lonely . And that 's the reality . I think it 's a very different job if you 're able to go home as a TD in the evening . But if you 're based in Cork , or Galway or Donegal , you do n't have that opportunity to go home every day . <p> " I do remember those very early weeks thinking to myself , ' God , you 've achieved your dream . Are you sure it 's what you really want ? ' Because you 're missing out on things that can never be repeated . You can never make up for the events or occasions that you miss . <p> " I 've missed awards nights in schools , concerts in the lead-up to Christmas , many birthdays , lots of sporting occasions . It 's just part of the price you pay , but the prize is you can make a difference . " <p> Michael with Luke , Kate and Tom . <p> McGrath says his kids recognise how much he misses , and " really feel it " , if he 's away an extra day , particularly if it crosses into a weekend ( which is when he usually gets home ) as that could mean two weeks between seeing them . <p> Fatherhood and politics have crossed over even on the most unexpected occasion , McGrath says . " There really is never getting away from politics . I remember one time we took the kids on the annual Santa visit . The visit was all going fine . Santa asked their names and ages and what they were looking for . And then he just turns to them and says , ' you should tell your dad now that Santa does not agree with any water charges . There should be no charges for water . Do you hear me now ? ' And the kids said yes . <p> " And there was I , on the one hand smiling , and on the other hand gritting my teeth , " he explains , laughing at the recollection . <p> Christmas is a " magical time " , not least because it 's a time that McGrath gets to properly switch off . " We have this ritual every year of being at the bottom of the stairs . They 're all gathered at the top of the stairs , and telling them he came . And we record it on the camera , and those first few couple of minutes , going through the presents . And the joy and the pureness of it is something very special . " <p> Michael and Sarah with the children and Santa . <p> McGrath says he has become more relaxed about parenting over time , as he 's learned the value of what really matters . " It 's about being there for them , knowing that they can talk to us about anything , at any time . " <p> While all seven children are currently living at home , his eldest son , Jack will be working in Dublin later in the year and McGrath is conscious of the change that will bring . " It 's sad in many ways . Getting everyone together , even for a holiday , is going to get harder in the future . Not having everyone together is a little bit sad . " <p> Michael with his dad Jack . <p> The highs of parenthood for McGrath are " just being together , with the phones put away . Having the craic . Having a chat . " <p> The lows , meanwhile , include " missing out on things " , and seeing them " crying or upset " , he says . " I think you feel that pain and you carry that as a parent yourself . So , you want to try and minimise that and make them as happy as possible . But you know you ca n't fully protect them . You ca n't insulate them from the world in which we live . They have to find it as they see it . "
