<h> From Gaza to Ukraine and beyond , 2024 was the year of wars <p> The year witnessed a staggering 30 percent increase in fatalities compared to 2023 , with conflicts raging in several parts of the globe . <p> Murat Sofuoglu <p> AA <p> Israel 's brutality on Gaza has not stopped in 2024 . Photo : AA <p> As the year draws to a close , Israel 's violent assaults on Palestinians persist across Gaza as well as the occupied West Bank . Meanwhile , there are no signs of a ceasefire between Ukraine and Russia , leaving their prolonged conflict unresolved . <p> In Gaza and the occupied West Bank , the bloodshed has reached unprecedented levels . Over 35,000 Palestinians were killed in 2024 , marking the deadliest year since the Israeli invasion and Zionist aggression began in 1948 . Ukraine , too , has endured its bloodiest chapter , with 67,000 deaths recorded on both sides of the conflict . <p> In Lebanon , a fragile 60-day ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel has held since late November . However , nearly 4,000 Lebanese have already been killed this year , and the Netanyahu government has repeatedly violated the truce with targeted strikes under different pretexts . <p> Syria experienced a surprising turn of events in late November , with an unexpected opposition offensive abruptly toppling the Assad regime after 11 days of an intense campaign . Since then , the country has largely remained uncharacteristically calm despite its long history of Baathist repression . <p> Overall , 2024 marked a bloody year , with 233,000 people killed , an increase of 30 percent compared to the previous year , according to the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data ( ACLED ) project . Fatal acts of violence have doubled since 2019 , leaving one in eight people exposed to conflict . Among these , Palestinians endured " the highest level of violence " , according to ACLED . <p> Here is a summary of the year 's developments in four major conflicts : Gaza , Lebanon , Ukraine and Syria . <p> Gaza onslaught <p> The year 2024 stands as the most harrowing chapter in the history of Palestinian suffering , surpassing a century of Zionist repression and massacres . <p> AP Archive <p> Reda Abu Zarada wraps herself and her grandchildren in blankets as they prepare to sleep in their tent at a camp in Khan Younis , Gaza on Dec. 19 , 2024 . Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana <p> Amid the relentless violence , there is a glimmer of hope for a ceasefire between Hamas and Israel as negotiators from both sides convene in Qatar . <p> Last week , Israel Katz , the Israeli defence minister , described the current stage of talks as " the closest we 've been to a hostage deal since the last deal " , referencing the November 2023 agreement that secured the release of more than 100 Israeli hostages in exchange for Palestinian prisoners . <p> Despite these developments , analysts remain sceptical that Israel 's occupation of Gaza will end . A recent New York Times report revealed that Israel has constructed 19 military bases across the Mediterranean enclave . Furthermore , Israeli forces have established a military build-up in central Gaza , effectively dividing the northern and southern regions . <p> Kamel Hawwash , a Palestinian professor , writer and political analyst , views Israel 's expanding military footprint as a sign of " prolonged " occupation . " Israel will stay wherever it wants because who 's going to push it out of any part of Gaza , " Hawwash tells TRT World , referring to the US and Western support to Tel Aviv . <p> Shortly after October 7 , Israeli leaders suggested intentions to expel Palestinians entirely from Gaza . While Hawwash is hesitant to call the ongoing operation an attempt at the total elimination of Palestinians from Gaza , he asserts that Israel has " quickly realised that with the support from the US and the UK , they had that they could do anything . " <p> Since October 2023 , Israeli attacks have killed more than 45,000 Palestinians including 14,500 youngsters , wounding more than 106,000 . " Virtually all 1.1 million children in Gaza are in urgent need of protection and mental health support , " said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell , in a social media post . <p> Ukraine war <p> 2024 has also marked a brutal year for Russia-Ukraine hostilities . While Russian forces have had an upper hand over Kiev , making substantial gains and marching across eastern Ukrainian territories , Volodymyr Zelenskyy 's government also initiated an unexpected counteroffensive , occupying parts of the Kursk region in Russia proper , in response to intensified attacks from Moscow . <p> AP <p> A destroyed Russian tank sits on a roadside near the town of Sudzha , Russia , in the Kursk region , on Aug. 16 , 2024 . <p> But last week , a dramatic development unfolded in Moscow when an explosion near the Kremlin killed a top Russian general , Igor Kirillov , who led the military 's radiological , chemical and biological department . Ukraine claimed responsibility for the attack . <p> According to Sergei Markov , a Russian political scientist and a former advisor to Vladimir Putin , Kirillov was targeted by not only Ukraine but also Americans due to the Russian general 's campaign against US chemical and biological activities in Ukrainian territory . " It was American revenge against him , " Markov tells TRT World . <p> In 2022 , during a speech , Kirillov described Pentagon 's Ukraine activities as part of " a front for illegal military and biological research " , accusing US Democratic Party members of funding bioweapons activities in Ukraine . " I would like to refer to one of the key Pentagon contractors receiving money from Hunter Biden 's investment fund , Metabiota , " he said . <p> Ukraine , in turn , accused Kirillov of deploying chemical munitions against its population . <p> 2024 also marked an important Ukrainian cross-border operation against Russia 's Kursk region , marking what the Wall Street Journal described as " the first foreign invasion of Russian territory since World War II " . This operation aimed to demonstrate Kiev 's resilience and its need for continued Western military support despite Russian advances in eastern Ukraine . <p> Kursk , historically significant as the site of the largest armoured battle during WWII between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union , became a symbolic battlefield once again in 2024 . The operation was a clear message from the Zelenskyy government to NATO countries : Ukraine remains capable of fighting back and deserving of increased arms supplies . <p> Israeli war on Lebanon <p> This year Israeli aggression extended beyond Gaza to Lebanon , a neighbouring state that has endured decades of invasions and cross-border attacks by Tel Aviv . <p> Israel 's campaign on Lebanon began in September with pagers and walkie-talkies explosions , a covert tactic that killed scores of people and wounded thousands . Last month , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accepted that Israel was behind the deadly attacks . <p> AA <p> Israeli aerial attacks on Lebanon have caused much destruction across the country . <p> Then , Israeli aerial attacks on Lebanon were launched , killing Hezbollah 's top commanders and senior political figures . In late September , the group 's longtime leader Hassan Nasrallah was killed in an Israeli strike , alongside Hashem Safieddine , a top Hezbollah figure , who was expected to replace Nasrallah , in early October . <p> In October , Israeli ground forces also entered Lebanon as a first since the 2006 military engagement between Hezbollah and Tel Aviv , marking the Zionist state 's sixth occupation of the small Mediterranean state . The Israeli occupation and strikes killed thousands of Lebanese , wounding more than 16,000 people . <p> On November 27 , Hezbollah and Israel reached a ceasefire deal as both sides declared victory for their own reasons . However , the fragile truce has been marred by more than 200 violations by Israeli forces , according to Lebanese authorities . <p> End of Assad regime <p> Despite all kinds of bloodshed across the year , 2024 has also marked the end of Syria 's Baathist autocracy , led by Bashar al-Assad . The regime 's grip on power maintained through brutality and repression , led to the deaths of more than 500,000 people displacing nearly half of the country 's population during Syria 's brutal 13-year civil war . <p> While armed anti-regime groups were not able to claim victory against the Assad regime , backed by Russia and Iran , during the long civil war , which was triggered by the Arab Spring in 2011 , they never surrendered . Instead , they retreated to Syria 's northwestern Idlib province , holding out against the regime 's onslaught . <p> AA <p> Syrian opposition fighters toppled the country 's Baathist regime led by Bashar al-Assad in early December after an 11-day lightning offensive . <p> In late November , armed anti-regime groups led by the Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) launched a lightning offensive , which quickly marched across northern Syria , capturing Aleppo , the country 's largest city with an ancient history . Then , they moved toward Hama , a stronghold of anti-Baath sentiments , which has witnessed oppression since the 1960s at the hands of the ruling Assad family . <p> The swift capture of both Aleppo and Hama -- cities that had eluded opposition control throughout the civil war -- signalled the imminent collapse of the Assad regime . <p> On December 8 , anti-regime groups entered Damascus , Syria 's ancient capital , without encountering resistance . The regime 's army vanished , and Bashar al-Assad , along with his family , fled to Moscow . <p> In the aftermath of the regime 's collapse , the anti-regime groups formed a transitional government led by Mohammed al Bashir , the new prime minister , and Ahmed al Sharaa , the HTS leader . So far , they have overseen a largely peaceful transfer of power , bringing a sense of hope to a war-torn nation . <p> " This is a message to all the oppressed and revolutionaries around the world : Truth will prevail and the people will prevail despite all the injustice and bloodshed , " says Omar Alhariri , a Daraa-based Syrian journalist . " Do not lose hope , " he tells TRT World . <p> While the bloody Syria conflict has reached a relatively peaceful end , other conflicts around the world with a very high human toll have continued with no signs of a solution at sight . <p> In Sudan , a 20-month civil war between the military and a paramilitary force has created the world 's largest displacement crisis and a widening famine , driving 30 percent of the country 's population out of their homes , besides killing more than 24,000 people . <p> The junta-led Myanmar has also seen its conflict between the military rule and anti-government forces escalate this year even as the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant against the country 's top military leader .
