<p> In the Christmas story , a baby is born in Bethlehem . New stories begin a dozen times a day in Bethlehem 's busiest maternity ward . <p> Less than a 15-minute walk from the Church of the Nativity -- containing the grotto believed to be the scene of the first Noel -- is the Holy Family Hospital . Since 1990 , it 's been operated by the Order of Malta , a Catholic order specialising in humanitarian service . <p> " There 's always room at the inn , " says Mich ? le Bowe , the hospital 's president . " We welcome everybody without regard to their need or creed . Our patients are both Christians and Muslims , reflecting the society in Bethlehem . We subsidise services and have two social workers who can slide the scale all the way down to free so nobody would ever be turned away . " <p> Bowe was born in the US but grew up in Jordan . She became an economist specialising in the Jordan river Valley region and in 2017 was appointed the Order of Malta 's ambassador to Palestine . <p> She is proud that the state-of-the-art facilities at the Holy Family Hospital match those in Europe or the US . There are seven delivery rooms and 50 beds for mothers . There 's a mobile clinic to reach people who ca n't journey to the town . In the West Bank , it 's the only hospital that can care for extremely premature babies . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " We regularly deliver babies as small as 24 or 25 weeks weighing 500 grams and we nurture them to full health , " she says . " Our neonatal intensive care unit is licensed for 18 babies , but if we have that many and a mother comes in pregnant with a pair of twins , we 're going to make room for two more . " <p> The building was previously a French field hospital . Under the instruction of Pope John Paul II it was given to the care of the Order of Malta . The first baby was born there in February 1990 and on the Feast of the Epiphany in 2023 , the 100,000th baby , Mohammad , was delivered . <p> Holy Family Hospital , Bethlehem <p> Now , there are around 12 births per day ; 70% of babies born in Bethlehem are born here . <p> " Everybody 's really excited about the first baby of the day , but they 're still equally excited about the last baby of the day , " Bowe says . " I was recently in one of the labour rooms . A woman invited me in to keep her company while she was delivering , and it was so sweet to see staff who were n't specifically involved in the care of that patient poking their head in and sharing encouraging words : ' Oh , you 've got this ! ' ' It 's almost time , your baby 's going to be here soon ! ' <p> " It 's a very joyful staff . They 're super dedicated and they 're just resilient . I mean , since our hospital opened , we 've been through seven wars or intifadas . " <p> When conflict between Israel , Gaza and other territories intensified last year , already difficult circumstances were made much more difficult for everybody in the region , including those at the Holy Family Hospital . <p> Medicine has to be monitored carefully . " We are now keeping a revolving three-month supply , " Bowe explains . " A lot of the things we can source in Bethlehem or other places on the West Bank . Other than that , we have to work with the Israeli authorities to bring things in , because Palestine has no port and no airport . " <p> For the staff too , everyday life has become more complicated . With 220 direct or indirect members of staff , the hospital is the largest employer in the town . Many commute from settlements in Area C -- territory under Israeli control in the West Bank . <p> " Those villages are often locked at night , and so if they 're not unlocked at a proper time in the morning staff will be late to work , and that 's very stressful . We 've found places for people to live closer to the hospital and when things are a little more active with the war , we go to 12-hour shifts so that our staff are n't coming and going as frequently . <p> The little town is home to around 30,000 people today . The number is growing , but not because of the newborns . There are three refugee camps nearby sheltering people displaced from places like Be'er Sheva or Ein Karem -- places in Israel they have been pushed out of . Half of the patients in the hospital are now refugees . <p> Bowe continues : " The whole world is thinking about Gaza . Bethlehem is 45 miles away . If you 're Palestinian , there 's no way you can travel between Bethlehem and Gaza , so it 's far away , but the effects are felt every moment . <p> " There 's huge inflation for food . Gaza was a big producer of produce , fruits and vegetables , and most of their land is ruined now . <p> Advertisement <p> " We 're having women come to the hospital who have n't eaten in a day or so because they 've been trying to feed their other children . Food insecurity is growing by the day . <p> " Bethlehem lives on pilgrimages and tourism . During Covid it was all closed down and 90% of the workforce had no salaries . They said it would take a generation to recover economically . They only had 18 months and this war began . Everything closed down again . <p> " Our births have actually fallen because of the difficulty in movement , but also because of the economic situation . Couples are n't getting married and in a place like Palestine , people get married and then they have their babies . So those first babies are many fewer than they were before the war . " <p> Babies born in Bethlehem today represent hope in the same way now as two millennia ago . <p> Baby Maryam , a recent arrival <p> " To me , the most hopeful thing in the world is a new baby , " Bowe says . " It 's a promise , a commitment to the future . The next thing I find most hopeful is employment , a job , specifically a job that has training and advancement possibilities . And with our 220 employees , that 's a lot of hope . " <p> Unsurprisingly , Bowe feels a special connection to the Christmas story . It 's Christmas every day in the hospital of course , with every new baby born . The nativity scene is displayed in the hospital all year round for visitors to see . On Christmas Day itself , the youngest member of staff has the honour of placing baby Jesus in the manger . <p> Advertisement <p> " When you walk into Bethlehem , the checkpoint is a little jarring , but you get in and you can really feel the peace and something very sacred about the place , " Bowe says . " Most everything in Bethlehem today was there 2,000 years ago . Some of the olive trees are said to be 2000 years old . The houses are made of beautiful stone , which is quarried locally . When a building comes down , the stones are picked up and reassembled . <p> " The people who are n't refugees , their families have been there for thousands of years . When we walk in Bethlehem and we see the eyes of the people on the streets , those are eyes that saw the eyes that saw the eyes that saw the Holy Family . " <p> Last year , Christmas celebrations in the birthplace of the season were scaled back . <p> " Instead of Christmas parades with bagpipes , there were solemn Christmas processions , " Bowe remembers . " Money was tight . Very few gifts were exchanged , but the spirit of Christmas was strong . <p> " This year , Christmas will be very spartan . The meal will be simple . There will probably not be gifts , but regardless of the situation , the Christmas joy wo n't be able to be contained . "
