<h> Films of the year 2024 : Jonathan Romney <p> Jonathan Romney is longtime contributor to Screen , who also writes for Film Comment , Sight &amp; Sound and The Observer , and teaches at the UK 's National Film and Television School . <h> Best film <p> Source : Bleecker Street <p> ' Sasquatch Sunset ' <p> 1 . Sasquatch SunsetDirs . David Zellner and Nathan ZellnerThe Zellner brothers do n't yet seem to have become cult heroes , but their latest is their boldest , strangest , most lyrical yet . Four hairy ' bigfoot ' creatures explore rural America , and with it all the things that come with being human ( or sort of human ) : life , death , sex , curiosity , copious bodily fluids . Surely the most poetic gross-out comedy yet devised , this is also a feat of wordless but intensely expressive acting for the four performers , including Jesse Eisenberg and Riley Keough . <p> 2 . Sanatorium Under The Sign Of The HourglassDirs . Quay brothersInspired by the work of Polish writer Bruno Schulz , the alchemists of stop-motion animation create an enigmatic fever dream , ostensibly about a man 's search for his father , but ultimately a densely woven tissue of sound , image , texture and suggestion . <p> 3 . Grand TourDir . Miguel GomesPlaying fast and loose with the tradition of the colonial travelogue , Portuguese experimentalist Gomes runs two strands side by side : one , a docu-style mapping of modern Southeast Asia , the other a gorgeously styled period pastiche in which a woman and her fianc ? respectively search for love and flee from it . <p> 4 . AnoraDir . Sean BakerIt was wonderful to see this win the Palme d'Or , a prize not usually awarded to films that exude joy . But Baker 's comedy , a buoyant revival of the energies of the screwball tradition , albeit in a harshly realist setting , flew the flag for pleasure -- cinematic , social and sexual . Mikey Madison gives a wonderfully brash performance as the young New York sex worker who marries the feckless son of wealthy Russians , then has to face the music . Baker has a fantastic way of orchestrating borderline chaos while keeping the complexities of character in the spotlight : for all the brutality and exploitation depicted , Anora nevertheless celebrates the richer things in human nature . <p> 5 . Black DogDir . Guan HuA downbeat but visually spectacular story of a Chinese home ? coming , with its almost silent loner hero pitting his wits against a stray dog , then finding that the animal is his ally in a hostile , collapsing world . Boasts arguably the most magnificent , and surprising , opening shot of the year . <h> Best documentary <p> 1 . DahomeyDir . Mati DiopDahomey is more a political-poetical hybrid that addresses colonial history through the imagined musings of a king 's statue , as it is returned to Benin and welcomed by a young African public eager for debate . <p> 2 . No Other LandDirs . Basel Adra , Hamdan Ballal , Yuval Abraham , Rachel SzorMade by a Palestinian-Israeli co- ? operative , this expos ? of village demolitions in the West Bank was not only revealing , but given events in the Middle East , timely . An award winner at the Berlinale , it caused reverberations that not only affected the festival itself but also intensified debate in Germany and beyond on how to talk about the Israel- ? Gaza conflict . <p> 3 . Apocalypse In The TropicsDir . Petra CostaA thoughtful , often shocking essay on the fundamentalist powers behind the Jair Bolsonaro presidency in Brazil , showing how the rise of evangelist preachers put a new kind of far-right in office -- and could portend its eventual return . <h> Performance of the year <p> Fernanda Torres in I 'm Still HereDir . Walter SallesThis devastating performance is the magnetic centre of Salles ' sobering real-life drama . Torres plays Eunice Paiva , a woman whose family endured persecution under Brazil 's dictatorship in the 1970s . The performance is all the more heart-wrenching for being so perfectly controlled , both in the scenes of everyday life before the nightmare , and through the horror that becomes Eunice 's normality . An additional haunting touch is that the older Eunice of the finale is played by Torres ' mother Fernanda Montenegro , noted for her own unforgettable performance in Salles ' 1998 Central Station . <h> Subscribe to Screen International <p> Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . Subscribe now for monthly editions , awards season weeklies , access to the Screen International archive and supplements including Stars of Tomorrow and World of Locations .
