<h> The Irish Times view on Christmas 2024 : holding on to the hope for peace and justice <h> Christmas always bring the promise of a new beginning , even if at times like this hope can seem in short supply <p> Pupils in the first and second class of St Louis Primary School , Rathmines , entertain passengers as they arrive at Dublin Airport . ( Photo by Ray McManus/Sportsfile ) <p> Tue Dec 24 2024 - 06:10 <p> As society becomes more secular and the churches continue to lose their influence in many aspects of life , more and more people are going to learn about the Christmas story not through sermons , prayers and Gospel readings , but through hearing carols and Christmas songs , in television drama or in the cribs in shop window displays . <p> None of this means that the Christmas story is losing its significance or its relevance , nor is it losing its ability to rekindle the core values and priorities of peace , goodwill and love among ordinary people . <p> If anything , these key values are finding new ways of being expressed , being spread and of being integrated into hearts and minds . <p> Since last Christmas , there have been constant , -- daily -- reminders of how we live in an increasingly fragile world , and how the core details of the narrative of the nativity are in greater need of being heard and told afresh . <p> Russia 's war of aggression against Ukraine calls on the world to heed again the plea in the Christmas carols for peace on earth and goodwill to all . Once again , there is no prospect of a Christmas truce in that war . Peace still seems some way off in this dreadful conflict . <p> The continuing devastating conflict engulfing Israel , Gaza and the West Bank has added poignancy in these weeks to any reminders that this land is the location of the first Christmas . <p> This year , for the first time in 19 years , Christmas and Chanukah fall on the same day , and the eight-day Jewish Festival of Lights begins on the evening of Christmas Day . But light and enlightenment are dim and distant qualities that seem to be lacking in this conflict , and the people of Gaza and the remaining hostages from Israel are people who live in darkness and in the shadow of death . <p> It is long past time that they are freed from this terrible burden . Talks now underway on a long-overdue ceasefire in Gaza must be brought to a successful conclusion . <p> Recent events in Syria are a reminder that the Christmas story is a story shared by all people in that region . When Syrians celebrated the fall of the Assad regime at Friday prayers on December 13th , they converged in their thousands on the Umayyad Mosque , also known as the Great Mosque of Damascus . The Minaret of Jesus is the tallest of the three minarets of the mosque , and Muslims and Christians alike revere it as the burial place of the head of John the Baptist . <p> The story of John the Baptist is central to the Christmas story , but John the Baptist is also mentioned five times in the Qur'an , and he remains a key figure for the peacemakers who engage in Christian-Muslim dialogue . <p> In his popular hymn " Dear Lord and Father of Mankind " , John Greenleaf Whittier locates Christ 's ministry and miracles " by the Syrian Sea . " Syria is a central location in understanding the beginnings of Christianity : Saint Luke 's Gospel dates the first Christmas to the time " while Quirinius was governor of Syria " ( Luke 2 : 2 ) ; later , Saint Paul experiences his dramatic conversion on the road to Damascus ( Acts 9 : 1-22 ) ; and it was in Antioch , long a part of Syria , that the disciples are first called " Christians " ( Acts 11 : 25 ) . <p> Although most Muslims do not celebrate Christmas , the birth of Jesus is described in two places in the Qur'an : Sura 3 ( Al Imram ) and Sura 19 ( Maryam ) , and in popular Muslim belief the second coming or return of Jesus is to take place at the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus . <p> In his poem ' I heard the bells on Christmas Day ' , the American poet Henry Wordsworth Longfellow bows his head indespair at a time of civil unrest and war and grieves : " There is no peace on earth ... For hate is strong/ And mocks the song/ Of peace on earth , good-will to men ! " <p> At this Christmas time , many are uncertain about Europe 's political stability -- emphasised in the political uncertainty in France and Germany and compounded by the rise in the far-right across the Continent - -- and many , too , fear the prospect of a second Trump presidency . <p> Perhaps these fears and uncertainties find resonances in the time and place of the first Christmas story , a land torn by war , oppression and violence and ruled by despotic monarchs and governors , from Caesar Augustus and the capricious Herod to the self-serving Pilate . <p> Yet the Christmas carols in supermarkets and shops and on the streets bring " tidings of comfort and joy " and urge us all to " fear not " for peace and goodwill to all are at the heart of the Christmas message . They show that rulers , personified in the magi or three kings , can bring surprising gifts even to the lowly-born . <p> Christmas always brings hope and the promise of justice and peace , even if at times like this hope can seem in short supply . Longfellow 's despair ends when he hears the bells peal again , " more loud and deep " , and he concludes :
