<p> Berlinale festival director Tricia Tuttle is asking anyone with concerns about free speech being curtailed at the upcoming event ( February 13-23 ) to " approach us rather than make assumptions or believe things which may not be true " . <p> In the lead-up to her first edition in the post , Tuttle has spoken out following an online petition that has emerged , posted by Film Workers For Palestine and Strike Germany , which calls for a boycott of the 2025 festival , as well as concerns heard through the festival 's own networks from both the Arab and wider filmmaking communities about the festival and Germany 's relationship with freedom of speech . <p> Strike Germany posted an online statement that said : " Despite the festival 's long history of creating a space for essential political discourse , Berlinale made clear that it is content to be complicit in the German government 's ongoing strategy of aggressively censoring any criticism of Israel 's ongoing genocide against Palestinians . As the 2025 Berlinale approaches and the indiscriminate violence in Palestine has expanded to include the bombing and displacement of the people of Lebanon , we remind film workers of where we were a year ago . " <p> At the 2024 ceremony , the last to be led by Mariette Rissenbeek and Carlo Chatrian and a few months after the October 7 Hamas attacks on Israel and subsequent escalation of attacks on Gaza , No Other Land won the Berlinale documentary award -- a Palestinian- ? Israeli documentary about the Israeli demolition of villages in Masafer Yatta in the West Bank . <p> A speech made by the film 's co-directors , Palestinian Basel Adra and Israeli Yuval Abraham , as well as views expressed by several other awardees at the ceremony in support of the plight of the Palestinian people , were deemed antisemitic by German politicians , while some Jewish filmmakers felt that the events of the Hamas October 7 attack on Israel had been overlooked . <p> Source : Dogwoof <p> No Other Land <p> In November , when No Other Land was released in German cinemas , the Berlin city website Berlin.de described No Other Land on its listings page as " exhibiting antisemitic tendencies " . This description has since been removed . <p> In response , former BFI London Film Festival director Tuttle herself posted a statement on Instagram defending the No Other Land filmmakers , writing : " I do n't consider the film , or statements made by co-directors , Palestinian Basel Adra and Israeli Yuval Abraham at the awards ceremony of the Berlinale to be anti-Semitic . " <p> Also in November , the German parliament passed a resolution that calls on public grants for culture and science projects to be dependent on adherence to a particular definition of antisemitism . This definition does not allow a call for a boycott of Israel , or to question Israel 's right to exist . <p> The resolution is legally non-binding ; however , in recent years in Germany , creatives who have supported a boycott or publicly criticised Israel have seen events cancelled . <p> The festival receives a considerable amount of funding from the government . The 2024 edition of the Berlinale had a total budget of around ? 33m , with ? 12.6m coming from the state minister for culture and media ( BKM ) as well as cash injections of ? 2m from the Berlin Senate and almost ? 1m from the city 's lottery organisation . <p> " There are many different perspectives from individuals across different parties within the government ; these have in many cases been expressed publicly and documented in the media . There have been no private directives about our artistic or curatorial choices , " Tuttle told Screen . <h> " The festival welcomes pluralistic views " <p> Tuttle is keen to promote an open discourse for all in the run-up to the next edition . <p> " We have had no films or filmmakers pull out of the festival so any concerns we have right now come because we are hearing , directly and through our networks , some general sense of unease and uncertainty about free speech , " she noted . <p> " We very much hope that people with concerns approach us rather than make assumptions or believe things which may not be true . When we speak to filmmakers directly , we find that we are able to reassure them about our commitment to free speech and the fact that the festival welcomes pluralistic views on the world , as it always has done . <p> " I believe there are many people who will understand that we are committed to having an inclusive and open festival . " <p> This includes " making sure that Israeli and Jewish filmmakers know they are welcomed at the festival " . <p> Tuttle confirmed that no filmmaker has so far pulled out of contention for the Berlinale in relation to this issue , and that the next edition should remain a platform in which countering perspectives can be expressed . <p> " The festival stands against antisemitism , " she said . " But we also stand by filmmakers ' right to make work with strong , sometimes contested , points of view on the world , as we have done for many years . We do not avoid this work out of fear of adverse reactions . This is the main point to get across . <p> " When filmmakers are guests at the festival , we will also defend their right to speak openly about their work and about the impulses that underpin it . Conversely , filmmakers also have to know that some people may disagree with them , or find what they say problematic . This is also true in the context of this particular issue because of Germany 's Holocaust history . " <p> Another thorny issue that has faced Tuttle is whether members of the far-right extremist party Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) would be invited to the opening ceremony . Last year , the festival faced intense criticism for the invite as part of federal government and Berlin Senate quotas . After an open letter was signed by 200 industry professionals condemning the invitation , the Berlinale revoked the invitation . <p> Tuttle noted : " We are unlikely to issue a statement because we have never shared details of our guest lists , but we see no reason to shift the reconsidered position of the management at the last festival . <p> " We take suggestions for the guest list from all of our partners including our government funders . But who to invite to the Berlinale is our choice and our responsibility ; we do not have to extend our hospitality to guests who are antipathetic to our values of inclusion , plurality , or those who express bigotry against Muslims or people from immigrant backgrounds . " <p> Tuttle has a central focus for her first edition : " I want to bring this conversation back to the films themselves , too . The Berlinale stands for cinema , all kinds of cinema . " <h> Subscribe to Screen International <p> Screen International is the essential resource for the international film industry . Subscribe now for monthly editions , awards season weeklies , access to the Screen International archive and supplements including Stars of Tomorrow and World of Locations .
