<h> Embassy closure is ' setback ' for both Ireland and Israel , says Archbishop Eamon Martin as he disagrees with ' antisemitic ' label for Irish <p> Church leader says conflict on our own island showed dialogue is important to build reconciliation and any hope for peace <p> Christmas message from Archbishop Eamon Martin <p> Sarah Mac Donald <p> Yesterday at 11:30 <p> The leader of the Catholic Church in Ireland has said he is " deeply saddened " by the closure of the Israeli embassy in Dublin and described the move as " a setback for Ireland and a setback for Israel " . <p> Speaking to the Irish Independent , Archbishop Eamon Martin encouraged " everyone who has influence to work very diligently to try to restore and heal this issue " . <p> Israel 's foreign ministry announced on December 15 that it had ordered the closure of its embassy because of what it called " extreme anti-Israel policy " by the Irish Government . <p> Israel 's foreign minister Gideon Sa'ar said : " Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel . " He claimed Ireland 's actions and antisemitic rhetoric were rooted in " the de-legitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state " . <p> However , Archbishop Martin said : " I do not feel that Irish people are antisemitic . " <p> Describing the criticism as " emotional language " , he added , " we quite simply abhor the death and destruction that is going on at the moment " . <p> " We know that this particular episode began with a horrific terror incident of October 7 , 2023 attacks and the taking of hostages . These are human beings with families and friends , and they are held in goodness-knows what kind of conditions . " <p> However , he said the Irish Government had taken a strong stance which he believes is supported by the large majority of people here , " that we must speak out when we see a relentless bombardment and the destruction of a particular population " . <p> " What has been happening in Gaza is a merciless use of weapons in the destruction of infrastructure including health , homes , schools -- the things that people need to live . We look on almost powerless at the way innocent children , women and civilians appear to be living in complete terror , " he said . <p> Referring to the " complete breakdown of law and order in Gaza " he warned that humanitarian aid is not getting to people who need it , according to Tr ? caire , the Catholic bishops ' development agency . <p> " I feel the Irish Government has been correct in using every vehicle of international pressure and diplomacy to try to get a ceasefire , the release of all the hostages , and full access for essential humanitarian aid . Our message to Israel must remain consistent -- their behaviour is something that we can not in any way support , " Dr Martin said . <p> He regrets the closure of the embassy because of the importance of diplomacy and dialogue in solving issues of conflict . " In our own conflict on this island , we have seen how important dialogue was in order to build reconciliation and any hope for peace , " he said . <p> Calling on all sides to redouble their efforts for a ceasefire and to allow humanitarian aid in and the rebuilding of the Gaza communities , he said : " I really do feel that we should n't give up hope , and we should be relentlessly seeking a solution . " <p> Speaking about Christmas and next year 's jubilee of hope in the Catholic Church , which Pope Francis formally opens on Christmas Eve in Rome , Dr Martin said : " I think people are in need of an injection of hope . <p> " We are living in a world of a huge amount of violence , war and aggression . We are living in a world of the displacement of people , with families on the borderline of survival from Gaza to Sudan , Myanmar , Ukraine , all of these places where we see the worst of humanity . <p> " The message of hope encourages us to remind ourselves that we are basically good people , that we have a lot of opportunities to bring joy , build peace , show harmony and love . <p> " So many people at Christmas time draw on the best of themselves . They reach out to neighbours . There is a huge outpouring of love , generosity and charity towards the poor , for example , through the collections for St Vincent de Paul Society , Crosscare and so many local initiatives . " <p> However , he believes one of our greatest challenges is the " scourge of addictions " . The incoming administration 's programme for government needs to tackle this " cancer in Irish society " which is " destroying so many families and workplaces , and is an immense cost to our health services , and has a huge impact in terms of mental health , " Dr Martin said . <p> Addiction , he warned , was adding to the complications of family life and often translated into aggression such as " some of the awful violence that we are seeing in our communities at the moment -- violence against women and violence against children " . <p> The church leader also spoke about assisted dying . He expressed disappointment at the " way that the D ? il seemed to be rushing to adopt what the bishops believe was a flawed report of the Oireachtas Committee on Assisted Dying just before it broke up for the election " . <p> " It gave me some consolation to see that none of the parties appeared to be making the introduction of assisted dying in Ireland a manifesto issue . Therefore , I feel that none of the parties actually have a mandate now to proceed on this issue , " he said . <p> He expressed concern over " the slippery slope " and how the issue " invariably gets expanded and increased as time goes on " as seen by the experience of other countries . " It is something we should reflect long and hard about , " he said . <p> Last October , the Irish bishops published a pastoral letter on immigration titled , " A Hundred Thousand Welcomes ? " based on the Gospel " imperative towards welcoming the stranger " . <p> " You will notice always that extreme voices will often equate immigrants , migrants , refugees and asylum-seekers , and label everybody who is a stranger as somebody who is not welcome . That is something we would reject as church people , " he said . <p> " We still have a huge number of Irish people going to other countries and finding new opportunities for work . We would be rightly appalled if they were to be treated any way that is less than welcoming . <p> " I think the fact that some of the more extreme people were not elected to seats in the D ? il is certainly noteworthy . However , there is still a large number of people who voted for people with extreme views , and those voices are still there in our communities . " <p> Dr Martin appealed for more dialogue and conversations about the building of capacity . <p> The bishops , he stressed , " recognise that communities are rightly concerned whenever they feel under huge pressure for basic essential facilities like access to health , doctors , medical services , school places and even basic infrastructure like housing and a suitable place to live " . <p> " I think people would be calling on the new government to enact a lot of the promises that have been made in regard to additional housing , proper health services on the ground in communities , and resourcing communities to be welcoming . <p> " Even though the government appears to be well resourced in terms of money , it is also about having the capacity to build the necessary number of houses in terms of engineers , labourers , plasterers and skilled workers . <p> " Sadly , we are exporting a lot of our young people who have these skills , and we are heavily reliant on our migrant communities to provide these essential skills , not just in construction and development , but also in our medical services and in our hospitality services . "
