<h> The Irish Times view on the world in 2024 : democracy under strain <h> A year of terrible wars and the re-invigoration of populist politics which has all underlined deeply worrying trends in international relations <p> Donald Trump speaks during an election night event in Florida : his victory was dramatic evidence of the spread of populist politics . ( Photo : Haiyun Jiang/The New York Times ) <p> Thu Dec 26 2024 - 06:00 <p> We live in uncertain times , " a Swedish emergency readiness pamphlet last month warned every household . The world is a more dangerous place , it might have added , and advice on what to do in the event of war or unexpected crisis , even nuclear attack , also circulated to increasingly nervous citizens of the region from Finland to Denmark and Norway . <p> It reflects a scale of conflict and uncertainty not seen since the middle of the last century . Nearly three years after the Russian invasion , the remorseless , bloody attrition continues in Ukraine , with the latest Russian attacks coming on Ukraine 's energy infrastructure on Christmas Day . President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has spoken of 43,000 Ukrainian soldiers killed and 370,000 wounded . The Russians are estimated to have suffered 600,000 dead and wounded . <p> This year Russian president Vladimir Putin lowered nuclear response threshholds and ratcheted up threats to those willing to help Kyiv . Elsewhere , others like India , Pakistan and China are expanding their nuclear arsenals , while South Korea , Germany , Japan and Ukraine are suggesting they need their own . <p> Putin has thrown North Korean troops into the battle . Long-range missile exchanges , some into Russia , have escalated , as have Russian-sourced hybrid attacks on European states , from fire bombings and assassinations to cyberattacks and election manipulation , to allegations of mysterious deep sea cable sabotage . <p> Populations from the Baltics to Romania and Georgia , both subjects of Russian election interference , have become palpably more nervous , while Nato leaders -- now including the Swedes and Finns -- warn of western unpreparedness and urge sharp increases in military spending . <p> In part that is also a response to the continuing carnage and regional instability in the Middle East . Israel 's war in Gaza -- with over 45,000 now dead - -- continued relentlessly . Ceasefire talks , also involving the release of Israeli hostages , are again underway though prospects of success are uncertain . The conflict was extended to Lebanon in an invasion which both decapitated the powerful Hizbullah militia and dealt a crushing blow to Iran 's axis of resistance , enabling the welcome overthrow of Syria 's brutal Assad dictatorship . <p> And yet , while the success of the Islamist HTS may have delivered Israel a temporary measure of security , it has also injected a new element of uncertainty into western strategic calculations about the new regional balance . History shows that the toppling of dictators , like Saddam Hussein in Iraq and Muammar Gadafy in Libya , is often followed by violent chaos rather than peace and stability . <p> That uncertainty in Ukraine and the Middle East has been compounded by the October re-election of Donald Trump , whose previous hints at disengagement from European defence and Nato , and pledge to sort Ukraine out in a day , has caused alarm among European allies . Will the US now push Kyiv to accept a permanent Russian occupation of up to a third of its territory ? <p> Trump 's re-election , and the continued resilience of the sort of populism and ultranationalism he represents , also has wider echoes in this year when 60 countries , representing over half the world 's population , held elections . Polling by the Pew Research Centre across 34 countries revealed wide disillusionment ( 54 per cent ) with how democracy is functioning , and the year saw right-wing populist parties now firmly embedded in Europe 's political landscape . In seven EU states they are now part of governments . <p> The shock to conventional analysis of US politics was , as US political scientist Francis Fukuyama put it , that Trump represented a " challenge to the New Deal realignment of 1932 as the most consequential election of the past 100 years ... Conservative power is consolidated in a way that makes the Biden administration look like the fluke , the last gasp of a dying order . " <p> Voter disillusionment meant a hard year for incumbents of whatever shade . In June , South Africa 's ANC failed to win a parliamentary majority for the first time since the end of apartheid . Japan 's long-serving LDP lost its majority . In the UK , Labour won a stonking majority after 14 years of Tory rule . In France , President Macron 's failed gamble on a general election has left him with an unmanageable parliament . India 's Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party won a third consecutive victory but were forced into a coalition government . <p> Right-wing populist parties , many of which campaigned on anti-immigration platforms , gained ground in this year 's European parliamentary elections . And Alternative for Germany became the first far-right political party to win a state election in Germany since World War II . There were important gains for the far right in France , Austria , Slovakia , Romania and the UK . <p> Twenty five years ago Fukuyama optimistically forecast that with the demise of communism we were seeing " the end of history " and the enduring triumph of liberal democracy . 2024 , a year of terrible wars and the re-invigoration of populist politics , would suggest that writing history 's epitaph generally turns out of be premature . Democracy is under strain in a way not seen for many years .
