<p> MACK HANSEN managed to suck any festive joy out of the air of the post-match press conference at the Aviva on Saturday by delivering a strong , rare and rather refreshing outburst . <p> He claimed he and his Connacht teammates were ' reffed out of the game ' against Leinster and that it was ' like 16 men against us instead of 15 ' . He then insisted -- somewhat ironically -- that Connacht are not a team for excuses , despite laying at least part of the blame for their loss at the feet of referee Chris Busby . <p> While the rant was brief , it was powerful and provided plenty of food for thought : whether his comments were accurate ; the value in blaming referees and calling them out publicly ; and the wider discussion of how much autonomy players should have to speak their minds to the media . <p> Starting with the last of these , the reason there has been such a big reaction to Hansen 's comments is that they deviate so sharply from what we have come to expect . <p> While the GAA leads the way in dullness and predictability in interviews with players and coaches , rugby pressers do n't often light the place up either . <p> If it was as easy to pick the lotto numbers as it is to guess the cliches that will be rolled out from the provinces or Ireland camp in game week , I would n't have to write this column . <p> Irish rugby tends to play it safe when it comes to comment on both on-field and off-field matters . Players are kept on a tight leash . <p> I recall hearing one former Leinster out-half had started refusing to do press conferences early in his career unless he had permission to answer questions candidly . Apparently , he was being given briefing notes that he was told to stick to and he took issue with this . <h> Read More <p> While there is value in ensuring players have something to reference and fall back on if sensitive questions are asked , expecting them to recite pre-prepared lines and nothing else is over the top . <p> Not trusting players to have enough critical awareness to answer questions from journalists without causing a scandal shows a lack of respect for them and sanitising the brief exchanges these players have with the media shows a lack of respect for the public . <p> We were never given briefing notes in Munster but they always took a conservative approach to discussion of non-rugby matters . Politics , or anything else that could be perceived as contentious , was off the table . <p> While I do n't agree with this approach , I can understand it . It 's nothing to do with disagreeing with the opinions being expressed but rather a desire to avoid any unwarranted attention being drawn on the organisation . <p> In the one and only press conference I spoke at in 2014 , I mentioned that I had been to the West Bank the previous summer and was shocked at how bad the situation was there . The IRFU and Munster received a number of complaints from the pro-Israel lobby stating that it was a violation of my contract to talk about politics , that it should n't be allowed , and so on . <p> We rutted heads about what entitlement I had to speak about the issue and the whole thing blew over a short time later . It was a good example of how a brief comment can result in hassle that everyone could do without . <p> That does not , however , mean players who have a platform and a profile should be discouraged from voicing their opinions about things they care about . It was hugely impressive to see the Leinster men 's and women 's teams issue a statement calling for a ceasefire in Gaza in June of this year . <p> I understand this was spearheaded by senior internationals within the playing group , who were likely aware of the potential blowback they might get . Despite this , they went ahead with it because they felt strongly about it , and that should be encouraged and facilitated rather than shot down . <p> Talking about international conflicts is a bit different to giving out about referees , you might say , but it all falls in the same category . Players are not robots and the glimpses of individuality and personality we get are often the most compelling . <p> I would be surprised if Hansen escapes some sort of censure for his comments on Saturday . Regulation 18.4 ( i ) of the World Rugby code of conduct states that ' making any comments ( including to the media ) that attack , disparage or denigrate ... match officials and/or disciplinary personnel ' may be considered misconduct . There is a bit of a double whammy here in that Hansen and the team of officials he was criticising all have the same boss and operate under the same umbrella , so he could be getting it from multiple angles . <p> If Hansen is punished , the question is then whether it was worth it to get Connacht 's message out there . Public criticism of referees is rare in rugby but the examples we do have from recent history would suggest the juice might be worth the squeeze . Rassie Erasmus is the main example , being a serial critic of referees during his tenure at South Africa . He was banned for two months in 2021 after publishing a 62-minute video diatribe criticising the performance of Nic Berry in the first British &amp; Irish Lions test . <p> There was widespread condemnation and disgust -- rugby values and all that -- but ultimately , a lot more of the 50/50 calls went South Africa 's way in the second and third tests and the Springboks won the series . He was banned again the following year after posting a series of videos criticising Wayne Barnes . Despite the unpleasantness , what these episodes have done is plant seeds in the minds of all international referees when it comes to officiating South Africa . <p> They would deny it completely but even the tiniest , subconscious shift of the pendulum in a referee 's mind can be the difference between winning and losing . You ca n't quantify this but if you were to ask Rassie if he would do anything different in order to avoid either of his bans , I 'm fairly sure he would say no . He knew he was throwing the cat amongst the pigeons and he would maintain it was worth it to get his message across . <p> With that in mind , Hansen has now succeeded in putting Connacht 's grievances on the map . People will be paying much closer attention to the calls that do or do not go Connacht 's way . It 's something that is likely to rumble on for a few weeks as World Rugby and the IRFU figure out their response , and it will generate plenty of clicks and column inches . Is there any merit in what he was saying ? Are Connacht victims of refereeing bias ? <p> My initial reaction was to roll my eyes when I read his comments . A losing side blaming the referee is one of the oldest traditions in sport . Connacht have lost five of their eight league matches this season , so if you tend to blame the ref after losing , that 's already five opportunities to do so in this campaign . A persecution complex can develop quickly within teams that are losing where there is genuine belief that the universe is conspiring against them , and they are powerless to fix it . <p> While I spent most of my time at Munster , a team which generally wins a lot more games than it loses , my season in the Top 14 in Grenoble did give me a different perspective on the challenge of dealing with referees as a ' weaker ' side . We were regularly on the receiving end of calls that were inexplicable . The standard of reffing in France is n't particularly high anyway but leaving that aside , it was obvious that we were expected to lose and as a result , many calls that should have gone our way went against us . <p> Whether or not it 's true in Connacht 's case I ca n't say because it 's not something that was even on my radar until now . Maybe they have a right to be aggrieved and Hansen has taken a bold step towards tackling the problem . <p> Whatever the truth , it 's going to be at the forefront of everyone 's mind in the coming weeks , and it has been a welcome change from the usual mundanity we get after games .
