<h> A Mayo View : A president showing international leadership when it 's needed most <p> President Michael D. Higgins sometimes comes under fire for his outspoken comments . <p> But he rarely strays too far from the truth , and particularly so when it comes to calling out the Israeli government and its scandalous , utterly disgraceful and brutally violent behaviour towards Palestine and its people . <p> For too many years - and indeed decades - political leaders throughout the globe have been reluctant to call Israel to account and , consequently , the situation has got progressively worse . <p> But not Michael D. , who , to his credit , went on the offensive when Israel 's Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar had the audacity of accusing Ireland of ' anti-semitic rhetoric ' . <p> " The actions , double standards , and anti-semitic rhetoric of the Irish government against Israel are rooted in efforts to delegitimise and demonise the Jewish state , " he articulated in a statement which also referenced the fact that Ireland had remained neutral during World War Two , opting to not take up arms against Hitler and his unforgivable atrocities against the Jewish people and others . <p> So annoyed is the Israeli government that it has closed its embassy in Dublin at a time when a Palestinian Ambassador is appointed to Ireland -- a formality that is part of Ireland recognising Palestinian statehood . <p> Gideon Sa'ar cited a number of reasons for closing the embassy . They included Ireland recognising a Palestinian state " during attacks on Israel " , and what he said was an attempt to " redefine ' genocide ' in international law to support baseless claims against Israel at the International Court of Justice . " <p> Now the fact that Mr. Sa'ar should also cite Ireland 's neutrality during World War Two in the same breath as lambasting Ireland for ' demonising the Jewish state ' is unfounded and ridiculous in the extreme as Ireland provided safe haven for many Jewish families during and after the war , including here in Castlebar , where a section of the town was once widely known as ' Little Jerusalem . ' <p> In any event , our president did not let him away with it , and rightly so . <p> " To say that the Irish people are anti-semitic is a deep slander . And to suggest because one criticises Prime Minister Netanyahu that one is anti-semitic is such a gross defamation and slander , " he stated . <p> He further emphasised that Ireland " can not be knocked off our principle support of international law " and further accused Benjamin Netanyahu of breaching international law " and the sovereignty of three of his neighbours . " <p> He also stated that the killing of 45,000 people in Gaza , 17,000 of whom are children ; injuries in Gaza being treated without pain relief ; and the Palestinian enclave having the largest number of child amputees in the world is what Ireland bases its position on . <p> Mr. Higgins added the Irish position is informed by " the details of these tragic breaches of international law . " <p> The row between Mr. Higgins and the Israeli foreign minister is significant because it shows that the Israeli government is flawed in its judgement , is far too inward-looking and can not take constructive criticism without getting into a huff.
