<h> Pope Francis 's Christmas message asks ' all people of all nations ' to overcome divisions <p> During this Holy Year , Pope Francis has called on " all people of all nations " to find the strength " to silence the sounds of arms and overcome divisions " in his customary Christmas greeting , reports Breaking News . <p> The world 's problems this year are summed up in the pope 's " Urbi et Orbi " ( To the City and the World ) speech . Francis appealed for widespread reconciliation , " even ( with ) our enemies , " as Christmas fell on the first day of the 2025 Holy Year celebration , which he devoted to hope . <p> The pope addressed crowds of people below from the loggia of St. Peter 's Basilica , saying , " I invite every individual , and all people of all nations ... to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sounds of arms , and to overcome divisions , " reports Breaking News . <p> The pope urged God 's kindness , which " unties every knot ; it tears down every wall of division ; it dispels hatred and the spirit of revenge , " in reference to the Holy Door of St. Peter 's Basilica , which he opened on Christmas Eve to begin the 2025 Jubilee . <p> Singling out Christian communities in Israel and the Palestinian territories , " especially in Gaza where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave , " as well as Lebanon and Syria " at this most delicate time , " he urged for the cessation of armaments in war-torn Ukraine and the Middle East , reports Breaking News . <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Francis reiterated his demands for the return of prisoners that Hamas had captured from Israel . <p> He mentioned the hardship of the people of Myanmar who were compelled to leave their homes due to " the ongoing clash of arms " and a fatal measles epidemic in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . The pope also recalled hungry and war-torn youngsters , lonely old people , people who have lost their jobs , people who are persecuted for their religious beliefs , and those who are leaving their own countries , reports Breaking News . <p> As the Jubilee is anticipated to gather some 32 million Catholic faithful to Rome , pilgrims lined up on Christmas Day to enter St. Peter 's Basilica through the great Holy Door . <p> During a Jubilee , which is a **26;1589;TOOLONG custom that began in 1300 , the faithful can get indulgences , or forgiveness for sins , by passing through the Holy Door , reports Breaking News . <p> In the wake of a devastating Christmas market assault in Germany , pilgrims complied with security measures before approaching the Holy Door . As they entered the basilica honouring St. Peter , the founder of the Roman Catholic Church , many stopped to touch the door and make the sign of the cross . <p> " You feel so humble when you go through the door that once you go through is almost like a release , a release of emotions , " said Blanca Martin , a pilgrim from San Diego . " ... It 's almost like a release of emotions , you feel like now you are able to let go and put everything in the hands of God . See I am getting emotional . It 's just a beautiful experience , " reports Breaking News . <p> Tell us your thoughts in the Facebook post and share this with your friends .
