<p> Addressing the rally , Aisling said that while Irish children listened to Christmas movies and music , children in Gaza listened for the sounds of killer drones , adding that the suffering of children in Gaza was so bad that the living sometimes envied the dead . <p> " Israel wants to silence the people of Gaza and hide what is being done , but we will not allow them to do that , we will be their voices and we will continue to tell the world the truth about what is happening , " she said . <p> Reading from a poem , ' I Like Your Scarf ' , Journey drew strong applause for the line " Your burden is heavy , I will carry it for you " . <p> Because it took place between Christmas and New Year , this week 's rally , the 64th to take place in Cork , had fewer people in attendance than usual , but its numbers still swelled to about 350 by the time its march through the city centre had concluded . <p> Speaking to The Echo at the protest , the deputy lord mayor of Cork , Green Party councillor Honore Kamegni , said he had been moved by the line " I will carry it for you " , quoted by Journey . <p> " That 's what we Cork people are showing the Palestinian people every week , that we care and that we will help them to carry the burden , " he said . <p> Earlier this month , Israel announced it would close its Irish embassy , citing the Irish Government 's decision to support a petition at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . <p> Israeli foreign minister Gideon Sa'ar said the move was prompted by the Government 's " extreme anti-Israeli policies " , and he accused Taoiseach Simon Harris of antisemitism . <p> T ? naiste Miche ? l Martin has said Ireland 's ICJ intervention is to broaden the interpretation of what constitutes genocide , adding that he was " concerned " over the current interpretation . <p> " There has been a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced . <p> " We are concerned that a very narrow interpretation of what constitutes genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimised , " Mr Martin said . <p> The Israel-Hamas war erupted after Hamas-led militants killed 1,200 people in southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , and took about 250 people hostage , according to Israeli tallies . <p> Since then , Gaza has come under heavy bombardment from the Israeli Defence Forces ( IDF ) , with the death toll in the besieged enclave now more than 44,000 , according to Gaza 's Hamas-run health ministry , which does not distinguish between combatants and civilians . <p> The war has displaced most of the Palestinian territory 's 2.3 million population and triggered widespread hunger . According to the United Nations , at least 1.9 million people across the Gaza Strip are internally displaced , including some people who have been uprooted more than 10 times .
