<h> Leeds condemn fans for singing anti-Palestine song in support of Manor Solomon <p> Leeds United have condemned and warned a section of their fans after chants emerged on social media about Palestine and their Israeli player Manor Solomon . <p> To the tune of the Manfred Mann song Do Wah Diddy Diddy , footage has been viewed over a million times on the platform X of numerous Leeds fans at Stoke City 's Bet 365 Stadium singing , " Looks good , looks good , looks fine , looks fine , Manor Solomon 's on my mind and he hates Palestine " . <p> Leeds won 2-0 on St Stephen 's Day at Stoke to go top of the Championship table but the club have now called out the behaviour of those fans and warned that they could be breaking the law . <p> " Discriminatory language or chanting is not acceptable and supporters could be breaking the law , " said a Leeds spokesperson . " The club condemns this behaviour and has a zero-tolerance policy towards discrimination abuse of all kinds . <p> " Tough measures and sanctions are in place across all English football leagues to tackle illegal behaviours within football grounds , and this involves but is not limited to , discriminatory behaviour and tragedy chanting . " <p> The Football Association and the English Football League are both aware of the chanting but have not commented . Police can also take action if they believe fans have engaged in discriminatory behaviour or what is called " tragedy chanting " . <p> According to the Gaza Health Ministry , more than 45,000 Palestinian people had been killed in Gaza since Israel launched its military response to the Oct 7 Hamas attacks last year . Arrests have already been made this year in English football over chanting about the Hillsborough Disaster , with several fans issued with three-year banning orders . <p> Solomon , who has joined Leeds on loan from Tottenham this season , is also a regular in the Israeli national team . The 25-year-old moved to England in 2022 from Shakhtar Donetsk following Russia 's invasion of Ukraine .
