<p> The weekly Irish Times obituary page highlights the deaths of people whose lives made an impact , for better and occasionally for worse , on Irish society or on the greater world . This year , obituary writers remembered the lives of more than 110 people . They included broadcasters , environmentalists , soccer managers , judges , writers , journalists and business people . Some were household names , such as politician Mary O'Rourke , journalist Nell McCafferty or broadcaster Miche ? l ? Muircheartaigh while others quietly made a huge impact in their chosen fields . Frank Hayes shaped Kerry Group 's public identity during pivotal years . Hazel Allen was a gifted restaurateur who preferred to remain out of the limelight at Ballymaloe House , while Justin O'Brien was a lifelong campaigner for the most marginalised people in society . And some were controversial figures who merited inclusion because of their newsworthiness . <p> All these obituaries can be read on irishtimes.com but here we select 50 people whose deaths were marked by an obituary in the newspaper this year : <h> Entrepreneur <p> Eddie O'Connor , who died on January 5th aged 76 , was a pioneering figure in the renewable energy sector , particularly wind energy . <p> He was chief executive of the Irish semi-State peat development company , Bord na M ? na , when , in 1989 , a board member told him that carbon dioxide was dangerously heating the world . He later recalled his shock at realising that the company he led was responsible for 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxide from peat used in power generation . From then on , he decided that renewable energy was going to be the mission . In 1997 , he founded Eirtricity ( now SSE Airtricity ) , an electricity supplier and wind farm development company which constructed the Arklow Bank offshore wind farm . He was also co-founder of Mainstream Renewable Power . <p> He was a strong advocate for a European supergrid using thin , fast , cost-effective and energy-efficient cables to distribute electricity from renewable sources , using technology he was developing in the SuperNode superconductor technology project with his Norwegian partner company , Aker Horizons . <p> In 2003 , O'Connor was named World Energy Policy Leader by Scientific American magazine while in 2009 , he was presented with the first leadership award at the annual Ernst &amp; Young Global Renewable Energy awards . <h> Broadcaster <p> The Cork-based RT ? broadcaster M ? ire N ? Mhurch ? died on January 11th , aged 90 . She was an award-winning presenter and head of regional radio broadcasting in Cork City . When she joined RT ? Cork local radio in the 1950s , she travelled to schools and homes to record many hours of interviews with children for series such as Young Munster on the Air , Munster Journal and Children Talking . She also worked with broadcaster S ? le N ? Bhriain on a series entitled A Woman 's World . And , with a team of helpers , she put together the annual hour-long programme about the Cork Choral Festival . <p> Her most celebrated documentaries include The Echo Boys , a profile of the newspaper boys who sold The Evening Echo on the streets of Cork City , and Someone To Love , a two-part radio series on the harsh life in a convent orphanage in the 1960s . She won a Jacob 's Award in 1969 for her broadcasting work . <p> In 1989 , N ? Mhurch ? was promoted to divisional head of Cork Local Radio , which was rebranded as Cork 89FM when the first independent radio stations were being licensed . She retired in 1998 . <p> She was credited with launching the careers of broadcasters such as Mary Wilson , Tony O'Donoghue , Eileen Whelan , Ger Canning and Marty Morrissey . <h> Biologist <p> Christopher Moriarty , who died on January 13th aged 87 , was a biologist who developed innovative strategies to expand the Irish eel fisheries industry . He was also a prolific author of books and articles on many aspects of nature in Ireland . <p> His parents encouraged his passion for the outdoors in the still partly rural Rathfarnham where he grew up . As a student , he expanded the natural history society membership of St Columba 's College to 40 members . After attaining a zoology degree from Trinity College Dublin , he joined the Civil Service in 1959 , and rapidly became the national expert on eels . <p> He regularly published highly regarded scientific papers and was an influential figure in the European Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Advisory Commission of the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation . He was also a key figure in the Dublin Naturalists ' Field Club and served as its president in the 1970s . <p> His publications include books on the river Liffey and the Dodder , a guide to Irish birds , a natural history of Ireland , an exploration of the history of Leinsterand a collection of his eponymous columns in this newspaper . <p> He was also one of the first Agency for Personal Services Overseas ( APSO ) volunteers , taking two years ' leave to help set up a successful course in fisheries management for the Ibadan University of Nigeria in the mid-1970s . <h> Murder suspect <p> Ian Bailey , the chief suspect for the 1996 murder of Sophie Toscan du Plantier , died in west Co Cork on January 21st , days before his 67th birthday . <p> A controversial figure , some saw the Englishman as the victim of a grave injustice while others believed he was a calculating individual whose portrayal of himself as the wronged party was the ultimate affront to Toscan du Plantier 's family . <p> He had been working as a freelance journalist when he moved to Ireland in 1991 , and later moved in to the home of Welsh artist Jules Thomas , near Schull . After Toscan du Plantier 's body was found at her west Cork holiday home on December 23rd , 1996 , he reported as a journalist on the murder but later became the prime suspect . <p> Despite being arrested by garda ? for questioning in 1997 and 1998 , no prosecution was brought . When a European Arrest Warrant issued by the French authorities was endorsed by the High Court in 2010 , he appealed to the Supreme Court and won his case . <p> He subsequently lost a civil action against the State for wrongful arrest and conspiracy to frame him for the murder . In 2019 , Bailey was convicted in Paris , in his absence , of voluntary homicide but served no jail time having successfully blocked his extradition in the Irish courts . <h> Psychiatrist <p> Pioneering psychiatrist Ivor Browne died on January 24th , aged 94 . He has been credited with transforming attitudes to mental illness , particularly his understanding of the role of trauma . He believed that mental illness was rooted in traumatic experience and , while he believed that drugs could play a role in helping patients , he campaigned against the overuse of medications and electroconvulsive therapy . <p> From the mid-1960s to the mid-1990s , he was chief psychiatrist with the Eastern Health Board and became professor of psychiatry at University College Dublin . Over those decades he led a revolution that saw a dismantling of institutions in Ireland such as St Brendan 's , Grangegorman , and the development of community clinics . Professor of psychiatry at Trinity College Dublin Brendan Kelly described this as the reversal of " Ireland 's fatal weakness for institutional solutions to social problems " . Browne 's most profound legacy was " the additional liberty enjoyed by thousands of people who avoided institutionalisation as a result of the reforms which Ivor came to represent " . <p> Prof Browne also founded the Irish Foundation for Human Development , as well as developing linked community models in Ballyfermot and Derry . <p> President Michael D Higgins said he had fearlessly challenged what was a dehumanising system . " His respect for the dignity of those under his care was renowned and is often recalled by his former patients , " he said . <h> Art gallery owner <p> Mary Hobart , who died on February 2nd aged 81 , played a crucial role in raising awareness of Irish art in this country and internationally . Originally from Scotstown , Co Monaghan , she owned Pyms Gallery in London with her husband Alan Hobart . Neither had any formal training as artists or art historians when they opened the gallery in 1975 . <p> They had a passion for Irish art at a time when it was far from fashionable and they travelled through Britain and Ireland to find overlooked paintings and sculpture . They bought and sold hundreds of works by William Orpen , including On the Beach , Howth ( 1910 ) and A Summer Afternoon . In 1996 they set up the Orpen Research Fund to further enhance knowledge of the artist 's work . <p> Throughout the 1980s and 1990s they brought work by the greatest Irish artists to London . In their 1982 show , The Irish Revival , they exhibited works by John Lavery , John Luke , Walter Osborne , Paul Henry , Jack B Yeats and Louis Le Brocquy . <p> Other artists promoted by them included Rita Duffy , Hector McDonnell , Norah McGuinness , Nano Reid and Mainie Jellett . They also championed the art of modern artist Mary Swanzy . <p> One of their shrewdest purchases came when they paid $7.7 million for Edvard Munch 's 1902 painting Girls on the Bridge , in 1996 . They sold it on a few years later for $30.8 million . <h> Politician <p> John Bruton , who died on February 6th , aged 76 , was taoiseach and European Union ambassador to the United States . <p> From a farming family in Dunboyne , Co Meath , he was elected to the D ? il in 1969 for Fine Gael at the age of 22 . He was appointed minister for finance in 1981 and became party leader at the end of 1990 . <p> He had the unique distinction of being the only person in the history of the State to become taoiseach because of a change of government without an election halfway through a D ? il term . He succeeded to the office in December 1994 when the Labour Party pulled out of government with Fianna F ? il and did a deal with Fine Gael to form a new administration . <p> His rainbow coalition narrowly failed to win re-election in 1997 . After fighting off two challenges to his leadership , he fell to the third challenge in 2001 . <p> He was the European Union 's ambassador to the United States from 2004 to 2009 . After his return to Ireland he served as chairman of the financial services body IFSC Ireland and as chairman of Co-operation Ireland which promotes good relations between the two communities on the island of Ireland . He also took a leading role in the Brexit debate and gave evidence to the House of Lords in London about the implications of Brexit on the peace process . <h> Journalist <p> Michael O'Regan , who died on February 18th aged 70 , was an Irish Times parliamentary correspondent , political analyst and broadcaster . <p> After studying journalism in the College of Commerce , Rathmines , he got a job as a junior reporter with the Kerryman newspaper . It gave him an insight into local politics and he often said nothing could rival the bear pit that was Kerry politics . He won a national journalism award in 1980 and joined The Irish Times the following year . <p> In 1988 , he moved into politics and had a front-row seat to observe every political crisis that emerged in the following three decades . His encyclopedic knowledge of political constituencies and his ability to make politics interesting led to regular appearances on current affairs shows on radio and television . <p> He covered the Kerry Babies tribunal for this newspaper in 1985 and wrote a book , Dark Secrets , about the case , with Ger Colleran . <p> A Kerryman , he was a vociferous supporter of his native county and served as president of the Kerry Association in Dublin in recent years . He appeared on Radio Kerry 's Call From the D ? il slot on the Kerry Today show , where he provided a lively retelling of the week 's political events . <p> He wrote about his cancer diagnosis and ongoing health issues in this newspaper and after he retired in 2019 , he continued to be a regular voice on television and radio . <h> Food scientist <p> Prof Michael Gibney , one of Ireland 's most prominent food scientists and an internationally renowned researcher , died on February 23rd aged 75 . <p> He was professor of human nutrition at Trinity College Dublin Medical School for more than 20 years before moving to University College Dublin where he was professor of food and health . He was also director of the UCD Institute of Food and Health from 2006-2013 and was professor of nutrition at the University of Ulster from 2013-2016 . <p> At TCD he developed a worldwide reputation for his work on metabolic nutrition and molecular nutrition and became renowned for his work on public health nutrition . He was the first Irish person to be elected a fellow of the American Society for Nutrition . <p> Gibney served on food safety and health advisory committees and boards of national and international agencies and food manufacturing companies . He was a member of the EU scientific committees for food in the 1980s and 1990s and on public health , where he advised the European Commission on the BSE crisis . <p> He chaired the first EU expert group on recommended dietary allowance , which set out the average daily nutrient requirements for healthy individuals and also chaired the FAO/WHO joint consultation on dietary guidelines . <p> He chaired the Food Safety Authority of Ireland from 2013-2018 . A prolific writer , he was working on his fourth book when he died . <h> Journalist <p> Charlie Bird , who died on March 11th , was one of the best-known broadcast journalists in Ireland for nearly 40 years . As chief news correspondent , and special correspondent for RT ? , he reported on most major Irish and international news stories from the early 1980s until 2012 . <p> His death , at the age of 74 , followed his diagnosis with motor neuron disease in 2021 . He went public about his illness , and his decision to climb Croagh Patrick saw him raising more than ? 3.3 million for charity . <p> His journalism career started with a job in this newspaper 's library . He joined RT ? as a researcher in 1974 and quickly gained a reputation for diligence and resourcefulness on programmes including Seven Days and The Late Late Show . Recruited to the newsroom in 1980 , his reports on the Stardust fire in 1981 , and from the prison cell of the wrongly-jailed Irish priest Niall O'Brien in the Philippines in 1984 brought him to national prominence . <p> He became known for his distinctive reporting style and his empathy with subjects . His interview with Nelson Mandela in South Africa 's first post-apartheid general election in 1994 scooped the world 's media and featured in Mandela 's autobiography . Investigative work led to him being named Journalist of the Year , jointly with colleague George Lee , in 1998 , for investigating allegations of tax evasion at National Irish Bank . <h> Writer , actor <p> Malachy McCourt , theIrish-American actor and writer , died on March 11th , aged 92 . His celebrated biography , A Monk Swimming , followed the hugely successful memoir Angela 's Ashes , written by his older brother Frank . <p> Malachy McCourt was born in Brooklyn in 1931 but returned as a three-year-old to Ireland with his parents . He spent his formative years in Limerick and moved to England to find work , arriving back in New York at the age of 20 after Frank , working as a teacher in the city , sent him the fare . <p> A natural performer , he appeared regularly on soap operas -- notably Ryan 's Hope , on which he had a recurring role as a barman -- and played bit parts in several films such as Reversal of Fortune and Bonfire of the Vanities . He was a well-cast Henry VIII in a television commercial and he enjoyed periodic turns as a television and radio host . <p> In the 1950s he opened what was considered Manhattan 's original singles bar : Malachy 's , on the Upper East Side . <p> His biography was a bestseller when published in 1998 and he followed it with Singing My Him Song in 2000 , and Death Need Not Be Fatal in 2017 . <p> He ran for governor of New York in 2006 but lost out to Eliot Spitzer . <h> Actor <p> Emmet Bergin , who died on March 15th aged 79 , became a household name in the 1980s when he took on the role of the urbane solicitor Dick Moran in Glenroe . <p> After beginning his theatrical career as an assistant stage manager at the Eblana Theatre , he soon moved towards the spotlight . He appeared in the debut production of Brian Friel 's Philadelphia , Here I Come ! at the Gaiety Theatre during Dublin Theatre Festival in September 1964 and toured with the Abbey and the Irish Theatre Company . <p> Known for his versatility , he played Biff in Death of a Salesman , Eilert L ? vborg in Hedda Gabler and Mr Parksy in The Unexpected Man . In 1969 , he had a small part in David Lean 's film Ryan 's Daughter and later appeared alongside Gabriel Byrne in John Boorman 's Excalibur , as Sir Ulfius . <p> He joined the cast of RT ? ' s Sunday-night staple Glenroe in 1983 and his character 's forbidden romance with the then-married Mary McDermott brought him to a whole new level of fame . Such was his charisma , viewers did not turn on his character after Dick Moran had a fling with businesswoman Terry Killeen while married to Mary . <p> He continued to work after Glenroe was cancelled in 2001 and played Sunday Independent editor Aengus Fanning in Joel Schumacher 's Veronica Guerin movie in 2003 . <h> IRA bombmaker , art thief <p> Rose Dugdale , who died on March 18th aged 82 , was an IRA member and bombmaker but also a wealthy British heiress and Wittgenstein scholar . She was presented as a 17-year-old to Queen Elizabeth as part of the 1958 summer debutante season . She studied economics , politics and philosophy at Oxford , before becoming involved in IRA activities during the Troubles . She said it was Bloody Sunday in 1972 that prompted her to join the paramilitary group . <p> In 1973 , her future husband Eddie Gallagher recruited her to assist him in seizing a helicopter , from which he attempted to bomb a barracks in Strabane . <p> The following year she was a member of the gang that stole 19 paintings -- then valued at IR ? 8 million -- from Russborough House . Sir Alfred Beit and his wife Lady Clementine were bound and gagged during the raid and the paintings were later found in Co Cork . <p> She was jailed for the robbery and gave birth to her son in Limerick Prison . <p> Gallagher , who remained at large , subsequently kidnapped Dutch businessman Tiede Herrema , demanding in vain Dugdale 's release in exchange for Herrema 's . She continued her involvement with the IRA after being released from prison and with partner Jim Monaghan she developed several lethal home-made explosive devices . <p> She was the subject of a new book , television series and film in recent years . <h> Doctor <p> Eilish Cleary , the Dublin-born doctor and public health advocate , died aged 60 , on March 22nd . After training as a GP , she spent most of her working life in Canada . In Northern Manitoba she worked with Cree Nation , one of the largest indigenous communities in that part of Canada , and she became a strong advocate for equity in healthcare for First Nations communities . Soon after , she got a job as assistant chief medical officer in Winnipeg , Manitoba , and later became chief medical officer for New Brunswick . <p> She played a key role in the province 's fight against the 2009 swine flu pandemic . <p> In 2012 , she issued a report about the negative impacts of fracking on public health and the environment . She was later seconded from her job to work on fighting Ebola in West Africa with the World Health Organisation . <p> She was fired without explanation from her post in 2015 , after she had begun investigating glyphosate , a herbicide widely used on forest lands in New Brunswick . There were public demonstrations in front of the Health Department 's office and calls from academics and physicians for her reinstatement but to no avail . <p> Not long after her termination , Cleary received the President 's Award from the Public Health Physicians of Canada , for her " outstanding contribution to public health and preventive medicine " . <h> Sculptor <p> Imogen Stuart was one of Ireland 's leading sculptors and her works can be found in churches and public spaces all over the island . She died on March 24th , aged 96 . <p> She grew up in Germany but came to Ireland in 1949 after meeting her future husband Ian Stuart , son of Francis Stuart and Iseult Gonne . <p> Working mainly on church commissions , she honed her distinctive style which was influenced by German expressionism , Romanesque style and early Irish Christian art . <p> Her significant church commissions included the Angel of Peace at St Teresa 's Carmelite Church on Dublin 's Clarendon Street , the decorative doors of Galway Cathedral , the altar and baptismal font in UCC 's Honan Chapel , and the monumental sculpture of Pope John Paul II in Maynooth . <p> Among her other key works are The Fiddler Of Dooney at Stillorgan Shopping Centre , the Flame Of Human Dignity in the courtyard of the Centre Culturel Irlandais in Paris , and The Arch Of Peace , in Cavan town . <p> Her numerous awards include the Oireachtas art exhibition award and the ESB Keating McLoughlin Award at the Royal Hibernian Academy annual exhibition . She was elected a member of Aosd ? na in 1981 and a full member of the RHA in 1990 . She was awarded the Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 2018 -- the highest tribute paid to individuals for services to Germany . <h> Poet , writer <p> Michael Coady , the poet and short story writer , died at the age of 84 on March 25th . <p> From Tipperary , he trained as a schoolteacher and saw his first poem published in the New Irish Writing page of the Irish Press . In 1979 , he won the Patrick Kavanagh Award -- a prize for emerging Irish poets -- and Gallery Press published his first collection of poems , Two for a Woman , Three for a Man , soon after . <p> In 2004 he won the Laurence O'Shaughnessy Award , presented by the University of St Thomas in St Paul , Minnesota , to outstanding Irish poets . His short stories won the Francis McManus Prize and the Listowel Writers ' Week short story award . <p> In the 1990s , Arts Council bursaries allowed him to travel to Newfoundland and the United States . He held the Heimbold Chair of Irish Studies at Villanova University in 2005 and he also held a residency at the Centre Culturel Irlandais in Paris . He was elected to Aosd ? na in 1998 . <p> As a self-styled " lapsed trombone player ' ' , music was a constant theme in his work and he collaborated with composers such as Rhona Clarke and Bill Whelan . Other publications include a personal memoir of the musicians Packie and Micho Russell , and Full Tide , an illustrated miscellany . <h> Soccer player , manager <p> Former Republic of Ireland defender and Wimbledon manager Joe Kinnear died on April 7th , at the age of 77 . <p> He was born in Crumlin , Dublin , but moved to Hertfordshire in England with his mother when his parents separated . After excelling in schoolboy football , he was playing for St Alban 's City when he was spotted by a Tottenham Hotspur scout and signed . By the age of 20 he was the club 's established right-back and starred in their FA Cup final win over Chelsea at Wembley in May 1967 . Kinnear would win several more medals with Spurs : a pair of League Cups in 1971 and 1973 , and a Uefa Cup in 1972 . <p> He made his Ireland debut in a European Championship qualifier against Turkey in Ankara in 1967 and went on to win 26 caps with the Republic of Ireland during his career . <p> His final playing season was with Brighton before knee trouble forced him to retire in 1976 , aged 30 . <p> He served his coaching apprenticeship as an assistant to Dave Mackay at two clubs in the UAE . He also managed Nepal and India before returning to Britain . Kinnear went on to manage Wimbledon from 1992-1999 until a heart attack led to his resignation . He later returned to work , managing Oxford , Luton , Nottingham Forest and , most recently , Newcastle . <h> Sailor <p> Jo English , who died on April 8th , aged 59 , was a sailor and co-manager of SailCork , the sailing school based in Cobh . <p> She studied hotel and catering management in Galway and spent many years in the hospitality business before sailing became her life . She worked in hotels in San Francisco , in the Blarney Park Hotel , the catering department of the Mercy Hospital in Cork and as a manager in Brennan 's catering emporium in the city . <p> An accomplished cook , in the mid-1990s , she opened her own cafe and deli , The Bluebell Nook , in Mallow . <p> When she met her husband Eddie English , she gave up her job and joined him in the sailing school . She first completed all the sailing courses the business offered , and later took over a lot of the administration , dividing her time between the business and rearing of their two children . <p> For almost 20 years the couple ran SailCork 's " sunshine yachting holidays " , bringing groups on chartered boats in the Mediterranean and Caribbean seas . He did the teaching while she did the cooking and she was known for producing exceptional meals from the confined galleys of boats . <h> Television producer <p> The RT ? producer and social justice campaigner Larry Masterson died on April 14th , aged 74 . <p> From Dublin 's Gardiner Street , he studied social science at UCD . After attending a talk at Trinity College by a co-founder of the Simon Community in London , he and friends Brian McCarthy and Denis Cahalane set up the Simon Community in Dublin . <p> After graduating , he worked in social services in Drogheda and appeared on panel shows to discuss the social issues of the day . This led to him being offered a job as a researcher on Bunny Carr 's Encounter . He went on to work with Mike Murphy on the series The Live Mike in the late 1970s and left RT ? with him in the early 1980s to start Emdee Productions with cinematographer Seamus Deasy . He also worked with Tyrone Productions and produced shows for TG4 , Channel 4 and the Discovery Channel among others . <p> One of his most significant projects was 2001 's If I Should Fall From Grace with God : The Shane MacGowan Story , which told the story of the Pogues singer and featured interviews with Nick Cave , Elvis Costello , Johnny Depp and Sin ? ad O'Connor . <p> He returned to RT ? as a freelance producer on Brendan O'Connor 's TV debut , The Saturday Night Show and was executive producer on The Late Late Show during the Pat Kenny and Ryan Tubridy years . He retired in 2017 . <h> Agent <p> Teri Hayden , who died April 18th aged 75 , was a trailblazing agent who guided the careers of many notable Irish actors including Brendan Gleeson , Domhnall Gleeson , Ruth Negga and Gabriel Byrne . <p> Her clients have won Golden Globes , Baftas , Tonys , Oliviers , Emmys and Academy Award nominations , as well as numerous Iftas . <p> From Derry , she studied economics and finance at Manchester University before working at RT ? . In the early 1980s she saw an opportunity in the growing demand for actors ' representation in Ireland , predicting that Irish theatre , TV and film was about to expand . <p> Soon she had become Ireland 's leading talent agent , and rapidly won respect and recognition for her skills . She was known as a fearless negotiator , determined to secure the best possible deal for her clients and she also brokered many projects , even when she had no stake in the productions . Brendan Gleeson dedicated his Ifta win for best supporting actor in The Banshees of Inisherin to Hayden , " who has led me through this minefield of a profession that we embrace for years and years " . Gabriel Byrne credited her with getting him the help he needed when he realised he had a problem with alcohol in the late 1990s . <p> She reportedly rejected an offer from an A-list Hollywood agency to buy her out , and the Dublin-based agency is now run by her son Karl . <h> Nature writer <p> The nature writer and TV and film producer Ethna Viney died on April 26th , aged 95 . <p> A woman of many careers , she first trained as a pharmacist and ran her own chemist shop in Killala where she also organised a group of women to form a cheese-making co-operative . She later moved to Dublin to study politics and economics in UCD . She married young British journalist Michael Viney in 1965 and worked as a researcher and producer in RT ? . <p> When the couple were in their 40s , they relocated to a remote cottage on one acre on the west coast of Mayo . While he began his weekly Another Life column for this paper , she took on many projects . She brought together the fishermen of north Connemara and south Mayo in a co-operative mussel farming project . <p> She was an editor of Technology Ireland and became a freelance writer for this paper on economics and women 's issues . And she was also a founder member of the Women 's Environmental Network ( WEN ) . <p> When Michael 's second column An Eye on Nature -- which answers readers ' queries -- began , she ran it for years under his name until she was finally acknowledged as the author . She also co-authored Ireland 's Ocean : A Natural History with him . Her documentary-making focused on features that dealt with the human impact on the environment . <h> Politician <p> Mary Banotti was a Fine Gael MEP , a presidential election candidate and a committed campaigner for the rights of women and children . She died on May 10th , just weeks before her 85th birthday . <p> She trained as a nurse which led to a stint as a development aid worker in Kenya . There she met and married an Italian doctor , Giovanni Banotti . After the marriage broke up , she returned to Dublin with her daughter in 1970 and threw herself into social causes involving the welfare of women . <p> She was a co-founder of Women 's Aid , which opened the first refuges for the victims of domestic violence , and she served as chairwoman of the Rutland Centre . Her appearances on RT ? led to her selection as a Fine Gael candidate to contest the 1983 Dublin Central byelection . While she failed to win that seat , she went on to win a seat in the European Parliament . <p> She continued to campaign for women 's and children 's rights and was the first EU mediator for parentally-abducted children . She was named one of the top 10 environmental legislators in Europe in the late 1980s . <p> In 1997 , she won the Fine Gael nomination to contest the presidency in succession to Mary Robinson but ultimately lost out to Mary McAleese . <h> Nursing director <p> Josephine Bartley , who served as director of nursing at Beaumont Hospital from its opening in 1987 to her retirement in 1998 , died on May 13th , aged 90 . She was also a founder member and former dean of the Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery in the Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland ( RCSI ) . <p> The Limerick-born nurse will be remembered as a driving force in the development of education and specialist training for nurses in Ireland during the time when the nursing profession began to have a higher status within the healthcare system . <p> Early in her career , she oversaw training for all registered nurses in regional centres throughout Ireland . During her time as dean of the Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery at the RCSI , the first four-year Bachelor of Nursing degree courses were offered at the college . She also conferred the first honorary fellowship of the Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery on St Teresa of Calcutta in Rome in 1992 . <p> A woman of strong faith , Bartley acted as matron of the volunteers for the Dublin Diocesan pilgrimage to Lourdes each year . She was also an active member of the Guild of Irish Catholic Nurses and represented the International Catholic Committee of Nurses and Medico-Social Assistants at the World Health Organisation in Geneva , Switzerland . <h> Businessman <p> Tony O'Reilly was remembered as Ireland 's first business superstar after his death on May 18th , at the age of 88 . <p> He first came to public attention as a rugby player who earned 29 caps for Ireland , and a record-breaking 37 tries with the British and Irish Lions . He enjoyed early business success as the head of Bord B ? inne -- the Irish Dairy Board , where he pioneered the dairy brand Kerrygold . <p> His stewardship of the Irish Sugar Company brought him into the orbit of Heinz and he would go on to become its chief executive . He bought into Independent Newspapers in the 1970s and built it into an international media empire with publications and broadcasting interests in South Africa , Australia , New Zealand and the UK . <p> His business interests took a downturn in the last decade and a half . His attempts to stave off the collapse of the Waterford Wedgwood business saw him suffer a huge financial loss . And he was involved in one of the most high-profile corporate clashes of recent decades when he lost control of Independent News and Media to Denis O'Brien . Once reported to be Ireland 's wealthiest person , he was declared bankrupt in 2015 . <p> A generous supporter of the arts and academic institutions , he was also a founder of the US Ireland Funds , which raised funds to promote peace and reconciliation . In 2001 he was knighted by the late Queen Elizabeth . <h> Businessman <p> Fran Rooney , who led Baltimore Technologies to a multibillion-dollar valuation , and went on to lead the FAI , died on May 20th , aged 67 . <p> An accomplished footballer , he played for Home Farm , Shamrock Rovers , St Patrick 's Athletic and Bohemians , and managed the Irish women 's soccer team between 1986 and 1991 . <p> He worked in several government departments and in National Irish Bank , before setting up Meridian International , a VAT processing company . Along with a group of investors , he bought Baltimore Technologies , which specialised in internet security , for the equivalent of about ? 381,000 in 1996 . <p> This coincided with the start of the boom in internet-related companies which led to Baltimore being listed on the Nasdaq in New York in 1999 . The company 's market capitalisation ballooned to more than $13 billion ( ? 12 billion ) putting Baltimore in the FTSE 100 , an index of the most valuable companies on the London market . When the dotcom bubble burst in 2000 , the value of the stock collapsed . Efforts to turn around the fortunes of the company failed and he stepped down as chief executive in 2001 . <p> He became chief executive of the FAI in 2003 , in part to implement the findings of the Genesis report commissioned after the Saipan saga , when Roy Keane left the squad in the run-up to the 2002 World Cup . He left the association in 2004 . <h> Journalist , author <p> Joe Joyce , who died on June 6th aged 76 , was an award-winning investigative journalist and author . <p> His first reporting job was with The Irish Times , where he gravitated towards politics , as well as justice and policing matters . With colleagues Renagh Holohan and Don Buckley he wrote a series of Irish Times investigations into the activities of the Garda 's Murder Squad , known more colloquially as the Heavy Gang . <p> Along with Don Buckley , he revealed the Kerry Babies incident in 1984 , while writing in the Sunday Independent . They detailed how garda ? had obtained confessions from an entire family to a murder that subsequent forensic evidence proved they could not have committed . <p> He twice received the national Journalist of the Year award for his investigative work . <p> He left his staff job in 1978 and went freelance , working for Reuters news agency , Hibernia magazine and the Southside newspaper . He also worked for the Sunday Tribune and the Guardian . <p> He was co-author , with Peter Murtagh , of The Boss , a biography of the 1982 government of the former Fianna F ? il leader Charles Haughey , and of Blind Justice , an examination of the Sallins mail train robbery and subsequent investigation . <p> In later life he became an accomplished author , penning a series of thrillers , historical novels , plays and a biography of the Guinness family . <h> Musician <p> Charlie Lennon , who died on June 8th , was a traditional musician and prolific composer . He died a month before his 86th birthday and just a few nights after a memorable concert performance by fiddle player Martin Hayes in Lennon 's Sti ? ideo Cuan , in Spiddal . <p> Originally from Kiltyclogher , Co Leitrim , he studied classical piano but could n't resist his first love , the fiddle . <p> He embarked on a professional career as a musician as a young teen , touring with bands across Ireland and the UK , playing a wide mix of styles including English and Scottish country music . <p> He later returned to education and excelled academically , receiving his PhD in nuclear physics in 1969 . While he worked as a software and management consultant , he pursued a parallel life as a prolific performer , recording artist and composer . <p> Lennon recorded more than 50 albums , both as a fiddle player and as a piano accompanist . He regularly played with Matt Molloy , Mick O'Connor , Johnny Connolly , Joe Burke and many others , and his tunes were sought out by musicians such as Frankie Gavin . <p> He began to compose orchestral works in the 1980s , leading in 1991 to the performance of Bainis Oile ? in/Island Wedding , by the RT ? Concert Orchestra . Later orchestral works included The Famine Suite and ? ille na h ? ille . He was awarded the TG4 Gradam Ceoil for Composer of the Year in 2006 . <h> Co-founder of the Progressive Democrats <p> Paul Mackay , who died on June 11th aged 83 , was one of co-founders of the Progressive Democrats ( PDs ) , along with Des O'Malley , Mary Harney and Michael McDowell . <p> He qualified as a chartered accountant in 1965 and began a private practice specialising in corporate recovery in 1971 . <p> An admirer of Se ? n Lemass , he joined the Clontarf cumann of Fianna F ? il in the 1960s . He was made auditor of the party finances in Charlie Haughey 's Dublin North East constituency in 1981 , but after he asked to see the accounts , a dispute followed and he was dismissed in May 1983 . <p> Two years later Des O'Malley was also expelled from Fianna F ? il and Mackay told him he would have strong support should he form a new political party . The party was formed at Mackay 's home in December 1985 and a reluctant O'Malley agree to lead it . <p> Mackay raised the bank loan for party headquarters in Dublin 's South Frederick Street and played a central role in the 1987 general election when the PDs won 14 seats . He was director of elections in the 1989 contest which saw the party reduced to six seats but ended up into government with Fianna F ? il . <p> Over the following two decades , Mackay played a leading role in the PDs as treasurer and election strategist . <h> Journalist <p> Tommie Gorman died on June 25th , three years after he retired from his role as RT ? ' s Northern Editor . The Sligo-born journalist was 68 years of age . <p> His first byline as a journalist appeared in The Sligo Champion , over match reports on his beloved Sligo Rovers ' games in Dublin , when he was studying journalism in the College of Commerce , Rathmines . He went on to work as a correspondent for the Western Journal and became its editor aged 23 . He joined RT ? in 1980 as its northwest correspondent . In 1989 , he moved to Brussels to become its Europe correspondent . <p> In 1994 he was diagnosed with neuroendocrine tumours , a rare form of cancer , and lived stoically with it for 30 years . He highlighted his success in accessing treatment for his illness in Sweden via an EU scheme , which encouraged others to explore this option . <p> As RT ? ' s Northern editor , he reported on Stormont politics from 2001 and earned the trust of leading politicians across the political spectrum . He also landed one of the most memorable sporting scoops when he secured an interview with footballer Roy Keane after he left Saipan in the build-up to the 2002 World Cup . <p> He retired from RT ? in March 2021 . He made several documentaries , the last of which was Ireland , Cancer and Me , a personal account of living with neuroendocrine tumours . <h> Broadcaster <p> Miche ? l ? Muircheartaigh 's voice was a constant summer companion for generations of GAA supporters . He made his radio debut in 1949 and commentated on his last All-Ireland final on television in 2010 , earning himself a place in the Guinness World Records for his longevity . He was as popular for his GAA knowledge as for his unique turn of phrase and distinctive Kerry lilt . <p> His passion for Gaelic games was matched only by his love for the Irish language and his native Kerry . He was a student teacher when he broadcast the 1949 Railway Cup football final and he combined broadcasting work with teaching until 1981 when he took up a full-time post with Raidi ? na Gaeltachta . <p> He took part in RT ? ' s first television broadcast of the All-Ireland hurling final in 1962 , alternating Irish language commentary with Se ? n ? g ? Ceallach ? in doing English . In 1964 he took over the live television coverage as Gaeilge of All-Ireland minor finals . <p> From 1985 , he broadcast English radio commentary on all All-Ireland senior finals -- a total of 55 , including replays . His friend , Raidi ? na Gaeltachta commentator Miche ? l ? S ? , told his funeral mass that his gifts as a broadcaster would remain unequalled . " The microphone in his hand was like the brush in the hand of a great master , " he said . <h> Judge <p> District Court judge Elizabeth ( Liz ) MacGrath died on July 3rd , aged 65 , after a short illness . She began practising as a solicitor in the mid-1980s in the firm established by her grandfather and county solicitor for Tipperary , Patrick MacGrath . In 1989 , she set up her own solicitor practice , MacGrath and Co , in Nenagh , taking on cases in criminal and civil litigation , family law , probate and conveyancing . She also represented the local authority in planning , environmental and regulatory matters . <p> She was appointed as judge of the District Court in 2007 , and in 2012 she was assigned to District Court 8 , which covers her home county of Tipperary . <p> MacGrath had a reputation as a straightforward and reasonable criminal judge and was not afraid to speak publicly on legal matters and in defence of her profession . In 2016 , she spoke out about the limitations of the judicial system to enforce drink-driving legislation and to prosecute drunken drivers . She also wrote so-called bench books for judges on her experiences of case law and legislation -- particularly in relation to drink driving . <p> She was president of the District Judges Association and was the elected District Court representative on the board of the Judicial Council , which promotes high standards of conduct among judges . <h> Football manager , politician <p> The All-Ireland winning manager and Fine Gael TD and senator John O'Mahony died on July 6th , aged 71 . <p> As a player he won a minor All-Ireland medal with Mayo in 1971 , and an U21 medal in 1974 . He would go on to manage the U21 team and led the county to the 1983 All-Ireland U21 title . <p> He was an early adopter of the inclusion of sports psychology and performance coaching with his teams and he earned his reputation as a pioneering leader with a series of historic triumphs . <p> In 1989 , he brought Mayo to a first senior All-Ireland final in 38 years . His leadership saw Leitrim winning a first Connacht championship in 67 years in 1994 , while he led Galway to its first Sam Maguire in 32 years in 1998 , and another in 2001 . <p> He took over Mayo for a second term in 2007 and won the Connacht championship in 2009 . He was also a respected pundit in local and national media outlets , including as a columnist for this newspaper . <p> He won a seat for Fine Gael in the 2007 general election and was re-elected in 2011 . After constituency lines were redrawn , he lost out on a seat in Galway West but went on to serve in the Seanad from 2016 to 2020 . <h> Judge <p> The barrister and Supreme Court judge Hugh Geoghegan died on July 7th , aged 86 . <p> He came from a long line of legal experts that dated back to the 1840s . His father James was a minister for justice , attorney general and Supreme Court judge . His wife Ms Justice Mary Finlay Geoghegan was also a Supreme Court judge , and two of their children became barristers . <p> He was called to the Bar in 1962 and became a senior counsel in 1977 , practising in Dublin and the Midland Circuit . He appeared as counsel before the tribunal into the Stardust fire disaster and chaired a commission that recommended the formation of the Labour Relations Commission . <p> From 1984 , he combined a busy practice with service as Public Service Arbitrator and was known for his courtesy and fairness to all parties . <p> He was appointed a judge of the High Court in 1992 and became a judge of the Supreme Court eight years later . When he retired in 2010 , he was feted as one of the most respected and well-loved judges of his time , whose judgments were infused with humanity and compassion . He went on to chair the Barristers ' Professional Conduct Appeals Board and was the Independent Appeals Commissioner for the College of Surgeons . He was active in the Irish Legal History Society and wrote several ground-breaking essays on the early legal history of independent Ireland . <h> Charity worker <p> Justin Kilcullen was the public face of Tr ? caire , the overseas development agency of the Catholic Church , but he also supported numerous organisations helping disadvantaged people . He died on July 16th , aged 73 . <p> A trained architect , he was inspired by his two Jesuit missionary uncles to work with Voluntary Service Overseas ( VSO ) in Tanzania . He later worked with the United Nations refugee agency UNHCR , where he helped develop housing facilities for Vietnamese boat-people and Cambodian refugees . In 2002 , he was awarded the Robert Matthew Prize by the International Union of Architects for his work on human settlements . On his return to Ireland , he worked with the Voluntary Housing Association movement in Belfast to refurbish inner-city housing on the Falls and Shankill Roads . <p> He joined Tr ? caire in 1981 as Africa programme officer and was appointed executive director in 1993 . He held that position for 20 years until his retirement in 2013 . In 2019 , he was awarded a papal knighthood of the Order of St Gregory the Great for people of distinguished character , reputation and accomplishment . Caoimhe de Barra , current chief executive of Tr ? caire , said he had " a passion for justice and a deep belief in the dignity and rights of every human being which drove and defined him " . <h> Writer <p> Edna O'Brien , the novelist , short-story writer , playwright and screenwriter died on July 27th , aged 93 . Her trilogy of novels which debuted in the early 1960s -- The Country Girls , The Lonely Girl later renamed Girl with Green Eyes and Girls in Their Married Bliss -- were banned by the Irish censorship board . <p> She wrote more than 20 novels , biographies of James Joyce and Lord Byron , plays , screenplays and a memoir . <p> Born in Tuamgraney , Co Clare , she had a well-publicised love-hate relationship with her native country and lived abroad for most of her life . She never baulked at tackling difficult subjects and themes of her later novels included murder , terrorism and rape . Her final novel , Girl , was published in her late 80s , and involved her travelling to Nigeria to carry out research . <p> Among her numerous awards were the Kingsley Amis Award , the Los Angeles Times Book Prize , the European Prize for Literature and the Pen Nabokov Award for Achievement in International Literature . She was also a member of Aosd ? na and was elected as a Saoi ( wise one ) in 2015 . <p> President Michael D Higgins said she was " a fearless teller of truths " and " one of the first writers to provide a true voice to the experiences of women in Ireland in their different generations " . <h> Disability campaigner <p> Leigh Gath , who died on July 27th , aged 62 , was a thalidomide survivor who spent her adult life campaigning for the rights of people with disabilities . <p> She was born with shortened arms and legs , due to the side effects of the morning sickness drug thalidomide . Growing up in Newry , Co Down , she advocated for those who did n't have the confidence to speak up for themselves . When she was campaigning for accessible footpaths , she led local MP Enoch Powell down the centre of a busy street to show him the obstacles facing wheelchair-users . <p> In 1991 she married her first husband and the couple later moved to Texas . After they divorced , she met and married a fellow thalidomide survivor , Irish man Eugene Gath , in 2003 . The family returned to live in Co Limerick in 2006 and she became involved in disability issues . In 2012 she led a sleep-out outside the Department of the Taoiseach to protest against cuts to personal assistance and home-help services for people with disabilities . <p> She was appointed the HSE 's first confidential recipient in late 2014 , following the abuse scandal in the ? ras Attracta centre for adults with intellectual disabilities in Co Mayo . Her job involved examining concerns relating to HSE-funded services for people with disabilities and older people . <h> Aid worker <p> Aidan O'Leary , the Irish director of the World Health Organisation 's polio eradication programme , died on August 6th aged 59 . Known for his collaborative leadership style and his ability to solve complex problems , he worked in war-torn parts of the world including Gaza , Yemen , Afghanistan , Syria and Iraq . <p> The Dubliner joined the Irish Army in 1983 and served initially in the Supply and Transport Corps in Cork and Dublin . As part of his military service , he completed a degree and master 's in economics and also studied chartered accountancy . <p> He was seconded to the Department of Finance in 1991 as a policy analyst for a year and became the right-hand man of the chiefs of staff as a strategic planner . During this period , O'Leary did two tours to Lebanon and one to Yugoslavia . He was promoted to captain during this period . <p> In 2000 , he was headhunted to work for the Organisation for Security Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) . He went on to work for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency with Palestinian refugees , the Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs , the United Nations Children 's Emergency Fund ( Unicef ) and finally the WHO . He moved to Geneva to head its polio eradication programme in 2021 . One of his last tasks involved preparing for two rounds of polio vaccination campaigns for young children in Gaza . <h> Journalist , campaigner <p> Nell McCafferty was remembered as a fierce and feisty campaigning journalist and author when she died on August 21st aged 80 . <p> From the Bogside in Derry , she fought for equal rights for women and gay people and railed against social injustice . She became involved in civil rights politics as a student at Queen 's University Belfast in the 1960s , before becoming a journalist with The Irish Times and a founder member of the Irish Women 's Liberation Movement . She was on the famous contraceptive train which brought condoms and pills from Belfast to Dublin , where they were illegal , in 1971 . <p> Her reports from the courts in the In the Eyes of the Law series broke new ground between 1970 and 1980 . In vivid , searing and humorous prose she brought a fresh insight into what was happening in the courts . <p> Among her noted works were the book A Woman to Blame , on the ordeal of Joanne Hayes in the Kerry babies ' case , and The Armagh Women , on woman republican prisoners and their hunger strikes in Armagh jail . She also wrote for In Dublin , the Sunday Tribune and Hot Press and was a regular contributor to news and current affairs shows . <p> Veteran civil rights campaigner Eamon McCann said she had changed the world " and in the course of that she entranced as many women as she alarmed men ... they had never seen or heard the like of her " . <h> Nun , campaigner <p> Sr Theresa Kane , who died on August 22nd aged 87 , was a Catholic nun who publicly challenged Pope John Paul II to allow women to become priests . <p> The Irish-American was just 27 when she was named chief executive of St Francis Hospital in Port Jervis , New York . She became the head of the Sisters of Mercy 's New York province a few years later , and in 1977 , president of the entire order . She was also president of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious . <p> In 1979 , she was chosen to give a welcome address for Pope John Paul II during his Washington visit . A few days earlier , in Philadelphia , he had made his opposition to the ordination of women clear . Not to be dissuaded she told him that , in order to join the pope in his mission , women needed to be equal participants within the church hierarchy . <p> Sr Theresa 's address was televised and was front page news in the New York Times and in this newspaper . She faced a backlash after her speech , as did the groups she led , under both Pope John Paul II and his successor , Pope Benedict . <p> She was a leading figure among progressive Catholic women and took liberal positions on issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage . She was among the first prominent church figures to champion the rights of LGBTQ+ Catholics . <h> Estate agent , mediator <p> Paul Good , the co-founder of Douglas Newman Good ( DNG ) property agency , died on August 24th , aged 83 . Widely respected within the property industry , he was renowned for his expertise in arbitration , mediation , compulsory purchase order negotiations and commercial valuations . <p> He initially studied architecture before switching to quantity surveying . The firms he worked with included Donal O'Buachalla , Jones Lang LaSalle , Lisneys , Dublin Corporation and Druker Fanning . In 1982 he joined forces with Edmund Douglas and Paul Newman to establish DNG , which went on to be one of the country 's leading commercial and residential property agencies . <p> In 1994 Good left DNG to work for himself . During the following three decades , he did commercial and residential sales and rental valuations and acted as a mediator in disputes between landlords and tenants , and homeowners faced with compulsory purchase orders . He was also an independent expert for the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors , the Society of Chartered Surveyors Ireland , the now defunct Irish Auctioneers and Valuers Institute and the Law Society . <p> Between 2009-2011 , while the financial crisis was raging , he reviewed more than 100 projects for WK Nowlan Consortium on behalf of the National Asset Management Agency . He was also a member of the Private Residential Tenancies Board 's Dispute Resolution Committee . <h> Poet <p> Fred Johnston , the Belfast-born poet , died on September 9th , shortly before his 73rd birthday . He was also a translator , literary critic , musician and human-rights campaigner . <p> He moved to Dublin in 1969 and was awarded a Hennessy Prize in the New Irish Writing section of the Irish Press three years later . <p> He settled in Galway in 1978 after attending a writer 's workshop there . Johnston 's first book of poetry , Life and Death in the Midlands , and his first collection of short stories , Portrait of a Girl in a Spanish Hat , were published the following year . <p> He was one of the founders of the C ? irt Festival of Poetry and also set up the Western Writers ' Centre . In total , he produced three novels , four volumes of short stories , nine books of poetry and a play . His work as a critic was published in Poetry Ireland , The New Statesman , The Spectator , The Irish Times and Harper 's and Queen magazine . <p> A year spent in Algeria fostered his love of French and he later became a translator of the work of the Senegalese poet Babacar Sall and the Breton Colette Witorski . He was awarded the Prix de l'Ambassade by the French government in 2000 and was writer-in-residence at the Princess Grace Irish Library in Monaco in 2004 . <h> Garda <p> Assistant commissioner of An Garda S ? och ? na John O'Driscoll was remembered as a gifted leader and a skilled communicator , after his sudden death on September 27th , aged 64 . <p> He was credited with providing the leadership that helped garda ? to break the grip of gangland figures and seriously disrupt the activities of criminals such as the Kinahan family . <p> He joined the guards in 1981 and his early Garda career centred around the Dublin Metropolitan Area , chiefly Fitzgibbon Street , Store Street , and the Bridewell where he was inspector . While working in the north inner city , he put huge efforts into fostering links with the community and steering young people towards sport whenever possible . <p> In 2000 , he was transferred into the Garda National Immigration Bureau and was asked to lead the office in 2009 . He had been promoted to chief superintendent at this stage and he oversaw prosecutions against child traffickers and people smuggling . <p> He took over as head of the National Drugs Unit in 2014 and became head of the National Bureau of Criminal Investigation the following year . His promotion to assistant commissioner in 2016 gave him the responsibility for combating organised and serious crime and made him the public face of these Garda operations . <p> After 41 years of service , he retired in 2022 . His memoir , On Duty : Reflections on a Life in the Guards , was published after his death . <h> Politician <p> Mary O'Rourke , who died aged 87 on October 3rd , held senior positions in government and opposition for 30 years . After her political career ended , she remained in the public eye as a media pundit and author of a bestselling memoir . <p> While she came from a leading Fianna F ? il family -- the Lenihans of Athlone -- she carved out a political career on her own merits . She served in several senior ministries , including education and public enterprise , and was deputy leader of Fianna F ? il from 1994 to 2002 . <p> When Charlie Haughey appointed her as minister for education after the 1987 general election , the minister for foreign affairs was her brother Brian Lenihan . They remain the only brother and sister to have served together in Cabinet . <p> She was one of the shock losers in the 2002 general election but was elected to the Seanad and became leader of the House . <p> O'Rourke relished the cut and thrust of politics , enjoying spats with opponents and the intrigue that went with internal party manoeuvring . She cultivated good relationships with political journalists in Leinster House and was always a lively and entertaining guest on current affairs shows . <p> Fianna F ? il leader Miche ? l Martin said she was a " a commanding and engaging figure -- an insightful observer of both political life and societal trends " . <h> Journalist <p> David Davin-Power had a long and varied career in the media and was known for reporting on some of the momentous events in modern history in an incisive and impartial manner . He was 72 when he died on October 31st . <p> He began his career in journalism with the Irish Medical Times , and in 1976 he moved to the Irish Press as a subeditor , where one of his colleagues was David Hanly . The two of them moved to RT ? in the late 1970s and were appointed as the first presenters of Morning Ireland which went on air in November 1984 . The radio programme quickly developed a wide listenership , making household names of its two presenters . <p> He left RT ? to head the news operation of Ireland 's first commercial broadcaster , Century Radio in 1989 . After the station closed , he was appointed political correspondent at the Evening Press , and almost simultaneously , RT ? offered him the job of Northern Correspondent . He decided that broadcasting was where his future lay and headed for Belfast . His time in Northern Ireland coincided with a crucial period for the evolving peace process and he kept listeners and viewers up to date with the events that ultimately led to the Belfast Agreement . <p> In 2001 he returned to Dublin and held the role of RT ? ' s political correspondent for 16 years . His calm demeanour and precise use of language were the hallmarks of his broadcasting style . <h> Author , broadcaster , musician <p> Kathleen Watkins was a broadcaster , award-winning author , musician and patron of the arts . Her death , on November 7th at the age of 90 , came almost five years to the day after the death of her husband , broadcaster Gay Byrne . They were television 's golden couple and were familiar faces at arts and cultural events in Dublin for many decades . <p> She was an accomplished harpist and singer and made history as the first continuity announcer to appear on screen on the opening night of Telef ? s ? ireann on New Year 's Eve , 1961 . Her honeyed voice meant she was always in demand for voiceover work while her on-screen television work included presenting shows such as Faces &amp; Places and Holiday Ireland . <p> She said no one was surprised as she was when she became a children 's author at the age of 82 . Her three children 's books were based on stories she told her grandchildren about a piglet called Pig ? n . Her great love of poetry led to her compiling two books of poems -- An Ordinary Woman , in 2019 and One for Everyone , in 2020 . <p> President Michael D Higgins said Ms Watkins " represented the best of her generation in so many ways and during such a formative period in our country " . <h> Musician <p> Songwriter and musician Johnny Duhan died in a drowning accident in Galway on November 12th at the age of 74 . <p> Originally from Limerick , he joined the band Granny 's Intentions as a teenager and moved to Dublin , where he once shared a flat with Phil Lynott and Gary Moore . The band toured Ireland and the UK , and later moved to London . He composed eight of the band 's 11 songs on their sole album , Honest Injun . When he was 21 he struck out on his own and settled in Galway with his wife-to-be , Maureen . <p> Duhan wrote songs and performed solo in the early 1980s and occasionally toured with other bands . Artists who recorded his songs included Christy Moore , Dolores Keane , Mary Black and The Dubliners . Many years later , regular references to him in Ken Bruen 's series of Jack Taylor detective novels brought him new fans from all over the world . He also composed the music for the 1988 film Reefer and the Model . <p> His most famous song The Voyage was recorded by Christy Moore in 1989 and has become a folk standard . As well as his eight solo albums , he wrote a series of autobiographical books , beginning with There is a Timein 2001 , while Waltons published his songbook in 2003 . <h> Scientist <p> Prof Dervilla Donnelly , a chemist who made a major contribution to research , science policy and public service both in Ireland and abroad , died on November 14th , aged 94 . <p> She began her teaching career in University College Dublin ( UCD ) in 1956 in the old School of Chemistry and later moved with the university to its present location in Belfield . She was professor of phytochemistry -- the study of chemicals with biological activity derived from plants -- for 16 years . She was described by UCD as " one of the most respected and influential chemists " of the university . <p> Prof Donnelly was the first female president of the Royal Dublin Society , from 1989 to 1992 , and the first woman to receive the Royal Irish Academy 's highest honour , the Cunningham Medal , in 2017 . <p> Always in demand for her skills , she served as chairwoman of the Custom House Docks Development Authority , the National Education Convention and the Forum on Early Childhood Education . She was also chairwoman and director of the Commission on Assisted Human Reproduction from 2000-2005 . <p> In 2000 she was appointed to the Austrian Council for Science and Technology , a position she held for 10 years . <p> Other appointments include her presidency of the Institute of Chemistry of Ireland , governor of The Irish Times Trust and a director of The Irish Times Limited . <h> Comedian , actor <p> Jon Kenny , who died aged 67 on November 15th , was one of Ireland 's most beloved comedians , and a respected actor on stage and screen . He was also a talented musician who continued to write and perform songs throughout his life . <p> The Limerick man first found fame as one half of the D'Unbelievables , a duo he began with Pat Shortt , whom he met in the late 1980s . Their act became one of the biggest names in Irish comedy and they played to packed houses all year round . When Jon Kenny was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma in 2000 , he had to stop performing while receiving treatment . He returned to a successful solo career , while he and Shortt reunited for a sell-out D'Unbelievables tour in 2011 . <p> On television , he will be forever associated with the Father Ted series , where he played two roles -- the local cinema manager owner , and a Eurovision host -- but he excelled in straight parts too . His work included sharing the screen with Liam Neeson in Les Mis ? rables . He voiced a woodcutter in Wolf Walkers and portrayed Gerry the fiddler in The Banshees of Inisherin . He also appeared in Angela 's Ashes and The Van . <p> On stage , his portrayal of Bull McCabe in Shoestring Theatre Company 's run of John B Keane 's The Field received rave reviews , while he made the role of Dicky Mick Dicky O'Connor in The Matchmaker his own . <h> Politician <p> Gemma Hussey , who died on November 26th aged 86 , was the third woman to hold Cabinet office since independence . <p> After studying languages at UCD , she set up her own language school . She cofounded the Women 's Political Association and was its chairwoman from 1973 to 1975 . She was elected to the Seanad in 1977 as an Independent and , four years later , stood for Fine Gael in the general election . While she failed to win a D ? il seat at her first attempt she was re-elected to the Seanad and was appointed leader of the House by the incoming taoiseach Garret FitzGerald . <p> She was elected to the D ? il in the first general election of 1982 and when Fine Gael made it back into government in the second election of that year , she became minister for education . <p> She established aural and oral exams and created the National Parents Council , but it was the battle over teachers ' pay that dominated her tenure , as the government struggled to get public finances under control . <p> She also served as minister for social welfare and minister for labour before retiring from politics in 1989 . She wrote a memorable book about her time in office -- At the Cutting Edge : Cabinet Diaries 1982-1987 . <p> She later immersed herself in the European Women 's Federation , encouraging women in eastern Europe to become active in politics . <h> Singer <p> Singer and former Eurovision contestant for Ireland Dickie Rock died on December 6th at the age of 88 . <p> The Dubliner was one of the biggest stars of Ireland 's showband scene as a member of the Miami Showband and later as a solo artist , with a career spanning seven decades . <p> An apprentice welder , he was recruited to lead the Miami Showband in 1963 . That December , he enjoyed his first number one when the band covered Elvis 's There 's Always Me . In all , the band had seven number one hits during his tenure , with songs such as From the Candy Store on the Corner , in 1964 , and Every Step of the Way which became the first release by an Irish band to go straight to the top . <p> In 1966 , he came fourth in the Eurovision Song Contest in Luxembourg , with his song Come Back to Stay , another number one hit in Ireland . He left the Miami Showband in 1972 , three years before the group was ambushed by loyalist paramilitaries and three of its musicians murdered . <p> His first solo single , The Last Waltz , reached number 15 . But his biggest hit would be a cover of John Denver 's Back Home Again , which went to number one in 1977 . <p> He continued to tour to packed houses into his 80s , finally announcing his retirement at the age of 84 in 2021.
