<h> ' Narratively ingenious with gorgeously toothsome art and character design ' : The best graphic novels of 2024 <h> From Lynda Barry 's moving and frequently hilarious workbook for making and thinking to Se ? n Hogan 's ripping yarn set in a Tipperary town <p> Brotherhood Part 1 by Se ? n Hogan is a coming-of-age tale that recalls The War Of The Buttons and The Goonies <p> S ? amas O'Reilly <p> Sat Dec 28 2024 - 05:00 <p> Where do thoughts come from , and what even are they ? These , and other questions , form the basis for What It Is by Lynda Barry ( Drawn &amp; Quarterly ) , a joyous meditation on creativity by one of the world 's premier cartoonists . Barry is an interdisciplinary artist , whose latter work has been preoccupied with the craft of art itself . In 2019 's scintillating Making Comics , she made the case for , well , making comics , and in What It Is she ventures even further into the terrain of ideas , images and even thoughts themselves . <p> If that sounds heady and self-absorbed , the result is anything but . Laid out on her signature lined paper , short , biographical cartoons are interspersed with provocative thesis statements on creativity . Each section is headed with different axiomatic questions , pondering things such as : What are images , and are they alive ? ; What is the past , and what is it made of ? ; What 's the difference between memory and imagination ? <p> What It Is by Lynda Barry <p> There 's barely a page without a picture to marvel at , a line of prose that does n't make you sit upright and read again . Throughout , we get glimpses of Barry 's own backstory , a childhood that sat " somewhere between happy and unhappy " , and her path to liberation through art . Crammed with thousands of drawings , paintings and pasted-in photo collage works , this is nothing less than a workbook for making and thinking , a long , moving and frequently hilarious examination of the best way to go about either enterprise . This is a book that brims with urgent , empathetic clarity . <p> In Palestine ( 2024 Edition ) and War On Gazaby Joe Sacco ( Fantagraphics ) we encounter clarity of a different sort.Written in April , when Biden was still the presumptive US presidential nominee , War On Gaza is a 34-page broadside from one of comics ' most acerbic voices , an unflinching and sardonic swipe at the horrors of Israeli strikes in Gaza and the complicity of the United States -- and Biden specifically -- in their execution . Told in the form of short , punchy cartoon essays , it is a bitter howl of disgust aimed at throttling the reader 's conscience into submission -- a task at which it succeeds with grisly brio . <p> As a companion piece to Sacco 's Palestine -- first published in 1993 , but reprinted this year with a new foreword from the author -- the effect is deliberately , and necessarily , jarring . In Palestine , Sacco 's form is stringently documentarian , giving a thorough account of the hundreds of locals Sacco speaks to , as well as a deep sense of the author himself as an inserted protagonist ; the clueless westerner who begins his trip brimming with presumptions about a conflict he does n't understand . <p> Over the course of the following chapters , he is relieved of his gormless hubris , gaining a deeper understanding of the existing conflict , and the decades of turmoil that have preceded it . ( An equally excellent follow-up , Footnotes In Gaza , goes into further detail on massacres of Palestinians that took place in Rafah and Khan Younis in the 1950s ) . <p> It would probably have been impossible for Sacco to write War On Gaza in the boots-on-the-ground manner in which he wrote Palestine or Footnotes -- at least 180 journalists have been killed there in the past 12 months . But , to those of us who first experienced those works 20 or 30 years ago , their effect is enhanced ; suffused , throughout , with the depressing sense that their snapshots of life and death , of pain and struggle , have now been rendered obsolete by horrors even worse . <p> Sunday by Olivier Schrauwen <p> Sunday by Olivier Schrauwen ( Fantagraphics ) has an annoyingly simple premise : it purports to be an exacting , minute-by-minute record of a single wasted Sunday in the life of the author 's cousin , Thibault . We watch as our protagonist whiles away the hours , pondering what to eat , whether he should have a smoke , or a drink , or buy a pastry from his local Turkish shop , and frets constantly over unanswered messages from his girlfriend , Migali . <p> In actual fact , we experience it with him , for almost all of the book 's " text " is related through his internal thoughts and feelings , delivered in a stream of consciousness that will be uncannily familiar to anyone who 's faced down the burning tedium of a nothing-happening type of day . <p> We are not , however , constrained to the small world to which he restricts himself . While we never leave Thibault 's internal monologue , Schrauwen 's eye leads us off-frame and around the houses ; to neighbours running errands , mice escaping local cats , Migali making her way back from a trip in Gambia , and his wayward cousin Rik attempting to plan a surprise gathering for Thibault 's imminent 36th birthday . <p> By itself , closely depicting an interior life is not new . Ulysses mined such deep-buried material more than a century ago -- and did so with similarly unvarnished detours into paranoia , drunkenness and erotic thoughts -- but Schrauwen 's gift for elevating the mundane spins gold from lead at every turn . This large book might prove daunting for some , but delivers dividends when digested in chunks -- a tactic espoused by the author himself , who pops into frame to tell you to put the book down for a while and have a coffee . <p> Sunday is the something and nothing of life at its most everyday , raised to the point of literature by an artist at the peak of his powers . <p> Hot House by John Hankiewicz <p> Hot House by John Hankiewicz ( Fieldmouse Press ) is an entirely text-free experience that challenges the reader to discern meaning from domestic scenes , arranged in an uninterrupted series of four-panel grids . Two adults live in a house while rarely interacting with each other , spending their days instead indulging in mundane chores ; folding laundry , sweeping floors . Repeated motifs -- twigs , washing lines , a naked little boy -- give proceedings a randomised flashcard quality as the exact nature of their relationship , and the reality we 're observing , come in and out of focus . <p> It 's hard , sometimes , to judge when text-free comics migrate from the inscrutable to the profound , but as with last year 's The Gull Yettinby Joe Kessler , Hot House manages this task without slipping into the trap of being too ponderous by half . <p> However cryptic , one feels its mysteries can be divined through careful reading , even if no two readers might come to the same conclusion . <p> Brotherhood , Part 1 by Se ? n Hogantakes us back to 1920 , and a Tipperary town gripped by the violent conflict then spreading across Ireland . Teenage boy Macdara would rather be reading cowboy novels and playing with his dog , when his life intersects with the War of Independence in a manner more grisly than he could have desired . After accidentally killing a Black and Tan soldier with an all too well-placed rock , he finds himself needing to cover up his crime . So , together with his friends Colm , Seamus and Ciara , he forms the Brotherhood , a rag-tag crew of misfits that flatters itself as an elite paramilitary unit for their own self-defence . <p> Hogan 's script captures the central tension between these kids ' desire to do great deeds for Ireland and their ignorance of the terrifying realities of the adult world . Their speech is peppered with the sort of grandstanding derring-do beloved of Boy 's Own fiction and British war comics of the 20th century , albeit undergirded with their natural terror of all the actual violence , and actual death , encroaching all around them . <p> The beats of the story , from their troubled home lives to the dawning realisation that heroism is easier to read about than undertake in real life , recall other coming-of-age tales from War Of The Buttons to The Goonies . Hogan ably transposes that form to 1920s Ireland with a canny script and clean , black-and-white lines . The Brotherhood is a ripping yarn that has something dark bubbling from within its hidden centre . At its heart , it tells two stories , and tells them well ; of children attempting to meet the challenges of adulthood ; and of a country reckoning with the unfathomable horrors of war . <p> Rune : The Tale Of A Thousand Faces by Carlos S ? nchez <p> Rune : The Tale Of A Thousand Faces by Carlos S ? nchez(Nobrow)is a sprightly , colourful fantasy aimed at younger readers , but with more than enough joys for all ages . Best friends Chiri and Dai are students at a Catholic school , constantly beset by bullies for their nerdy ways . We do n't get to spend too much time in that world , however , as most of the book 's events take place in Puddin ' , a fantasyland to which they find themselves transported early on . <p> Puddin ' is a place of dark magic , beset by rumours of a returning nemesis known only as The Shadow King , a dark sorcerer with the ability to possess and control his subjects . So far , so rote -- but what elevates Rune above many similarly tropey stories is S ? nchez 's gorgeously toothsome art and character design , which populates every page with infinite tiny details and critters for the reader to pore over with rapt delight . <p> His art style has a distinctly animated quality , pitched somewhere between Adventure Time 's Gus Allen , and Over The Garden Wall'sPatrick McHale . The result is a series of static images that seethe with movement and life , scaffolded by storytelling that lets their strengths sing . <p> None more so than in the case of Chiri , whose mutism and hearing impairment mark her out as a target for bullies in the real world . In Puddin ' , however , her sign language skills render her adept in the gestures necessary to perform spells -- a choice that is as narratively ingenious as it is unshowily , but masterfully , empowering to deaf readers . It 's just one of many elements that makes Rune a real treasure . <p> The Last Queen by Jean-Marc Rochette <p> At the very outset of The Last Queen by Jean-Marc Rochette ( Self-Made Hero ) , our hero ? douard Roux is a boy living in the French Alps , the child of an unmarried woman designated a witch by local villagers . ? douard earns the latter 's approbation by reacting with horror to the killing of the region 's last living bear -- the last queen of the novel 's title -- a creature he loves and respects for its dignity and strength . <p> Soon , we cut to the older ? douard , now a disfigured veteran , who returns home as a gueule cass ? e ( broken face ) at the end of the first World War . When Jeanne Sauvage , a talented animal sculptor , makes him a new face , ? douard finds a new lease of life , and yearns to return them both to the unspoilt perfection of his alpine home and his connection to its natural wonders . <p> Amid all this , there is barbed commentary on class , greed , art and war , and flashbacks that cover 100,000 years of local history . None of which describes the central draw of this magnificent book , which are its beautiful draughtsmanship , sublime pace and exquisite writing . Best known for authoring Snowpiercer , Rochette delivers here a more subdued and quiet narrative , and it is better for every measured word and silent page . Excellently translated by Edward Gauvin , this is a book of sweeping drama and penetrating insight . It is a deep and humane masterpiece and , like the bear of its title , it lives long in the mind after departure .
