<h> Books on the Famine , the Troubles , the Aran Islands and Gaza , and an account by the daughter of Dominique Pelicot of how she and her mother Gis ? le rebuilt their lives , are also due out <h> Irish nonfiction <p> Memoirs by a famous politician and a much-loved actor are among next year 's most anticipated titles , while the legacy of violence and abuse , both political and domestic , is the subject of a slew of powerful personal stories . <p> Leo Varadkar ( Sandycove , September ) promises a rare behind-the-scenes look at the former taoiseach 's life , both personal and political , and an insight into our recent political history . <p> Academy Award-winning actor Brenda Fricker 's as yet untitled intimate memoir ( Apollo , September ) does n't just recount her glittering career , spanning six decades and more than 30 film and TV credits , including My Left Foot , Home Alone 2 , Casualty and Coronation Street ; she also reveals the traumas that took place behind the scenes , including being abused as a child by an acting coach and a sexual assault by an actor as a young woman . <p> A Time for Truth ( Hachette Books Ireland , February ) by Sarah Corbett Lynch is a raw and powerful account of her family 's gruelling nine-year battle for justice for her father Jason Corbett and Sarah 's own journey of grief and recovery from trauma . <p> Noah Donohoe : The Search for Truth ( Mirror Books , May ) by leading investigative journalist Donal MacIntyre examines the unexplained death of a 14-year-old Catholic schoolboy who went missing in Belfast , only for his body to be found a week later in a storm drain in a loyalist part of the city . <p> Noah Donohoe ( 14 ) , whose body was found in Belfast in June 2020 a week after he went missing . Photograph : Niall Carson/PA Wire <p> Deadly Silence ( Hachette Books Ireland , May ) by Jacqueline Connolly is the heartbreaking account of a sister 's search for the truth behind one man 's evil deeds . Her sister Clodagh was murdered , along with her sons Liam , Niall and Ryan , by husband and father Alan Hawe . <p> Rot : A History of the Irish Famine ( Robinson , March ) by Padraic X Scanlan shows how the staggering inequality , pervasive debt , outrageous rent-gouging , precarious employment , and vulnerability to changes in commodity prices that torment so many in the 21st century were rehearsed in the Irish countryside as a British imperial experiment before the potatoes failed . <p> The history of the Northern conflict is explored in several new titles , including The Sorrow and the Loss : The Tragic Shadow Cast by the Troubles on the Lives of Women ( Merrion , February ) by Martin Dillon . <p> In The Bass Player ( New Island , July ) , Stephen Travers recounts how three members of his showband , the Miami , were murdered by British security forces in collusion with the UVF . He barely survived but in time became a campaigner , international speaker , facilitator of truth and reconciliation and a plaintiff in a historic legal case against the British ministry of defence . <p> 100 years on from the failure of the Boundary Commission , historian Cormac Moore explores in The Root of All Evil : The Irish Boundary Commission ( Irish Academic Press , May ) the factors that led to the abandonment of Northern nationalists close to the border . <p> Ulster Unionists : A People Apart ( Merrion , autumn ) by Alex Kane is a new reassessment of the state of unionism from the author 's birth in 1957 through to today . <p> Troubled Waters ( Merrion , autumn ) by Tommy Greene is an investigative expos ? of the near ecological destruction of Lough Neagh by corporate greed and a failing public system . <p> The Big Fight : When Ali Conquered Ireland ( Merrion , March ) is Dave Hannigan 's retelling of Ali 's fight with Al ' Blue ' Lewis at Croke Park on a balmy July evening in 1972 . <p> In The Last Ditch : How One GAA Summer Gave Me Back My Life ( Hachette Books Ireland , May ) , Eamonn Sweeney sets out to write a sports memoir about the 2024 hurling and football championships and ends up rewriting his life story , addressing a crippling phobia , mental health , family , ageing and a changing Ireland . <p> England and Eternity : A Book of Cricket ( Head of Zeus , October ) by Declan Kiberd is a teasing but affectionate celebration of cricket through the ages , by one of Ireland 's leading critics . <p> Aerdogs ( Eastwood , February ) by Tom Lyons is the story of a small team of Irish trailblazers who made low-cost air travel available to millions of people across Europe , Asia , North America and Latin America . <p> Burn Them Out ! A History of Fascism and the Far Right in Ireland ( Head of Zeus , April ) by P ? draig ? g ? Ruairc reveals the forgotten history of the Irish far right from the 1920s up to the present . <p> Still ( September , New Island ) by Julia Kelly is about the death and life of her mother , who died while swimming in the Gal ? pagos Islands in 2012 . It 's a forensic examination of her postmortem and an attempt to bring her back to life , body part by body part , so that she can finally let her go . <p> The Episode ( Sandycove , May ) by Mary Ann Kenny is a memoir of a woman 's descent into madness and her journey back again . <p> In The Age of Diagnosis ( Sceptre , March ) , Wellcome Prize-winning neurologist Dr Suzanne O'Sullivan investigates the shifting boundaries in medicine and reframes how we think about illness and health . <p> The Black Pool : A Memoir of Forgetting ( Hodder &amp; Stoughton , April ) is author Tim MacGabhann 's raw and powerful memoir of addiction and recovery , across three continents and multiple drugs , from early childhood through adulthood . <p> The follow-on to her debut novel Flight , Oona Frawley 's Deathbeds and Birthdays ( Lilliput , April ) is a memoir about the deaths and births that have shaped her life . <p> Irish Nurses in the NHS : An Oral History ( Four Courts Press , February ) edited by Louise Ryan , Gr ? inne McPolin and Neha Doshi , tells the stories of Irish nurses in their own words , using rich oral history and photographs , from the rigours of training to the fun of dance halls . <p> Gr ? inne Hurley 's ' Gratefully and Affectionately ' : Mary Lavin and The New Yorker ( New Island , April ) recounts the Irish author 's close working relationship with her chief editor , Rachel MacKenzie . During those years , they wrote nearly 400 letters to each other , ranging from story edits to their private lives . <p> Mary Lavin : Gr ? inne Hurley 's ' Gratefully and Affectionately ' : Mary Lavin and The New Yorker is published in April <p> Words for My Comrades : A Political History of Tupac Shakur ( White Rabbit , May ) by Dean Van Nguyen is the first Tupac biography to explore the origins of his personal politics , socialism and iconoclastic significance . <p> To Aran , I ( Lilliput , February ) by Andrew McNeillie tells how a young Welshman fulfilled his dream of living on Inis M ? r , an adventure recorded in his acclaimed first memoir An Aran Keening . <p> Music and Mayhem ( Lilliput , March ) charts the life of one of Ireland 's most important musicians , Keith Donald . <p> Frank O'Connor 's seminal work on the art of the short story , The Lonely Voice ( Lilliput , February ) is back in print with a new introduction by Kevin Barry . <p> The Language of Light ( Lilliput , autumn ) is an authorised selection from artist Sean Scully 's lectures , notebooks and interviews , over 40 years . <p> Mary MacSwiney ( UCD Press , February ) , a biography by Leeann Lane , traces her political evolution from suffrage and cultural revival activism to advanced nationalism . <p> After the Train ( UCD Press , May ) , edited by Evelyn Conlon and Rebecca Pelan , relates the story of Irishwomen United and the networks around it , on the 50th anniversary of its formation , featuring personal memoir , Dublin Rape Crisis Centre , Well Woman Centre , Arlen House and Attic Press . <p> WTF Happened : #WakingTheFeminists and the movement that changed Irish theatre ( UCD Press , May ) , edited by Sarah Durcan and Lian Bell , tells the story of movement that resulted from the Abbey Theatre 's failure to celebrate women 's contribution to Irish theatre in the centenary celebrations . <p> In Do Not Try to Become a Buddha ( Wisdom , February ) , a collection of short essays , Irish Soto Zen priest Myozan Ian Kilroy describes how he came to practice Zen , introduces some basics of Zen philosophy , and recalls the challenges of establishing a Zen Buddhist community in Catholic-dominated Ireland . <h> International nonfiction <p> The Israeli-Palestinian conflict , in particular the deadly onslaught on the people of Gaza , and Russia 's brutal invasion of Ukraine have prompted a spate of significant books . <p> The World After Gaza ( Fern Press , February ) by Pankaj Mishra is inspired by his viral LRB article , The Shoah after Gaza . It is an essential reckoning with the war , its historical conditions and moral and geopolitical ramifications . <p> One day , everyone will have been against this ( Canongate , February ) by Omar El Akkad traces his journey as an immigrant journalist and author in the US who believed the West offered freedom and justice for all . Watching the unmitigated slaughter in Gaza , he concludes that much of what the West promises is a lie . <p> Written as a series of diary extracts , The Eyes of Gaza ( Macmillan , April ) by young Palestinian journalist Plestia Alaqad , depicts daily life in Gaza amid Israel 's brutal invasion and bombardment . <p> A man mourns over shrouded bodies during a funeral at Al-Ahli Arab hospital in Gaza city on December 17th after dozens were killed in Israeli attacks . Photograph : Omar al-Qattaa/AFP/Getty <p> From a pre-1948 Palestinian neighbourhood in Jaffa , razed for a park in what is now Tel Aviv , to the ruins of a Bronze-Age city that has become the nickname for an infamous Israeli checkpoint , Forgotten ( Profile , March ) by Raja Shehadeh and Penny Johnson retraces Palestine 's history through decades of displacement and loss . <p> With a foreword by Margaret Atwood , Looking at Women Looking at War ( William Collins , February ) by Victoria Amelina , a writer turned war crimes researcher , is a posthumous chronicle of how Ukrainian women like the author joined the resistance . She was killed when a Russian missile hit the restaurant where she was hosting visiting international authors . <p> 38 Londres Street : On Impunity , Pinochet in England and a Nazi Patagonia ( W &amp; N , April ) by Philippe Sands uncovers a chilling historical crime that has real world impact today . Named after a torture facility in the heart of Santiago , the book weaves together the arrest of Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998 and his links to Walther Rauff , SS officer , in Chilean Patagonia . <p> Story of a Murder : The Wives , the Mistress and Dr Crippen ( Transworld , March ) by Hallie Rubenhold , author of the acclaimed The Five , The Women Killed by Jack the Ripper , re-examines the case of an infamous wife-murderer in Edwardian England , brought to justice by an extraordinary group of strong women . <p> Is a River Alive ( Penguin , May ) by bestselling nature writer Robert Macfarlane explores the idea that the natural world is far more alive than is often allowed . <p> Why , asks Lamorna Ash in Do n't Forget We 're Here Forever ( Bloomsbury , May ) , are young people in Britain today turning to faith in our age of uncertainty ? <p> Wild Fictions ( John Murray , April ) brings together Amitav Ghosh 's extraordinary writing on the subjects that have obsessed him for 25 years : literature and language ; climate change and the environment ; human lives , travel , and discoveries . <p> Minority Rule : Adventures in the Culture War ( Bloomsbury , February ) is Ash Sarkar 's urgent dissection of the deafening culture of distraction stoked by the ruling minority in the UK , and around the world . <p> The Slow Road North : How I Found Peace in an Improbable Country ( Mariner , February ) by Rosie Schaap -- equal parts memoir and social history -- follows the author , after a series of tragic losses , from New York to Northern Ireland , where she finds a path toward healing . <p> In Equality : What It Means and Why It Matters ( Polity , January ) , Thomas Piketty and Michael Sandel reflect on the value of equality and debate what citizens and governments should do to narrow the gaps that separate us . <p> The trial of Dominique Pelicot has captured the world 's attention . Behind the haunting details of Pelicot 's unthinkable crimes are a mother , Gis ? le , and daughter , Caroline Darian , who were forced to rebuild their lives . I 'll Never Call Him Dad Again : Turning our Family Trauma of Chemical Submission into a Collective Fight ( Leap , January ) by Caroline Darian is their story . <p> Rain of Ruin : Tokyo , Hiroshima and the Surrender of Japan ( Allen Lane , March ) by Richard Overy is a remarkable account of the terrible climax of the second World War in Asia , published to coincide with the 80th anniversary of the Hiroshima bombing . <p> Femonomics ( Hodder &amp; Stoughton , September ) by Corinne Low introduces us to a radical new framework : treating women as economic agents who can maximise their personal " profit " in the same way that a business makes money . <p> Picnic on Craggy Island : The Surreal Joys of Producing Father Ted ( Penguin , February ) by Lissa Evans is a lighthearted , nostalgic memoir by the popular novelist of her years working on the hit sitcom . <p> Patrick Radden Keefe 's The Oligarch 's Son ( Picador , autumn ) explores the fatal plunge into the London underworld by Zac Brettler , who was posing as a Russian oligarch 's son . It builds on the Say Nothing author 's recent reporting for the New Yorker . <p> Road to Findout : The Cat Stevens Story ( Little , Brown , December ) by Yusuf Islam will be an above-average musical memoir if it appears . It 's already ben postponed once and details are still sketchy . <p> Essays on Women ( Penguin , July ) is an anthology of Caitlin Moran 's columns and essays on modern womanhood . <p> America , Am ? rica : A New History of the New World by Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Greg Grandin is the first definitive history of the western hemisphere , a sweeping , five-century narrative of North and South America that redefines our understanding of both . <p> Broadcaster and naturalist David Attenborough shares the story of our last great , critical wilderness in Ocean : How to Save Earth 's Last Wilderness ( John Murray , May ) . <p> Mother Mary Comes to Me ( Hamish Hamilton , September ) is a memoir by Arundhati Roy , whose The God of Small Things won the Booker Prize in 1997 , about her childhood and relationship with her mother . <p> The Leopard in my House : One Man 's Adventures in Cancerland ( Ebury , February ) by comedian and broadcaster Mark Steel is a frank , funny diary of one man 's year getting ill , getting on with it , and getting better .
