<p> As KNEECAP are crowned our ' Phenomenon Of The Year ' -- off the back of their acclaimed feature film , debut album , sold-out shows , and strong stance against injustice and genocide -- we catch up with Mo Chara to talk legal battles , oppressed languages , Palestine , Fontaines D.C. , Glastonbury , and a united Ireland ... <p> In fact , the Belfast trio recently wrapped up their landmark 2024 with one of their most satisfying takedowns of the British establishment to date -- graduating from the DUP-enraging chants , murals and posters of their early career , to a highly publicised legal victory over the UK government . <p> Earlier this year , Kemi Badenoch -- the Tory business secretary at the time , and now Leader of the Opposition -- made headlines after blocking a ? 14,250 grant awarded to KNEECAP under the UK 's Music Exports Growth Scheme . The government had no intention , according to a spokesperson , of funding " people that opposed the United Kingdom itself " . <p> In recent weeks , at a hearing at Belfast High Court , that decision was ruled both " unlawful " and " procedurally unfair " , and KNEECAP were awarded every penny of their grant -- which they subsequently split between two youth groups on either side of the community divide in Belfast , in both Ballymurphy and the Shankill Road . <p> Talking now to KNEECAP 's Mo Chara -- who proves incredibly insightful for a man who only went to bed at 11.30am this morning -- he refers to the victory as " easy money " , but notes that , above all else , the group pursued the case " on principle . " <h> Advertisement <p> " That funding was there for bands touring America , " Mo Chara explains . " And ? 14,000 is very helpful , but it 's not as groundbreaking as you would think -- because touring America is super expensive . So , it was never about the money . As DJ Pr ? va ? said , it could 've been 50 pence . " <p> Punishing the group for opposing the political status quo is especially ridiculous , Mo Chara reckons , given that " the biggest political party up North is Sinn F ? in . " <p> " What we 're saying in our tunes , or what we 're saying against Kemi Badenoch , is actually the status quo here , " Mo Chara resumes . " A united Ireland is n't some underground political belief that people have . " <p> " This stuff happens all the time up here , " he says of Badenoch 's actions . " There 's massive injustices happening , constantly -- it just flies under the radar . People in the North are subjugated to tyranny , basically . And the British government are getting away with murder . It 's only because we were lucky enough to have a bit of backing , with the platform we have , that we could go to a lawyer . Most people do n't have that privilege up here . " <p> For Mo Chara , being able to give half of the funds awarded in the court case to the Gl ? r na M ? na youth organisation in Ballymurphy was special for a personal reason . <h> Advertisement <p> " I was basically raised by that youth club , so I thought it was a nice full circle moment to give a few quid back , " he tells me . " I used to go there everyday after school . When I was 15 , I started volunteering with the primary school kids there , and when I was 16 I got a part-time job there . Then when I was 18 , I was working in that youth club . <p> " Ballymurphy is where I went to school , " he adds . " And it was lovely to see that kids in this area -- who did n't necessarily have the same privileges that other kids would have had -- were able to be bilingual . And lunatics ! Young kids who were nuts , were also bilingual -- and that was normal . " <p> That community , and similar communities across the North and beyond , were given a voice like never before this year , as KNEECAP -- also made up of M ? gla ? Bap and DJ Pr ? va ? -- went global . Rich Peppiatt 's award-winning feature film Kneecap -- inspired by , written with , and starring the group -- proved an instant hit with cinema-goers across multiple continents , following its premiere at Sundance Film Festival . Now tipped to secure a Best International Feature Film nomination at the Oscars , the movie is likely to garner even more attention over the months ahead -- especially now that it 's been added to both Prime Video here , and Netflix in the US . <p> This year also saw KNEECAP unveil their long-awaited debut album , the Toddla T-produced Fine Art -- which scored spots on numerous best-of-the-year lists , clocked up millions of streams , and even earned the praise of Elton John . <p> Between all that , they 've also managed to fit in sold-out headline shows around the world , high-profile festival appearances , and a US TV debut on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon . <p> " People from my area do n't get this opportunity , " Mo Chara reflects . " I 've been reminding myself this constantly . Obviously you can be busy touring , and things can be really hard and stressful -- but I think it 's very important to take a second , and remind yourself how lucky we are to be able to do what we love . Because people struggle . People work on fucking building sites for 12 hours a day . " <h> Advertisement <p> When they first started writing the film with Rich Peppiatt , their main goal was to create something " colloquial , and authentically Belfast , " Mo Chara says . <p> But what they had initially thought of as " a story about the Irish language , " he says , soon became an " international story of native languages being oppressed by colonialism . " <p> " We 've had loads of messages from people of Native American backgrounds , and Aboriginal Australians , " he resumes . " They 're like , ' I never had the opportunity to learn my language -- the language my grandparents spoke . ' And so , out of the film , they 've gone back and started learning more about their own culture . " <p> Has it surprised him to see how enthusiastically young English people have embraced KNEECAP -- alongside other aspects of Irish culture , like Guinness-drinking ... <p> " The whole of London 's fucking splitting the ' G ' ! " Mo Chara laughs . " But yeah -- I feel like Irish republicanism had been such a taboo subject , especially in England . But it 's important that we talk about it . <h> Advertisement <p> " The British government serves nobody , " he continues . " It does n't serve the British people , and it does n't serve the Irish people . People in England are maybe a wee bit more ready to talk about this now . And that 's important , if we 're ever going to have a border poll . " <p> It 's a conversation he feels people all over Ireland should be engaging with . <p> " The people in the South should be fucking screaming for a united Ireland , " he states . " If there was a border poll , we could take the best of both societies , and create a perfect wee fucking island , where you 've free healthcare -- and the bins are paid for ! <p> " But Fianna F ? il , again ? ! " he adds . " Jesus fucking Christ . It 's time for an alternative , guys . It 's not that fucking taboo . The Tory government and the Labour government have done nothing for the North , and Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael have done nothing for the South . Let 's try something different . " <p> For years now , KNEECAP have also been outspoken in their support of Palestine , organising solidarity events and fundraisers with the likes of Irish Artists For Palestine and ACLA ? Palestine . More recently , they took part in Paul Weller 's all-star Gig For Gaza over at the O2 Academy Brixton in London . For Mo Chara , it 's been encouraging to see that English people are " finally coming to a place where they can speak out loud about the fact that the government is doing nothing . " <p> " Or actually , the opposite of nothing , " he corrects himself . " The government is funding a genocide . " <h> Advertisement <p> Kneecap premiere at The Lighthouse Cinema . Copyright Miguel Ruiz . <p> " The Zionists are religious fanatics , " he says . " Lets not muddy the waters here -- they 're religious fanatics who have gotten away with literal murder , for a long , long time . And they 're clearly not listening to international fucking law . <p> " Ian Lynch from Lankum said something that really fucking spoke to me , " he adds . " Something along the lines of , ' We do n't want to be 80 years of age , and have our grandkids ask : Why the fuck did nobody do anything about this back then ? ' " <p> The way Mo Chara sees it , " none of us can be perfect -- but we can all do our bit , whatever our bit is . " <p> " I do n't think it 's surprising at all that Irish artists have spearheaded this , " he says of Palestine solidarity in Ireland . " Irish artists , and Irish people in general , have usually been on the right side of history . Obviously you get Irish-Americans who become very right-wing and conservative -- but in general , the Irish have been very understanding of people 's plight . <p> " In a lot of countries around the world , they 're very patriotic about where they 're from -- but it can become quite conservative , " he continues . " But to be patriotic in Ireland is to be understanding of other people 's struggles . The reason I 'm proud to be Irish is because of how we have treated oppressed people around the world , for years . Because it was n't that long ago that we were on the other side of it . " <p> Over the past few months , plenty of famous faces , from Ed Sheeran to Noel Gallager , have been spotted at KNEECAP gigs -- but Mo Chara is n't getting too caught up in celebrity idolisation . <h> Advertisement <p> " People have been sound , and it 's good craic , " he acknowledges . " It 's exciting , for somebody from West Belfast , to be meeting these people . But it worries me that people with notoriety or celebrity are not making a point to talk about Gaza . These people have enough money , and are so well established that , if they make a statement , they 're not going to lose their record deal , or lose money . <p> " This is bigger than your fucking music , mate , " he adds . " There 's a fucking genocide happening . It 's important that people with any kind of platform speak about it . But people are n't , and that 's fucking terrifying . " <p> There are , of course , plenty of acts that have inspired KNEECAP , through both their output and their advocacy , this year . When it comes to the music that defined Mo Chara 's 2024 , he has one word : " Fontaines . " <p> " ' Starburster ' is one of the best tunes I 've ever heard , " he says of the Irish band 's Romance track . " That is incredible . And then I see Grian doing an interview , and he 's talking about us . And then Elton John on his fucking podcast ... What the fuck has happened this year ? ! " <p> Kneecap at Vicar Street . Copyright Jason Doherty . <p> The pace of KNEECAP 's 2024 , Mo Chara admits , has n't left much time for reflection . But out of the countless ' pinch-me ' moments , Glastonbury was a stand-out , he says . <h> Advertisement <p> " Even if you do n't have any kind of background in music or whatever , Glastonbury is just so iconic , " he reflects . " Even the name . So to be on the billing alone was crazy , but to be playing at 11.30 in the morning , and having a full crowd -- and bear in mind that everything 's a two-hour walk away -- that was just mind-blowing . <p> " The Irish have always had great music , " he adds . " It just has n't always been given the space it deserves . So I felt like we were standing on the shoulders of giants there . " <p> 2025 will likely see the KNEECAP phenomenon only continue to grow -- with a headline tour of Australia , their biggest live show to date in Dublin 's Fairview Park , and a performance at Coachella already confirmed . <p> " People ask us all the time , ' What 's next ? ' " Mo Chara reflects . " But I do n't know , to be honest . I want to take as much free time as I can next year . I want to go and travel around the place . " <p> What about a return to his roots -- as a former , and still fully-qualified , beekeeper ? ( Yes , really . ) <p> " I 'm going to go back to my beekeeping career as soon as my hair goes grey , " he decides . " When that happens , I 'm getting a beehive -- but until then , I 'm on the move ... " <p> Fine Art is out now , and the Kneecap film is available to watch on Prime Video . KNEECAP play Fairview Park , Dublin ( June 19 , 2025 ) . See their full list of upcoming dates at kneecap.ie
