<h> 2024 has seen women and girls in Gaza face unprecedented attacks on their rights <p> Riham Jafari , advocacy and communications coordinator at ActionAid Palestine , writes about the harrowing experiences faced by women and girls and Gaza in 2024 , and why the world needs to act to protect their rights in 2025 <p> by : Riham Jafari <p> 31 Dec 2024 <p> Shurooq , a 31-year-old displaced mother , who was forced to flee from the north of Gaza at the start of the war and is currently sheltering in a school with her family . Image : Wattan Media Network/ActionAid <p> Share <p> It is almost impossible to summarise or convey in words the unimaginable hardship that has been inflicted on women and girls in Gaza over the last 12 months . Gaza has become the most dangerous place for women in the world , a place where they face the daily threat of death and starvation , oppression and the denial of their basic human rights . Each day brings a renewed struggle for survival , with women unable to access water , food , sanitation items , warm clothes and medicine . They are losing their lives ; they are sick , hungry and exhausted . <p> The war in Gaza is a war on women and girls . In 2024 , the Israeli military 's offensive has continued to kill women and girls at a horrifying rate : according to the UN , women and children make up nearly 70% of those killed , and 75% of those injured . These women are not numbers : they have children , families , dreams and friends . <p> Many of those who have survived experience unbearable suffering caused by the loss of their children , husbands , relatives and neighbours . Thousands of women who have become widows now face the sole responsibility of caring for their children and running their households . Yet despite their loss , Palestinian women are the backbone of their communities and continue to show incredible strength as they fight for survival . <p> One of the most painful things for women in Gaza to endure is the repeated displacement which has turned their lives into hell . With nine out of ten people in Gaza displaced , most women and girls now find themselves living in tents or makeshift shelters constructed from curtains , sheets or any fabric they can find , which offer little to no protection from the winter cold or rain . <p> Successive evacuation orders -- which currently cover around 79% of Gaza -- have forced them into ever smaller areas of land where the overcrowding is unbearable , and infrastructure can not cope : in some places , the collapse of the sanitation system means that raw sewage is flowing between the tents . With nowhere safe from the bombing , women are exhausted and terrified . <p> Women and girls have no privacy and , at the same time , face increased risk of harassment , abuse and violence , which -- as is always the case in times of crisis -- is rising . Trying to manage their periods when they have no period products , no soap , limited or no water , and using the toilet or shower can involve hours of queueing , has become a monthly struggle . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The lack of water has left some women unable to shower for weeks , while many have resorted to cutting their hair as it is so difficult to keep it clean -- just one of the painful tactics to cope with the harsh conditions that women are having to employ . Keeping themselves and their living spaces clean is impossible and contagious skin diseases and pneumonia are spreading rapidly . <p> Gaza 's growing hunger crisis has reached a critical point . With the food system all but destroyed , everyone in Gaza relies on aid to survive , yet the amount of humanitarian relief entering the territory has plummeted : in October just 37 trucks went into Gaza on average per day , the lowest level yet in 2024 . <p> This has resulted in an alarming shortage of food , with the situation most dire in the besieged north , where virtually no aid has entered since early October and bakeries and kitchens have been forced to close . In a rare and concerning move , the Famine Review Committee has issued an alert warning that starvation and malnutrition were ' rapidly increasing ' in the north and said the threshold for famine may have already been crossed . Everywhere too in Gaza , the food supply was sharply deteriorating , according to the alert . <p> For pregnant women , the lack of food can have tragic consequences : doctors at our partner hospital in northern Gaza , Al-Awda , have reported a rise in miscarriages as a result of malnutrition and stress among women . New mothers have told ActionAid that they are unable to breastfeed their babies because they are so malnourished and thirsty . Women have resorted to using animal feed as flour and cooking dried leaves from the ground just to have something to feed their children ; most eat last and least as they prioritise their families ' needs . <p> The near collapse of Gaza 's healthcare system has particularly impacted pregnant women in Gaza , 180 of whom are estimated to give birth each day . Shortages of medical supplies have left women having to undergo caesareans without anaesthetic and vital medicines . Many women have been forced to give birth in filthy shelters or tents because the intensity of the bombing meant it was too dangerous for them to travel to hospital . Amid dire fuel shortages , doctors have had to make heartbreaking decisions about which sick newborn babies to prioritise for the few incubators they are able to keep running . <p> In every possible way , women and girls are Gaza are facing an assault on their rights and their basic human dignity . And as 2025 approaches , the picture is worrying . Most alarming is the prospect of the Israeli government 's ban on UNRWA -- the largest provider of humanitarian aid and services in Gaza -- coming into force in January . The extent to which this would prove to be an absolute catastrophe for Gaza 's starving and beleaguered population is impossible to overstate : it would be a death sentence . <p> Even if a ceasefire were secured today , rebuilding Gaza will take years . More than two thirds of buildings have been destroyed or damaged , including almost 90% of schools , and entire neighbourhoods razed to the ground . Recovering from the physical and mental scars inflicted by this crisis will take even longer : more than 22,500 people have suffered life changing injuries , and many more have experienced the heartbreak and trauma of losing at least one loved one . How will women be able to return to their daily lives and routines , when their homes are destroyed and their loved ones killed ? <p> Yet one thing is certain : in 2025 , just as in 2024 and all the years beforehand , Palestinian women and girls will continue to resist the attacks on their fundamental rights and freedoms and continue demanding justice and accountability . <p> If there is any hope at all to be found in the appalling events of the past year , it is the incredible strength and resilience shown by so many women -- from the mothers who have taken in orphans to raise as their own to the medical workers and humanitarians risking their own lives daily to support their people . <p> I continue to feel awed by the incredible work my colleagues at ActionAid and our partners in Gaza are doing in the most appalling circumstances , from running a hotline and safe spaces for women who have experienced violence , to distributing vital essentials like food and period products . <p> But they need your solidarity and support . In 2025 , people around the world must keep demanding that their leaders fight for a permanent ceasefire now . In the UK , the government can and must do more to try and put a stop to this war -- that includes halting all arms export licenses to the Israeli government and imposing sanctions . 2025 must be the year this crisis ends , so that the long journey to recovery , justice and accountability can begin .
