<p> A battered Ukraine facing another harsh winter in its fight against Russia , the continued bombardment of Gaza by Israel without any sign of a political solution , a forgotten civil war in Sudan , and the uncertainty that now follows the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria . <p> Former prime minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas has taken over as the EU 's foreign affairs chief at a time when -- in her own words -- the world is " on fire " . <p> Kallas ( 47 ) is known as a hawk on Russia . From the very beginning of the Ukraine war she was pushing for the EU to do more to help Kiev defeat Russian president Vladimir Putin 's invading force . <p> When the leaders of the 27 EU states met during summits in Brussels , Kallas was a loud voice in the room as the debate turned to the Ukraine war . Then leading a Baltic country of only 1.3 million people that shares a border with Russia , she sought to make sure other European leaders did not underestimate the wider threat Putin posed , particularly if he was allowed to succeed in Ukraine . <p> A liberal politician , she was prime minister of Estonia from 2021 until mid 2024 , when she was tapped to take over as the EU 's top political representative on foreign affairs at the end of this year . <p> Senior figures who have worked with Kallas at EU level describe her as a very capable politician , who is easy to get on with personally . Her contributions during EU summits were pointed and clear , especially on Ukraine , according to one former leader who dealt with Kallas in recent years . She brought a bit more realism to the debates during the closed door meetings , the former leader said . <p> " To be that close to Russia your mind is probably more focused , " they said of her . <p> A staunch Atlanticist , Kallas had previously signalled her interest in heading up the Nato western military alliance , a job which former Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte later secured . Her mindset on defence is that EU states need to spend more and work closer together , so that Europe can defend itself from threats like Russia , with or without help from elsewhere . <p> The new foreign affairs chief will likely be less passionately focused on Palestine than her predecessor , Josep Borrell , the 77-year-old Spanish socialist . Borrell was known for speaking his mind , particularly when it came to condemning Israel 's actions during its war in Gaza . The Spanish politician often found himself at odds with European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen , who will probably have a much better relationship with Kallas . <p> The former Estonian leader is thought to be closer to the middle of the road position of many northern and central European states on the war in Gaza . She is not in the camp pushing for the EU to hold Israel to account , which includes Spain , Ireland and Belgium , or those seen as Israel 's fiercest defenders , like Germany , Hungary , Austria , and Czechia . <p> Kallas is said to view the world through the prism of the threat posed by Russia , China and Iran . Commenting on the collapse of the Assad regime in Syria , she remarked how it pointed to the waning power of Russia and Iran , who previously had propped up the autocratic Syrian ruler . <p> How well she gets across the details of her brief in the Middle East and Africa , where she is more of an unknown quantity , will be watched closely . <p> As EU foreign policy needs to be decided by unanimity , her role will also be defined by how adept she is at convincing serial objectors like Hungary to stop blocking decisions . The far right government of Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban is holding up the release of ? 6.6 billion in funds from the EU to Ukraine and refusing to budge . <p> Both Hungary and Slovakia recently vetoed a plan to sanction officials in the Georgian government , over a crackdown on protests there and attempt to shift the country closer to Russia . <p> " It 's my first Hungarian veto but I can guarantee it 's not the last , " Kallas joked afterwards . <p> When it comes to the Ukraine war , most EU states are supportive of Kyiv . However , this unity may fray as the debate turns to a possible settlement of the conflict in the future . Kallas is clear on her position , stating recently : " We must give Ukraine what it needs to win this war " . <p> Diplomats and officials have picked up a desire from Kallas to make decisions quicker , so the EU is not seen as a laggard that only agrees on what to do long after the moment has passed . <p> That change of pace was clear when she chaired her first meeting of EU foreign affairs ministers , where policy is trashed out . When Borrell ran the meetings they could start late , run over time , and end inconclusively . At her first meeting in December Kallas had a different style of doing things , according to one source in the room . <p> " She seems to be running a tighter ship " , they said . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
