<h> Dancer Amir Sabra arrived in Ireland from a Palestinian refugee camp in Nablus in 2021 <p> It 's a stark contrast . Born in a Palestinian refugee camp in Nablus on the West Bank ( " if you can imagine , two kilometres-square , 20,000 people living in there " ) and now living in Tubbercurry , Co Sligo , surrounded by fields and nature . <p> Amir Sabra says " there 's so much to understand and appreciate when you live with such space and nature . To walk , not to see blocks and cement , to see lovely green fields and sheep everywhere you turn your eyes . It 's a different experience . You could feel healthy , even just walking the streets . " <p> Sabra does n't miss cities , as he mostly works away : in Dublin , Brussels , sometimes Palestine . " I 'm not isolated . " The dancer and choreographer has lived in Ireland for three years , building his career since a master 's in dance and performance at University of Limerick ( UL ) . He 's performing his solo Within This Party , inspired by dabke ( Palestinian traditional dance ) and hip-hop as part of First Fortnight mental health art and culture festival . Challenging mental health stigma through storytelling and connectivity , First Fortnight will host more than 65 events ( theatre , music , poetry , visual art , discussion and more ) across Ireland in January ( 4th to 18th ) . <p> Sabra 's grandfather came from Lod ( now part of Israel ) but in 1940 was moved to a West Bank refugee camp . Sabra and his father were born in Askar refugee camp . His parents ' marriage was arranged and they did n't meet until the wedding . <p> " I did dancing all my life , really . " Everyone did dabke at weeklong wedding parties on the street in Askar . " Everybody lived very close to each other " so weddings were " like an open concert " . <p> Samer Samahneh came to Askar from Jordan and mixed hip-hop with dabke . " We started to copy him . Samahneh started Hawayhe " ( meaning identity ) , a hip-hop/breakdance/dabke group , which Sabra joined aged 15 , practising after school in the street or the camp 's arts and cultural centre . They learned from YouTube , taught each other moves , did shows and weddings . Around 2010-2011 , after the second Intifada , international dancers taught on cultural exchange projects , and Hawayhe visited Denmark . " We were just dancing around , just enjoying . We were little children . " <p> In 2015 , high-profile Belgian les ballets C de la B auditioned locally , choosing 10 Palestinian dancers to perform Badke , a contemporary dance-theatre show drawing on dabke . Sabra toured the world with the show for two years . It was a career milestone , and a huge leap . " We started really big . Normally , to get to that level as a professional dancer , it takes years and years . " <p> At home in between he studied media and communications at college , then got a job " but my heart was not there . I wanted to do dance " . He cofounded Palestinian breakdance group Stereo48 . Ironically , Covid was " a peaceful year for Palestinians , because there was no invasions from the Israelis to the West Bank . Everyone stayed at home . It was very calm politically " . " People had more interest in culture and arts . They wanted something to make them feel more . Cultural organisations in Palestine had to cancel international guests , and give the money to local guests . " <p> He 'd always wanted to study dance . Salma Ataya , a friend from les ballets C de la B living in Ireland , told him about UL 's dance programme , and grant-aid . Thus he fetched up in Limerick in 2021 . <p> Knowing little about Ireland beyond a large Bobby Sands image in Palestine , " we always heard the Irish had the same struggle as the Palestinians . They stand with us because they had the same experience as Palestinians . " <p> The master 's had contemporary and ballet classes , but also " a lot of space for conceptual work , and individual creative practice , experimentation . It was brilliant . " It was well connected with the Irish dance scene , making it easier to work afterwards . He 's worked with several Irish dance companies and also creates his own pieces . He has more opportunities , and making a living from dance is " hard , but possible , in Ireland . I could n't really be a professional dancer in Palestine " , He continues to work in Palestine , mostly voluntarily " for the passion " , organising summer dance schools for Palestinian dancers . <p> Of his own dance style , while the form and movement are contemporary , " the energy comes really from hip-hop and dabke " He uses Palestinian traditional music , and in a performance Luail , Ireland 's new national dance company , commissioned him to create for its launch , he worked with Irish band K ? la . <p> He 's in Tubbercurry because of his girlfriend . They met at UL ; she 's a traditional Irish dancer and works here and at her Irish dance school in The Hague . Irish traditional dance may have " somehow " seeped into his own dance practice . " Irish dance and Palestinian dance , they are both step dance.But they are very different in rhythms and sound . The Irish dance is very quick and jump , and our dance is slower pace , and then you step to the floor . You do n't leave the floor in your step . It opened my eyes to a new way of how could you use that step differently . " <p> Sabra 's family still live in Nablus in the West Bank , and they talk daily . He 's been back a few times . While it 's not like Gaza or Lebanon , Israel has bombed the West Bank recently . Daily life continues , but " no one is safe . At any moment , things happen . We grew up in that situation . " <p> Nablus is surrounded by Israeli settlers , he says . " It 's a military occupation , with an Israeli army protecting the settlers . They attack every day the villages . There is more taking from the farmers nowadays , because the focus is in Gaza so they can do more in the West Bank . " <p> He worries for his mother and siblings ( their father died ) . His two sisters are married . His two brothers work as journalists , and being targeted has become so normalised that they rarely mention it , he says . He misses home ; " you grow up there , you have memories " . <p> Back home , we live in a situation . But we are not tricked . We know we 're not free . I feel here , you think you 're free , but you 're not . Freedom , as long as it is given , it 's not freedom <p> At the same time , Sabra is aware " a lot of oppression in the world that is hidden . Even in Ireland , you can see there is people oppressed , but it 's hidden . There , oppression is very clear , in front of you . " <p> More mundanely , " I find Irish humour very similar to the Palestinian . I can get along with Irish people easily . There is a deeper understanding " of things that ca n't be explained logically , but " sometimes the Irish , they get it on an experience level . I do n't have to give so much information . " People are similarly family-oriented , with respect for older people . " <p> He 's currently on a graduate visa here , and would like " to be able to do what I want , to go , to stay " , but to be either here or in Palestine requires documents . <p> Sabra muses on the nature of freedom , how people perceive it differently in both cultures . Whereas people here feel free to do something , " in our culture , you feel freedom if you have freedom from something . We have internal freedom . We grew up with an idea , you can control my freedom to do things , but you can not control my freedom to think . " His experience in the West is people think they 're free until they clash with power . " Back home , we live in a situation . But we are not tricked . We know we 're not free . I feel here , you think you 're free , but you 're not . Freedom , as long as it is given , it 's not freedom . " <p> His Irish experience is " very , very positive . I was embraced very nicely by the art and dance scene . People accepted me as an artist for who I am . " In Tubbercurry " everyone in the street is very nice . My girlfriend and her family are very welcoming . I get enough attention . I get enough care . The Irish people are my favourite people . " After the Palestinians , presumably . " Oh , the Palestinians are a big hassle ! " Sabra says with a laugh . " Experiencing extraordinary situations creates extraordinary personalities ! "
