<h> After a year of two lost referendums , a taoiseach 's resignation and huge losses for government partners the Greens , Fianna F ? il and Fine Gael are returning to power <p> Taoiseach Simon Harris and T ? naiste Miche ? l Martin . Despite Sinn F ? in looking like a government in waiting at the start of 2024 , the Fine Gael and Fianna Fail leaders are preparing to return to government in the new year . Photograph : Alan Betson <p> They all came at a time when the economy continued to thrive , with no sign of windfall profits from corporation tax abating . Moreover , the State was told it had to accept ? 13 billion in Apple tax money . <p> The international context was volatile and fraught . Israel continued its bloody onslaught of besieged Gaza . The Russian-Ukraine war continued into a third calendar year . These events had spillover effects in Ireland : indirectly because they contributed to the number of people seeking refuge here ; and directly because of the State 's increasing profile internationally as a critic of Israel 's bombardment of Gaza . <p> Politically , at the start of 2024 , Sinn F ? in looked like a government in waiting . In The Irish Times Ipsos B&amp;A poll in September 2023 , the party 's support level was 34 per cent , significantly ahead of Fianna F ? il ( 20 per cent ) and Fine Gael ( 18 per cent ) . If any party looked in trouble , it was Fine Gael . Half of its TDs -- some of them still young -- had indicated they would retire at the election . Leo Varadkar was trailing other leaders in the popularity stakes . For its part , Fianna F ? il was stuck in a holding pattern of support in the high teens . <p> September 2023 was the peak of Sinn F ? in 's popularity . By February it was down six points to 28 per cent and , by May 2024 , it was at 23 per cent , a drop of 11 points in eight months . <p> The fall in support coincided with increasing protests over immigration . The Government parties hardened rhetoric on asylum seekers . So too did Sinn F ? in . <p> One other big event also had significant political implications . The family and care referendums -- designed to update the Constitutional protection for mothers in the home -- were supported by the D ? il parties , with the exception of Aont ? . They were both overwhelmingly defeated in early March , partly over uncertainty on definitions of what a " durable relationship " meant and what obligations to carers were placed on the State by the phrase " strive to support " . <p> Taoiseach Leo Varadkar responded by saying the electorate had given the Government " two wallops " . Later that month , he travelled to the US for the annual " shamrock bowl " ceremony . <p> Within days of returning home , Varadkar announcedthat he was resigning . It was unexpected and took everybody by surprise . He told Fine Gael colleagues . " In the absence of anyone trying to stab me in the back , I have decided to fall on my own sword . " <p> Taoiseach Leo Varadkar on the steps of Government Buildings on March 20th <p> People pointed to the referendum defeats as the trigger , but Varadkar said it was wider than that . The party was struggling in the polls , was about to lose half its parliamentary party to retirement , and needed a new jolt of energy in advance of the local and European elections . <p> The source of that new energy became known within 24 hours . By 6pm the following day , Simon Harris had secured the backing of 35 of the 54-strong parliamentary party and was on his way to becoming Taoiseach . <p> He spoke about returning to core principles . It involved a tougher message on immigration and rowing back on hate legislation , which was facing headwinds from colleagues and from the public . <p> Fianna F ? il ( with 248 seats ) and Fine Gael ( with 245 ) both lost seats in the local elections and Sinn F ? in made gains . Yet , it was received as a big loss for Sinn F ? in . It had had a terrible local election in 2019 so its 21 seat gain in 2024 ( to 102 ) was seen as modest indeed . For the first time , avowedly right-wing candidates won seats , with six councillors elected in the Greater Dublin Area . <p> In the European elections , Fianna F ? il made two gains , Labour made a morale-boosting breakthrough in Dublin with Aodhan ? Riord ? in , and Sinn F ? in ( despite the negative vibes ) actually gained a seat . The big losers were the Greens and the two maverick Independent MEPs , Clare Daly and Mick Wallace . Fianna F ? il 's Barry Andrews had the most cutting line of the campaign when he told Clare Daly in a TV debate : " You should think more about Crumlin and not the Kremlin . " <p> By this stage , Michael McGrath had been appointed European Commissioner and Jack Chambers succeeded him as Minister for Finance , and now had the status as his party 's " dauphin " . <p> On June 18th , Eamon Ryan stood down as Green leader insisting it had not been driven by the " bittersweet " results in the local and European elections . Roderic O'Gorman replaced himin early July after narrowly defeating Senator Pippa Hackett . <p> The summer economic statement gave an indication of what was to come in the Budget . Finances remained buoyant , thanks to the continuing bumper income from corporation tax . Paschal Donohoe and Chambers said the budgetary tax package would be worth ? 1.4 billion and extra spending of ? 6.9 billion . It would bring State spending in 2025 over ? 100 billion for the first time . <p> In September , Sinn F ? in seemed to be recovering . But late that month , it ordered two press officers to resign when it became known they provided reference to a former colleague , Michael McMonagle , who was convicted of sex offences . The party was thrown into crisis . It was compounded during October when the party had to admit -- almost a year after the fact -- that Senator Niall ? Donnghaile had resigned his position because he sent inappropriate messages to a 16-year-old boy . <p> Then , Laois TD Brian Stanley dramatically resigned from the party accusing it of a witch hunt . It emerged that a draft report from an internal party inquiry had concluded that his actions in an incident involving a woman complainant amounted to " gross misconduct " and " sexual harassment " . <p> The line of Harris , Martin and O'Gorman that the Government would serve its full term seemed increasingly thin . In early November , the Taoiseach announced the date of the election as November 29 , allowing a three-week campaign . <p> One into election mode , the mindset of politicians and the electorate changed . Immigration had receded as an issue . The multiplicity of problems facing Sinn F ? in in the run-up hardly featured . The campaign itself was low-octane with no big developments or surges . <p> Most parties made big spending promises on childcare , law and order , carers ' means testing , health and housing . The biggest debates centred on housing , healthcare , and the trustworthiness of parties as leaders of government . <p> In the end the result reflected the standing of the parties throughout 2024 . Fianna F ? il won marginally more votes but got a seat bonus , because of better vote management and its selection of ( well-known ) incumbents and candidates . Both Sinn F ? in and Fine Gael recovered some support in the last days of the campaign . The Social Democrats were the trending party , picking up transfers across the board . They and the Labour Party made good seat gains , based on small percentage increases . For the Greens , it was a different story . The party lost almost half its support in the elections . It turned out to be almost the catastrophe of 2011 when it lost all its seats . Its failure to attract transfers saw it lose 11 of its 12 seats . <p> With 48 seats , Fianna F ? il had the whip hand . Combined with Fine Gael 's 38 seats , it was only two votes short of a majority . That was reduced to one with the election of Verona Murphy as Ceann Comhairle . Heading into the new year , the most likely shape of government is a group of centrist independents joining the two Civil War parties . <p> Sign up for push alerts and have the best news , analysis and comment delivered directly to your phone
