<h> Unstable new world order has frightening echoes of 1930s and 1940s <h> Trump 's re-election fuels global turmoil in which Putin is the biggest of many autocrats blending kleptocracy and dictatorship . US institutions and international treaties are fading , and Ukraine and Palestine have been betrayed <p> Russian wooden dolls depicting Vladimir Putin , Donald Trump and China 's Xi Jinping : Trump seems to regard the wars in Ukraine and Gaza as pesky distractions to be quickly dispensed with so he can concentrate on China and immigration . Photograph : EPA <p> Standing on the steps of the ? lys ? e Palace on December 7th , Donald Trump made a for-once accurate observation : " It certainly seems like the world is going a little crazy right now , " the US president-elect said . Anyone who followed the news in 2024 would agree . <p> Trump 's election to a second term was part and parcel of the global turmoil . " The election of Donald Trump and the uncertainty he maintains regarding his diplomatic intentions , like his very personal practice of strategic ambiguity , act as a catalyst on the most serious crises of the moment , " Sylvie Kauffmann wrote in Le Monde . <p> Russian and Ukrainian forces are struggling to seize territory before Trump takes office . Russia conducts a " human safari " , picking off civilians in the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson with FPV drones , and continues its advance in Donbas . North Korean troops joined combat in the Kursk province of Russia , which Ukraine had invaded . Joe Biden authorised Ukraine to use US-made Atacms missiles against targets inside Russia . Vladimir Putin retaliated by launching an Intermediate Range Ballistic Missile with multiple re-entry warheads against the Ukrainian city of Dnipro . The Oreshnik ( " Hazelnut " ) missile is designed to carry nuclear warheads ; Putin 's message was clear . Ukrainian intelligence then assassinated the Russian general responsible for nuclear , biological and chemical warfare in a Moscow street . <p> The world seemed to have lost all sense of morality and justice . By December , Israel had killed more than 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza , the majority of them civilians , in response to the October 7th , 2023 , Hamas attacks which claimed 1,200 Israeli lives . The US made itself complicit in the slaughter by continuing arms deliveries to Israel . <p> Liberal democrats were ill-equipped to deal with Islamic extremism and mass immigration , phenomena which pushed western electorates to the political right <p> " In 37 years in the intelligence profession , I have never seen the world in a more dangerous state , " Richard Moore , the head of MI6 , said on November 29th . That was nine days before conflagrations in Ukraine , Palestine and Lebanon resulted in the unforeseen overthrow of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad , because Assad 's Russian allies were otherwise engaged and the Lebanese Hizbullah , who had served as Assad 's Praetorian Guard , were decimated by Israel . Iran lost its land corridor to Syria and Lebanon , a serious blow to the mullahs . Israel and Turkey , which backed the victorious Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , looked like the new masters of the Middle East . <p> Back in the 1990s , the world 's future looked promising . Liberal democracy appeared to have triumphed . It was , the US academic Francis Fukuyama wrote , " the end of history " . <p> Globalisation benefited world elites but further impoverished the disadvantaged . Some felt alienated by progressive social policies such as marriage equality and LGBTQ rights . Liberal democrats were ill-equipped to deal with Islamic extremism and mass immigration , phenomena which pushed western electorates to the political right . A combination of economic and cultural backlash and reliance on social media fuelled the rise of nationalist populist authoritarian leaders . <p> Trump seems to regard the wars in Ukraine and Gaza as pesky distractions to be quickly dispensed with so he can concentrate on China and immigration . On December 16th , he reiterated that Volodymyr Zelenskiy " should be prepared to make a deal , that 's all " . Trump is unlikely to grant Ukraine the security guarantees it needs . He opposes a two-state solution for Palestine and has promised " hell " in Gaza if 100 remaining Israeli hostages are not freed by the time he takes office . He may allow the Israeli far right to drive Palestinians out of the West Bank and Gaza , killing all hope of Palestinian statehood . <p> Trump is part of a seemingly unstoppable wave of far-right populist nationalists , autocrats and dictators which has stretched from Asia to Latin America . <p> Within the EU and Nato , Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban , seconded by his Slovakian colleague Robert Fico , impedes attempts to help Ukraine and confront Russia . In France , Marine Le Pen may succeed the embattled President Emmanuel Macron . The far-right politicians have often shown sympathy for Putin and were heartened by Trump 's victory . <p> After 24 years in power , Putin is the granddaddy of the autocrats , and the leading agent of chaos . " Russia plays a special role in the autocratic network , both as the inventor of the modern marriage of kleptocracy and dictatorship and as the country now most aggressively seeking to upend the status quo , " Anne Applebaum writes in Autocracy , Inc . <p> Trump boasted that ' in the first term , everyone was fighting me . In this term , everyone wants to be my friend ' <p> Putin recently meddled in elections in Georgia , Moldova and Romania , in line with his determination to re-establish the Soviet sphere of influence . " This is not about Ukraine at all , but the world order , " Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said shortly after Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine . Russia is also stepping up " hybrid " attacks on its western adversaries , for example cutting undersea cables and shipping incendiary devices to the UK and Germany via DHL . <p> The new instability has unhappy echoes of the 1930s and 1940s . Putin is rehabilitating Stalin , and German parliamentarians have sought to ban the far-right Alternativ f ? r Deutschland because they see in it a resemblance to the Nazis . During his presidential campaign , Trump denied allegations by several past close associates that he praised Hitler and Hitler 's generals . <p> Trump is not the first to proclaim " America First " . The America First Committee was an anti-Semitic , isolationist movement which in 1940/1941 opposed military aid to the UK and said Nazi Germany was not a threat to the US . Its most prominent orator was the aviator Charles Lindburgh . <p> In 2017 , millions joined marches around the world to protest at Trump 's inauguration . Women wore pink " pussyhats " -- an allusion to Trump 's assertion in the Access Hollywood tape that " You have to grab them by the pussy . " <p> At a press conference at Mar-a-Lago on December 16th , Trump boasted that " in the first term , everyone was fighting me . In this term , everyone wants to be my friend . " Foreign leaders , tech barons and media moguls are trooping to pay obeisance to the president-elect . In our post-truth era , no one any longer seems shocked by " alternative facts " , the evisceration of US institutions and international treaties , the betrayal of Ukraine and the Palestinians . The will to fight seems to have gone out of the body politic.
