<h> One of the casualties of 12 months of war in the Middle East was the rule of international law <h> In the space of a single year , the Islamic Republic of Iran effectively lost three of the key elements in its so-called axis of resistance <p> A gunman stands on the roof of a building at the Najha military housing complex in southeast Damascus on December 17th , 2024 . Photograph : Aris Messinis/AFP/Getty <p> Vincent Durac <p> Mon Dec 30 2024 - 07:00 <p> The past 12 months have witnessed a transformation of the Middle East to an extent not seen since the eruption of the Arab uprisings 14 years ago . Across the region , as conflict has raged in Gaza and Lebanon , old certainties have been shattered while the future remains , as ever , unclear . For the most obvious reasons , global attention has focused on Palestine , where at least 45,000 people have lost their lives in an Israeli onslaught on a scale that no one could have anticipated , following the Hamas-led attacks of October 7th , 2023 . <p> In addition to the human cost , Gaza has been devastated to the extent that senior UN officials were describing it as " uninhabitable " as early as January of this year . Sixty-six per cent of Gaza 's buildings are either damaged or destroyed and 90 per cent of its population are internally displaced . Despite all of this , there is no clear end to the conflict in sight . To the contrary , there are clear indications that the IsraelDefense Forces are intent on indefinite occupation of parts of northern Gaza , paving the way , many fear , for annexation and resettlement . Hamas , on the other hand , continues to insist on a permanent end to the war and a full Israeli withdrawal from Gaza as central to any cessation of hostilities . <p> The conflict in Gaza has had hugely significant ramifications for the region . In particular , the last year has seen the isolation of Iran and its weakening as a regional power . The dismantling by Israel of Hamas in Gaza was followed by an extraordinary set of attacks on Hizbullah in Lebanon , both of which fed into the fall of the Assad regime in Syria earlier this month . In the space of a single year , the Islamic Republic effectively lost three of the key elements in its so-called axis of resistance . <p> Iran itself has been subjected to direct attacks by Israel , to which , despite some sabre-rattling , there has been no meaningful response to date . Earlier this year , the election of a new president in Iran appeared for a brief moment to signal the possibility of some rapprochement with the West . In August , following the surprise success of Masoud Pezeshkian in presidential elections , Iran 's Supreme Leader , Ali Khamenei , somewhat cryptically proposed that engaging with the enemy might under certain circumstances be warranted . This was interpreted as lukewarm support for renewed negotiations with the United States on Iran 's nuclear programme . <p> Pezeshkian 's new foreign minister , Abbas Aragchi , was deeply involved in the negotiation of an earlier deal in 2015 , which saw Tehran curtail its nuclear programme in exchange for the lifting of sanctions . But in 2018 , during the course of his first term in office , Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew the US from the deal . In the intervening years , it is reported that Iran has made major advances , such that it is now close to the capability of developing nuclear weapons , should it choose to do so . <p> The Biden administration was dismissive of the possibility of renewed talks on the issue , not least because the prospect of negotiations with Iran was seen as potentially harmful of Kamala Harris 's hopes of success in the November presidential elections . Recent reports suggest that incoming president Trump 's transition team is examining a range of options to place additional pressure on Iran to desist from any provocative behaviour , including the possibility of supporting an Israeli attack on Iran 's nuclear facilities , but not excluding a direct US attack on Iran . Quite how an isolated Iran reacts to the changed regional environment will be hugely significant for the Middle East in 2025 . <p> Iran was not the only regional power to be severely damaged by the fallout of the conflict in Gaza . The consequences of the war have proved fatal for the regime of Bashar al-Assad , who was forced from office by an extraordinarily rapid offensive led by the Islamist Hayat Tahrir al-Sham movement . <p> Selective adherence to the norms of international law has been another feature of the past year in the Middle East <p> While the future looks uncertain for a country that has been ravaged by civil war and external intervention since Assad set out to crush a popular uprising in 2011 , the new rulers of the country have made encouraging sounds . The interim prime minister , Mohammad al-Bashir , stated that the new government would protect the rights of all people and all sects in the country , while it has been reported that enforced wearing of Islamic dress for women is to be prohibited . <p> But many inside as well as outside the country remain sceptical that a movement that has its origins in al-Qaeda is poised to oversee an inclusive transition from 54 years of authoritarian rule in Syria . The challenges facing the country are deepened by the array of external actors with interests at stake . Turkey has launched air strikes against Kurdish forces , while Israel 's response to the fall of the Assad regime was to embark on a series of attacks which destroyed much of the country 's remaining military assets . Israel moved its troops into the demilitarized zone to occupy previously unoccupied Syrian territory for the first time since the 1973 Yom Kippur war . The response of the international community to what would usually be considered a breach of international law has been muted for the most part . France called on Israel to withdraw from the buffer zone along the border with Syria , while Germany and Spain urged " restraint " during the transitional period post-Assad . <p> The Biden administration , by contrast , repeated the Israeli position that it was acting pre-emptively against potential threats from across the border -- despite repeated claims from the new rulers of Syria that their focus was on reconstruction and not conflict with Israel . <p> However , selective adherence to the norms of international law has been another feature of the past year in the Middle East . In September of this year , 50 days after the International Court of Justice declared that Israel 's occupation of Palestinian territory was unlawful , UN experts warned that the edifice of international law stood " on a knife 's edge " as most states failed to take meaningful steps to comply with their international obligations reaffirmed in the ruling . <p> The response of the Biden administration to the ICJ judgment had been to criticise its " breadth " because it would complicate efforts to resolve the conflict . When , in November , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Israeli prime minister , Binyamin Netanyahu , his then minister for defence , Yoav Gallant as well as Hamas military leader , Muhammad Deif , Biden issued a statement that the issuing of the warrants was " outrageous " . Among the many casualties of 12 months of war in the Middle East may be the health of international law and the institutions set up for its vindication . <p> Dr Vincent Durac lectures in Middle East politics in the UCD school of politics and international relations
