<h> Syria says an Israeli airstrike has destroyed Iran 's consulate building in Damascus with deaths <p> PTI Updated : April 01 , 2024 22:41 IST <p> Damascus , Apr 1 ( AP ) An Israeli airstrike has destroyed the consular section of Iran 's embassy in Damascus , killing or wounding everyone inside , Syrian state media said Monday . The Iranian Arabic-language state television Al-Alam and pan-Arab television station Al-Mayadeen , which has reporters in Syria , said the strike killed Iranian military adviser Gen. Ali Reza Zahdi , who led the elite Quds Force in Lebanon and Syria until 2016 . Iranian Ambassador Hossein Akbari condemned Israel and said as many as seven people were killed , but first responders were still searching for any other bodies under the rubble . He said two police officers who guard the building were wounded . In comments to the media after meeting Akbari , Syrian Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad said " several " people were killed . Mekdad in a phone call with his Iranian counterpart , Hossein Amirabdollahian , condemned Israel over the attack . Iranian state television said the Iranian ambassador 's residence was in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State news agency SANA , citing an unnamed military source , said the building in the tightly guarded neighbourhood of Mazzeh was levelled . The Israeli military did not immediately comment . Israel has carried out hundreds of strikes on targets in government-controlled parts of Syria in recent years . Such airstrikes have escalated in recent months against the backdrop of Israel 's war against Hamas in the Gaza Strip and ongoing clashes between Israel 's military and Hezbollah on the Lebanon-Israel border . Though it rarely acknowledges its actions in Syria , Israel has said it targets bases of Iran-allied militant groups such as Lebanon 's Hezbollah , which has sent thousands of fighters to support Syrian President Bashar Assad 's forces . ( AP ) RUP <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
