<h> Pak has established history of supporting terrorists : India at IPU <p> Geneva , Mar 24 : In the Right of Reply against Pakistan during 148th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union ( IPU ) , RajyaSabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh slammed Pakistan for supporting terrorists and said Islambad should be advised to stop terror factories that continue to launch cross-border terrorist attacks in the Jammu and Kashmir . At the 148th Assembly of the IPU in Geneva , Harivansh Narayan Singh said , " IPU Members are well aware that Pakistan has an established history of harbouring , aiding and actively supporting terrorists . Let me recall that Osama Bin Laden , the face of global terror , was found in Pakistan . The country holds the ignoble record of hosting one of the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN Security Council . I trust that Pakistan will draw the correct lessons for the good of its own people . " Criticising Pakistan over remarks against India , he said that lectures by a nation which has an " abysmal track record of democracy is laughable . " Harivansh Narayan Singh stated that Pakistan should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IPU . He said , " I take the floor to reject the preposterous comments made by Pakistan against my country . India is the largest democracy in the world and I am privileged that many consider the Indian democracy a model to be emulated . " " Lectures by a country which has an abysmal track record of democracy is laughable , to say the least . It would have been better if Pakistan did not undermine the importance of a platform like IPU by such absurd allegations and false narratives , " he added . Calling the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh integral party of India , he said that no amount of propaganda from anyone can change this fact . In his remarks , Harivansh Narayan Singh said , " As regards the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh , they have been and will always remain an integral and inalienable part of India . No amount of rhetoric and propaganda from anyone can override this fact . Instead , Pakistan would be well advised to stop its terror factories that continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while farcically claiming to champion the cause of human rights . " Earlier in October , India slammed Pakistan for raking up Kashmir issue in the midst of a debate meant for the Israel-Gaza situation and termed the action as of a ' habitual nature ' . R Ravindra , India 's Deputy Permanent Representative ( DPR ) to the United Nations , before concluding his remarks at the forum , called the remarks from the Pakistani side unworthy of a response and not worth dignifying . " Before I end , there was a remark of habitual nature by one delegation referring to Union Territories that are integral and inalienable parts of my country , " Ravindra said , adding , " I would treat these remarks with the contempt they deserve and not dignify them with a response in the interest of time . " ( ANI )
