<p> Washington , Apr 15 ( AP ) President Joe Biden on Monday hailed the " unprecedented military effort to defend Israel " on Monday as he hosted Iraq 's leader at the White House and his administration aims to prevent an escalation in Mideast hostilities following Iran 's weekend attack . Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani was visiting the White House for talks intended to focus primarily on US-Iraq relations , which had been scheduled well before the Iranian strikes . But Saturday 's drone and missile launches , including some that overflew Iraqi airspace and others that were launched from Iraq by Iran-backed groups , have underscored the delicate relationship between Washington and Baghdad . The sharp increase in regional tensions over Israel 's war in Gaza and the weekend developments have raised further questions about the viability of the two-decade American military presence in Iraq . However , a US Patriot battery in Irbil , Iraq , did shoot down at least one Iranian ballistic missile , according to American officials , one of dozens of missiles and drones destroyed by US forces alongside Israeli efforts to defeat the attack . Speaking at the start @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the US remains " committed to Israel 's security " . " Our partnership is pivotal for our nations , the Middle East and the world , " Biden told al-Sudani , as the Iraqi leader noted the discussion comes at a " sensitive time " . Meeting with Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Muhammad Ali Tamim before Biden 's session with al-Sudani , Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the U.S. was urging all parties to avoid escalation . " In the 36 hours since , we have been coordinating a diplomatic response to seek to prevent escalation , " he said . " Strength and wisdom need to be different sides of the same coin . " Tamim said the Iraqi government was equally concerned . " The Middle East today is living in exceptional circumstances that have repercussions on our nations , and we hope escalations and tensions in the area will end , " he said . Complicating matters , Iranian proxies have initiated attacks against US interests throughout the region from inside Iraq . Those ongoing strikes have made US-Iraq discussions about regional stability and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's talks would also focus on economic , trade and energy issues that have become a major priority for Iraq 's government . Biden praised al-Sudani for strengthening Iraq 's economy . The Iraqi leader also pressed Biden on working to bring a swift end to the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza , now in its seventh month , saying the economic dialog could n't ignore the humanitarian needs in the region . Biden , for his part , said the US was " committed to a cease-fire that will bring the hostages home and prevent the conflict from spreading . " The US and Iraq began formal talks in January about ending the coalition created to help the Iraqi government fight the Islamic State , with some 2,000 US troops remaining in the country under an agreement with Baghdad . Iraqi officials have periodically called for a withdrawal of those forces . The two countries have a delicate relationship due in part to Iran 's considerable sway in Iraq , where a coalition of Iran-backed groups brought al-Sudani to power in October 2022 . The US in recent months has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases in Iraq and Syria that have further roiled the Middle East in the aftermath of Hamas ' Oct 7 attack on Israel . Iran 's weekend attacks on Israel through Iraqi airspace have further underscored US concerns , although al-Sudani had already left Baghdad and was en route to Washington when the drones and missiles were launched . The US has also sought to apply financial pressure over Baghdad 's relationship with Tehran , restricting Iraq 's access to its own dollars in an effort to stamp out money laundering said to benefit Iran and Syria . Most previous Iraqi prime ministers have visited Washington earlier in their tenure . Al-Sudani 's visit was delayed because of tensions between the US and Iran and regional escalation , including the Gaza war and the killing of three US soldiers in Jordan in a drone attack in late January . That was followed by a US strike that killed a leader in the Kataib Hezbollah militia whom Washington accused of planning and participating in attacks on US troops . Al-Sudani has attempted to maintain a balancing act between Iran and America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several incidents that have put his government in an embarrassing position in relation to Washington . Early in his term , a US citizen , Stephen Edward Troell , was shot and killed by armed men who accosted him as he pulled up to the street where he lived in Baghdad 's central Karrada district with his family . An Iraqi criminal court convicted five men last August and sentenced them to life in prison in the case , which officials described as a kidnapping gone wrong . A few months later , Elizabeth Tsurkov , an Israeli-Russian doctoral student at Princeton , was kidnapped while doing research in Iraq . She is believed to be held by Kataib Hezbollah . The senior US official said Tsurkov 's case would also be raised during al-Sudani 's visit . Al-Sudani started his term with promises to focus on economic development and fight corruption , but his government has faced economic difficulties , including a discrepancy in the official and market exchange rates between the Iraqi dinar and the US dollar . The currency issues resulted in part from a US tightening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a crackdown on money laundering and smuggling of funds to Iran . The US has disallowed more than 20 Iraqi banks from dealing in dollars as part of the campaign . The al-Sudani government recently renewed Iraq 's contract to purchase natural gas from Iran for another five years , which could lead to American displeasure . The Iraqi prime minister will return to Iraq and meet with the Turkish president following his trip to Washington , which could finally lead to a solution to a long-running dispute over exports of oil from Kurdish areas of Iraq to Turkey . Washington has sought to get the flow of oil to resume . ( AP ) SCYSCY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
