<p> Despite being virtually isolated in the international arena for its unbridled warmongering , Israel has chosen to persist with its aggressive posturing and open new battle fronts . Its latest missile attack on Iran has only worsened an already precarious security situation in the Middle East , with serious economic implications for the rest of the world . Israeli missiles hit a military air base near the city of Isfahan in central Iran . Though the scale and method of the attack are still unclear , the development amounts to a major escalation in the region which is already under the grip of what appears to be endless violence and suffering . The explosions near Isfahan airport came less than a week after Iran , in a first direct attack , fired more than 300 missiles and drones at Israel . This was in response to an Israeli strike on an Iranian diplomatic compound in Syria that killed seven Iranian officials on April 1 . Since then , Israeli leaders have been threatening to respond to Iran 's strikes , which turned the two countries ' yearslong shadow war into a direct confrontation . Israel is already fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hezbollah in Lebanon . Both are allies of Iran . The escalation comes more than six months into Israel 's devastating war on the Gaza Strip which has reportedly killed nearly 34,000 people and heightens fears of a spiral of violence across the region . For nearly a week , world leaders have urged Israel and Iran to avoid sparking a broader war in the region . <p> The latest attack fuelled fears that the conflict could quickly spiral out of control . Some of Iran 's nuclear facilities , which Israel considers an existential threat , are located in the Isfahan province . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has rejected calls for restraint from close allies including the United States . His aggressive posturing and unhinged approach is worrisome , not just for the region , which is already in the throes of the Israel-Hamas war , but also for the world at large . The soaring tensions between Iran and Israel are putting China in a tight spot , as excessive instability or all-out war could threaten interests it has cultivated in both countries . The US and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostilities . The West has been ambiguous about the Israeli strike that killed two Iranian Generals in a consulate building in Damascus on April 1 . Such provocative attacks should be denounced categorically , irrespective of whether the perpetrator is a friend or a foe . But western countries are often accused of following double standards in foreign policy . The West 's support for Ukraine , often couched in terms of respect for international law , has been undermined by the same countries ' lacklustre support for Gaza . More often , western countries are concerned with violations of international law only when it serves their interests .
