<h> Rumpus on campus , keep free space safe <h> US universities have never been shy about calling in the police to deal with protesting students . Authorities must weigh the justification of taking precautionary measures to prevent violence , or exploitation of student protests by non-university actors when evaluating actions of university authorities in similar situations . <p> Hundreds of students have been arrested on university campuses across the US , as protesters persist in demanding a ceasefire in Gaza and divestment from companies allegedly ' financing ' Israel 's nearly 7-month military conflict in the Palestinian enclave . In a country that prides itself on free speech , university authorities called in police to deal with protests , some in their second week , and restore normalcy . University authorities claimed that professional/outside protesters have infiltrated the protests , which is why police were called . This echoes the argument from certain quarters against , say , the 1969 anti-Vietnam student protests in Chicago - ' Days of Rage ' - that do n't quite stick . Meanwhile , in Israel , Benjamin Netanyahu waded in , describing the demonstrations as ' antisemitic ' and comparing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in inter-war Germany . This is shocking . <p> US universities have never been shy about calling in the police to deal with protesting students . Authorities must weigh the justification of taking precautionary measures to prevent violence , or exploitation of student protests by non-university actors when evaluating actions of university authorities in similar situations . <p> Universities must be safe spaces for spirited discussions and arguments as well as peaceful protests . But in these intensely polarised days , does one need to draw a line in the sand ? One can argue , in fact , that there is all the more reason now for this free space . But Netanyahu 's equating protesting students with Nazi rallies is , at best , silly , at worst , nasty . Protests calling for a ceasefire , and calling on those with influence to lean on Israel to stop its military offensive , stem from a concern for a humanitarian crisis . They are not antisemitic or to be conflated as anti-Israel.
