<p> UNITED NATIONS - Women and children account for roughly 70 per cent of people slaughtered in Israel 's deadly attack on Gaza , with two mothers killed every hour over the past 100 days when the hostilities erupted , ac ? cording to a new report from UN Women , a global champi ? on for gender equality . The re ? port examines the gendered impact of the conflict , which has left more than 23,000 Palestinians dead , according to Gazan health authorities , about 16,000 of whom are women or children . " We have seen evidenced once more that women and children are the first victims of con ? flict and that our duty to seek peace is a duty to them . We are failing them , " UN Women Executive Director Sima Ba ? hous said in a statement is ? sued alongside the report . " That failure , and the gener ? ational trauma inflicted on the Palestinian people over these 100 days and counting , will haunt all of us for gener ? ations to come , " she warned . UN Women also reiterat ? ed deep concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other gender-based violence during the Hamas-led attacks against Israel on 7 October that sparked the con ? flict . The agency called for ac ? countability , justice and sup ? port for all those affected and for the immediate and uncon ? ditional release of all hostag ? es . UN Women said the Gaza conflict " is fundamentally a protection crisis for women " at a time when nowhere in the enclave is safe . Of the 1.9 million people now displaced , close to a million are women and girls , and the " impossible decisions " they have to make regarding whether to evacu ? ate -- when and how as well as where to go -- " are entrenched with gender-differentiated fears and experiences " , giv ? en risks of attacks and ha ? rassment while on the move . UN Women further estimat ? ed that at least 3,000 wom ? en may have become widows and heads of households , and at least 10,000 children may now be fatherless . As a re ? sult , more women fear fam ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriage . Meanwhile , women 's rights organizations continue to operate amidst the crisis . In November , UN Women conducted a rapid survey of 12 women-led orga ? nizations and one youth-led group which found that most -- 83 per cent -- were at least partially operating , focused mainly on the emergency re ? sponse . However , less than one per cent of funding un ? der the 2023 Flash Appeal for Gaza has directly gone to women 's groups .
