<p> JPMorgan is sticking to its bearish thesis amid a more optimistic outlook on Wall Street , saying investors are ignoring key market risks . " Markets are priced for perfection as valuations are rich , and extreme crowding in momentum stocks risks a sharp correction in this factor , " Marko Kolanovic , chief market strategist at the firm , wrote in a Monday note . " Additionally , we believe that markets are ignoring the substantial geopolitical and political risks given their apparent lack of immediacy , and that inflation risks are skewed to the upside , which could keep central banks ' target rates higher for longer , " he added . The strategist said he remains underweight equities and overweight cash . The Wall Street firm is an outlier among the major banks when it comes to year-end forecasts . As of Monday 's close , JPMorgan expects the S &amp; P 500 will tumble more than 17% to its 2024 target of 4,200 , according to CNBC 's market strategist survey . On average , strategists expect the broader index will end the year around 5,032 , or somewhat lower than where it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even as this year 's rally had the S &amp; P 500 shooting past many targets on Wall Street , driving other strategists to raise their forecasts . Last month , Goldman Sachs ' David Kostin raised his year-end target to 5,200 , up from 4,700 originally , citing an " improved earnings outlook . " This month , Bank of America 's Savita Subramanian raised her year-end target to 5,400 from 5,000 , making the strategist one of the biggest bulls on Wall Street . But Kolanovic said he expects the market rally is showing " early signs of exhaustion , " meaning the outlook for stocks could be to the downside after its momentum this year . The S &amp; P 500 has repeatedly notched all-time highs on the back of the artificial intelligence trade . The strategist said investors continue to underestimate significant -- and growing risks . Geopolitically , he pointed to the two ongoing wars in Gaza and Ukraine , a shift toward a multipolar world order , as well as an election year for many countries that could raise volatility around the globe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Federal Reserve 's 2% target could raise the risk of higher-for-longer interest rates , Kolanovic said . For the moment , markets are pricing in the start of rate cuts in June . On Tuesday , the February consumer price index showed inflation rising about as expected , though it also demonstrated the final stretch toward the Fed 's inflation target could be the most difficult . Meanwhile , Nvidia is growing point of concern for investors . The AI beneficiary , which has been a major driver for the S &amp; P 500 's gains this year , could drag the benchmark should it start to sell off . " NVDA has a causal relationship to S &amp; P 500 , " Kolanovic wrote . " Given this relationship coupled with very bullish investor sentiment and positioning , we caution investors that this relationship is likely to work in reverse when the AI euphoria peaks . "
