Text ID: t032803
Group:   global_south_2024_12
File:    corpus/04_now_screened_iqr/global_south_2024_12/pk/119011315.txt

Score (f1_neg): 1
Loading words (f1_neg), N=1: f2 score: 1
<h> How do you vote for child killers ? <p> The writer is a political analyst . Email : imran.jan@gmail.com Twitter @ImranJan <p> Listen to article <p> The American presidential election is over but it left behind a few things , which are perhaps larger than the election itself . Many people argue that the American voters rejected Kamala and the Democrats because they were deeply upset about the support for Israeli terrorism in Gaza . While that is true , I personally believe that the average American voter was driven more by his or her own circumstances . The credit card had gone above a trillion dollars . Interest rates were very high . Property taxes have been through the roof . Incomes were stagnant and inflation was unstoppable . It was becoming harder and harder for American families to live by . I am confident that Aristotle 's wisdom still holds , that all politics is local . <p> I was having a heated discussion with some American friends of mine who are white but they vote in favor of the Democrats though . They were making the case , similar to the argument made by Mehdi Hasan of Zeteo media , a loud mouth charlatan if you ask me . That despite the inflation , the war in Gaza , and the horrible track record on almost everything else , the American people should still vote for the Democrats because the other side , meaning Trump , is just so horrible . That argument , apart from being stinky , just was a stark reminiscent of the argument abusively exploited by every dictator in history , anywhere in the world . That democracy is not allowed because the result would be so bad for the people , therefore , the reluctant dictator has to stay in charge . Profanity is usually not allowed in any serious newspaper , otherwise , that is what I would be writing in response to such a sick argument . <p> I asked these friends a simple question : how do you justify voting for someone who killed children ? Their response first was that it was Biden who supported Israel not Kamala . I countered that Kamala was in the room when those decisions were made to arm Israel and knowingly kill innocent children of Gaza . This is when they threw the rotten argument that Trump was going to do even worse on Gaza . And this is also where it gets interesting . One , these people were going to vote for Biden also , had Kamala not happened . So , that thing about Kamala being clean was ridiculous and they knew it . Two , they are willing to judge Trump based on what he may or may not do in future , but refuse to judge the Democrats based on what they actually did . This must require a very alien-like discipline to just support one party no matter what they do . To them , the Democrats can never do anything bad and the Republicans are evil under all circumstances . <p> Then they threw the climate change bomb and said Trump does n't believe in it and calls it a hoax . Not that I was going to back down . I reminded them of what I always say about the Democrats and the Republicans . The Republicans tell you they are going to kill you and then they kill you . The Democrats smile and remind you how they are the decent and the good ones , and then they turn around and kill you . Take your pick . Trump calls climate change a hoax but Biden actually treated it as a hoax by almost begging the Saudis to drill for more oil , by vehemently supporting fracking , by paying lip service to the Paris climate agreement and doing absolutely nothing about it , and so forth . I asked my American friends a simple question again : what did Biden do for the climate ? They could n't tell me a single thing other than his speeches where he tried to sound like a science believing guy . <p> The truth is that most Democratic voters do not care when Palestinian children die at the hands of the Israeli terrorists . They do n't want to question why their money and name are being used by Israel in killing children of Gaza . Support for Israeli terrorism has hurt American national security before . It will do it again . It 's not an opinion . It 's math .
