<p> VATICAN CITY -- Pope Francis presided over his weekly general audience Wednesday alongside a Palestinian-crafted Nativity scene that was missing its eyebrow-raising signature element : a keffiyeh-draped manger holding the infant Jesus . <p> The wooden Nativity scene in the Vatican 's main audience hall had generated headlines when it was unveiled December 7 because of the presence of the keffiyeh , the black-and-white checkered headscarf that has become a potent symbol of the Palestinian cause . <p> Pope Francis had prayed before the creche briefly that day when he greeted the artists and donors responsible for all the Vatican 's Christmas decorations this year , which include various depictions of the manger in a Bethlehem stable where Jesus is said to have been born . <p> This year , the Nativity scenes were made by Bethlehem-based artisans . Representatives of the Palestinian Embassy to the Holy See , as well as special representatives of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas , had been on hand at the Vatican that day for the unveiling . <p> By Wednesday , when Francis was seen again in the audience hall , the keffiyeh , manger and infant Jesus had been removed from the Nativity scene , while the figures of parents Mary and Joseph remained . <p> While it is tradition in the Vatican for the infant Jesus to only be placed in the manger on December 24 , when Catholics celebrate the birth of Jesus , often the mangers remain in the scenes empty until that date . <p> The Christ figure had apparently been placed in the manger on December 7 to show off the finished product while the donors , artisans and pope were there to see it . <p> A Palestinian official said the Vatican had removed the keffiyeh without explanation , and it was unclear whether it would be restored on December 24 . The official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter with the media . <p> The official Palestinian news agency WAFA , in its report on the unveiling , noted the significance of the Jesus figure being wrapped in a keffiyeh . <p> During the encounter with the Christmas donors , Francis again referred to the " martyred Palestine " and , noting the broader conflict , repeated his call for an end to war . The Holy Land , including Bethlehem , is home to a small Christian community . <p> " Let us remember the brothers and sisters who , instead , right there and in other parts of the world , are suffering from the tragedy of war , " he said . " With tears in our eyes , let us raise our prayer for peace . Brothers and sisters , enough war , enough violence ! " <p> Francis has called for Hamas to release hostages taken from Israel on October 7 , 2023 , but he has long been sympathetic to the Palestinian cause . <p> He recently caused an uproar when he called for an investigation to determine if Israel 's attacks in Gaza constituted genocide . <p> Two Palestinian children presented the pope with a " Bethlehem Star " award , which WAFA said was a " powerful reminder of the suffering and sorrow endured by Palestinian children amid the ongoing Israeli war and blockade in Gaza . " <p> The Israeli Embassy to the Holy See declined to comment on whether it had complained about the keffiyeh creche or asked for it to be removed . Vatican officials merely recalled Vatican tradition that calls for the infant Jesus to only appear in the manger on Christmas Eve . <p> Palestinian Liberation Organization executive committee member Ramzi Khoury who attended the unveiling , expressed deep gratitude for what he said was the pope 's unwavering support for the Palestinian cause and his tireless efforts to end the war on Gaza and promote justice , WAFA said . <p> Coincidentally , Francis on Thursday was due to meet Abbas , the Palestinian president , at the Vatican .
