<h> Holiday travel <h> Faster , smarter , weirder <p> It is , somehow , December already . Your holiday cards may be trapped in Canada Post purgatory , but Mariah Carey is at this very moment blaring from a shopping mall speaker , there 's a giant blow-up Rudolph teetering precariously on your neighbour 's yard , and chances are good you 've got a flight to catch in the next few weeks . Brace yourself : Airports saw record travel over the summer and this past U.S. Thanksgiving weekend . The Christmas season is shaping up to be another unprecedented rush . <p> Of course , that rush really means standing in a snarled queue behind other stressed-out passengers , waiting ( and waiting ) to pass through security , buy an overpriced sandwich and -- especially -- get on the actual plane . With fewer flights leaving the gate on schedule and taxi times creeping up , airlines are under increasing pressure to smooth the boarding process . Let 's take a look at a couple of their latest approaches : There 's the carrot , the stick and the astrophysicist 's method that I 'm pretty sure you 're not going to like . <p> The carrot <p> As of tomorrow , passengers boarding most domestic Air Canada flights at Vancouver International Airport can walk onto the plane without handing over a single piece of physical ID . No need to fuss with your passport or driver 's license or even boarding pass -- you go to a camera-equipped kiosk and offer up your face . <p> Air Canada is the first Canadian airline to deploy facial recognition technology . To use it , you 'll need to download the airline 's app , scan your passport and take a selfie to create what Air Canada is calling a digital " faceprint " ( which they promise to delete within 36 hours of the flight ) . The app will hit you with Aeroplan incentives and ads for vacation packages , but unlike the U.S. airlines offering facial recognition -- including Delta and United -- Air Canada does n't require you to enrol in a loyalty program first . <p> As for the time saved ? After testing facial recognition in some of America 's busiest airports , such as Hartsfield-Jackson in Atlanta and LAX , Delta says its technology shaves a 20- to 25-second security encounter down to seven to 10 seconds -- though I suspect not everyone is so speedy right out of the biometric gate . <p> The stick <p> There 's a term airline insiders use to describe habitual zone hoppers trying to board a plane before their turn : They 're known as " gate lice , " and as if that phrase was n't sufficiently mortifying , American Airlines has now added public shaming to the mix . If you roll up to scan a boarding pass ahead of your group , the new system issues an audible two-tone alert to the gate agent ( and the many folks behind you ) and you 'll be sent back into the crowd to wait . The immediate effect will be to cause more delays , but the airline hopes once beeped , twice shy -- a deterrent I feel would be stronger if the alert sounded less like a text notification and more like an air horn . <p> The astrophysicist 's approach <p> To be fair , boarding zones are a mysterious mechanism , built not out of seat location but some frustrating mix of ticket price , cabin class , frequent flyer status and whether you happened to use an airline credit card . Surely it 'd just be more efficient to board from the back of the plane to the front ? Back in 2008 , an astrophysicist named Jason Steffen ran a bunch of computer simulations to show this method of boarding caused the fewest bottlenecks . To his surprise , however , the simulated passengers still got tied up in the aisles trying to store their overhead luggage . In fact , back-to-front boarding took the exact same time as the truly bananas front-to-back approach . <p> But his simulations did find a clear and counterintuitive winner -- call it outside-in boarding . Under this model , passengers load the plane from the window seats , starting with even-numbered rows and moving to odd ones , so people can space out within the cabin and avoid traffic jams . The airline moves to even-numbered middle seats , then odd ones , before wrapping up with even- and odd-numbered aisles . Steffen 's outside-in approach proved 30 percent faster than random boarding . It 's also twice as fast at boarding back to front . <p> And no one wants to use it , because this method does n't care about parents with young children or honeymooning couples or the guy who bought his premium-economy aisle seat with the right credit card . Last year , United Airlines dipped a toe into the window/middle/aisle model , which they nicknamed WILMA -- but only after first-class travellers , business-class travellers , travellers with disabilities , unaccompanied minors , active-duty military and families with small children have all boarded the plane . <p> Maybe it 's too exhausting trying to game the boarding process . I might be coming around to the spartan simplicity of WestJet 's new UltraBasic fare . No frills . No carry-on . No surprises : just a seat , boarded last , at the very back of the plane . <h> The Shot <h> ' I have lived with the volcano since I was a child . ' <p> Ash still covers houses on La Palma , one of the Canary Islands.Anna Liminowicz/The Globe and Mail <p> Three years ago , a six-metre-high wall of molten rock poured from the Tajogaite volcano and buried the homes on western La Palma , one of the Canary Islands . Now , residents are returning to rent diggers and stay in pup tents while they build again . Read more about their efforts here . <h> The Week <h> What we 're following <p> Today : The UN convenes a conference in Cairo on the humanitarian response in Gaza , with Canada pledging $50-million in aid for Palestinians in both the Gaza Strip and the West Bank .
