<h> City of Ottawa 's auditor general finds kickback scheme involving city employee and local landlords <p> Ottawa City Hall is seen in this undated file photo . ( CTV News Ottawa ) <p> Share <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> In her report , Nathalie Gougeon said a call to the city 's fraud and waste hotline earlier this year alleged that the scheme was underway . Gougeon 's office immediately began an investigation and informed the city solicitor , the city manager , the general manager of the Community and Social Services Department and Ottawa police . <p> Due to the complexity of the investigation , the AG also hired Ernst &amp; Young LLP to assist . <p> What the investigation found was more than $22,000 in payments from the landlords ( referred to as the Landlord , in the report ) to the city employee in question ( Employee A ) between Nov. 14 , 2023 and Oct. 1 , 2024 . Several of the payment records reviewed referenced addresses of units that the employee assisted the landlord with as part of the employee 's role at the city . Furthermore , the investigation found a family member of the employee in question , who was also employed by the City of Ottawa ( Employee B ) , knew of the scheme and did not disclose it , and was directly involved in collecting the money from the landlords . <p> " From our analysis of chat and messaging data from Employee A 's mobile device , we observed several messages between Employee A and the Landlord that would indicate that these payments were made by the Landlord with the intention to utilize Employee A 's role at the City to provide a financial benefit to the Landlord , " the report says . " This included messages where the Landlord told Employee A if they could get the Landlord ' higher rent ' , ' the bonus will be much larger . ' " <p> Employee A was found to have negotiated rental agreements on behalf of housing clients -- an apparent breach of city process -- and helped clients sign leases for rentals with the landlords that were actually well above market rates . <p> Examples provided in the report show leases signed with rental prices that were 38 to 63 per cent above the average market rates for their respective areas . A three-bedroom unit in the Heron Gate area was negotiated at a rent of $4,050 , well above the average of $2,491 . <p> " Without information to legitimize the payments made by the Landlord to Employee A , we observed multiple factors that indicate that these payments are consistent with a kickback scheme designed to provide a benefit to both the Landlord and Employee A , " the report said . <p> During the investigation , the auditor general 's office also learned that Employee B and the landlords began operating a moving company , which moved a housing client of Employee A. <p> " We further observed that Employee A submitted an invoice on behalf of the Moving Company , which was paid by the City for moving services rendered , " the report states . " We observed that Employee B and the Landlord both financially benefitted from a portion of the profits of this transaction . " <p> Neither the employees nor the landlords were identified in Gougeon 's report . <p> City staff told Monday 's Audit Committee meeting that one of the employees was fired and the second employee resigned . <p> Gougeon recommended the city cut all business relationships with the group of landlords , which city management said it is doing . <p> " A plan is underway to terminate all existing business relationships with the landlord as it relates to housing allowance programs . Tenants in receipt of housing allowances , that are currently residing in units owned by the landlord , will be supported to transition to alternate accommodations in a manner that will not put them at risk of homelessness , " the city 's response said . <p> The investigation also identified gaps in city processes including the absence of : appropriate monitoring processes to deter and assist in the detection of unusual or irregular transactions ; a fraud risk assessment to ensure necessary controls were in place to deter , prevent and detect fraudulent activities ; and a consistently applied accountability mechanism to ensure all staff have completed the required Code of Conduct training . <p> City management says it will be addressing these gaps . <p> Ottawa Police Chief Eric Stubbs told reporters at a media availability Monday afternoon that he could not confirm whether a police investigation was underway into this incident , but said it would not be any different from an investigation triggered by the private sector . <p> " Whether it 's internal theft at a business or corruption within a business , whether it 's the auditor general , or an accounting form , or Walmart ... it does n't matter what the company is , we have to receive the information , assess what evidence they 've gathered and determine if a criminal offence occurred , " he said . " Receiving something from the auditor general is no different from any other criminal investigation that we might launch . " <p> An Ottawa police spokesperson later confirmed the police service will be commencing an investigation into the matter . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday .
