<p> The NHL 's Utah Hockey Club , in town to play the Maple Leafs on Nov. 24 , got to experience all the awfulness Canada 's largest city had to offer when players were forced to walk to Scotiabank Arena for the game because of traffic . <p> In a video captioned " Got ta get our steps in " posted to the team 's Instagram account , players were shown abandoning the team bus before strolling under the Gardiner Expressway and past the CN Tower and Union Station toward the rink . <p> " Walking pregame to get to the rink because there 's way too much traffic , " said Utah defenceman Maveric Lamoureux during the team 's stroll . " The bus is not moving at all , so it 's just pretty much the whole team walking the street . " <p> Toronto has too much traffic so the boys got off the bus and walked to the rink ! ? ? I smell a conspiracy ! **26;511;TOOLONG <p> Fans , as you 'd expected had some fun with the situation on social media . <p> " Some gamesmanship , eh ? I SEE YOU , CANADA , " wrote one user on X. <p> " This is the hockey gods punishing you for injuring Ovechkin , " quipped another . <p> One reply read , " You think that 's the end of it ? Wait till you get back to Pearson . " While another user wrote : <p> " Trust me there 's no conspiracy , Toronto/GTA has some of the worst traffic in the world . Worst transit system for a major city in the world . Just be happier it was n't colder out when yall had to walk lol , sry eh ! " One reply read . <p> " You should brought some bikes and you could use all of our empty bike lanes ! " Read another . <p> " When Toronto traffic is so bad that NHL teams have to walk to their games , we 've got a serious problem , " Ford wrote . <p> " That 's why it 's so important that we deliver on our plan to fight gridlock by bringing sanity back to bike lane decisions , building highways and public transit , and speeding up construction on the Gardiner , " he added . <p> When Toronto traffic is so bad that NHL teams have to walk to their games , we 've got a serious problem . <p> That 's why it 's so important that we deliver on our plan to fight gridlock by bringing sanity back to bike lane decisions , building highways and public transit , and speeding ... https : //t.co/zyx9S0EFHE <p> X users were n't going to let Ford off that easy , however , as many were quick to remind the Premier that the annual Santa Clause Parade , which occupied many streets in Toronto 's downtown core on Sunday afternoon , was probably to blame for the traffic situation . <p> " Folks , I 'm cancelling the Santa Clause parade because people need to commute on Sunday , " quipped one user on X. <p> " You might as well ban The Santa Claus Parade . That 's what caused grid lock on Sunday , " wrote another . <p> " Doug it was because of the Santa Clause parade , how do you not know what 's going on in the city that you 're the premayor of ? " One commenter wrote , while another quipped : " Just ban reindeer from using bike lanes . Easy peasy . " <p> Toronto Mayor Olivia Chow also confirmed that the Santa Claus parade was to blame , joking that " Santa did n't conspire together with the Leafs . " <p> Ford , whose war on bike lanes in Ontario cities has been picking up steam over the past few weeks , added more fuel to the fire during an unrelated press conference on Nov. 25 . <p> " It was embarrassing that the Utah Hockey Team had to get out of the bus and start walking to the hockey arena . It is just unacceptable , people are avoiding downtown , " Ford said . <p> " Traffic in Toronto is an absolute nightmare right now , around the world and North America . " <p> Whatever you think about Ford and how he plans to tackle road congestion in growing Ontario cities , there 's one thing we can all agree : Toronto traffic is absolutely next level . <p> It also does n't discriminate , as everyone from actors to singers to pro-athletes and beyond have been affected in some way or another by the brutal traffic conditions plaguing Toronto 's streets . <p> Back in July of 2024 , former One Direction singer Niall Horan had to walk to his own show because traffic was at a standstill . Race car driver Lochie Hughes experienced something similar later that month en route to the Ontario Honda Dealers Indy in Toronto -- ditching his vehicle and renting a bike before finishing the journey to Toronto 's Exhibition Place on foot . <p> Australian IndyCar driver Lochie Hughes , who is in Toronto to compete in the Honda Indy this weekend , almost missed a pre-race press conference at Exhibition Place on Thursday because of the city 's infamous gridlock.https : **30;539;TOOLONG ... As far as the game goes , Utah 's night started out on the wrong foot and ended much the same , as the team 's commuting misfortunes foreshadowed a 3-2 loss to the Maple Leafs -- who leaned on a two-goal showing from Mitch Marner . <p> Fiorentina midfielder Edoardo Bove is in a medically induced coma after collapsing on the field during his team 's Serie A match at home to Inter Milan on Sunday , with the game abandoned shortly afterward . Bove 's teammates immediately called for medical help and both sets of players surrounded the 22-year-old while he was being treated before he was swiftly stretchered off to an ambulance near the pitch and taken to Careggi Hospital in Florence . " Fiorentina and the Careggi University Hospital announce that the footballer Edoardo Bove ... is currently under pharmacological sedation and hospitalized in intensive care , " Fiorentina said in a statement . <p> The search for the remains of Morgan Harris and Marcedes Myran has officially started at Prairie Green landfill , north of Winnipeg.The dig began Monday morning , Premier Wab Kinew announced at a noon news conference . " At 10:01 a.m. , the first truck carrying landfill material drove down this mountain that is Prairie Green and delivered that first load of landfill material into the search facility , " he said . " While I am professionally obligated to remind everyone that we do n't know what the odds of t <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> WARNING : This story contains details of deaths at residential schools.An Ontario coroner 's investigation has identified 220 additional deaths linked to Indian residential schools in the province -- deaths that were previously unknown to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission or the National Centre for Truth and Reconciliation ( NCTR ) . The NCTR 's memorial register lists 436 documented deaths at Ontario residential schools , so the confirmation of 220 more would bring the combined total of known deat <p> There 's nothing quite like a snow game 's ability to turn a primetime NFL matchup into chaos -- in the best way . And the Buffalo Bills embraced all of that in Sunday night 's win over the 49ers . It even gave us a hook-and-ladder touchdown <p> A woman who admitted to drinking and who was driving well over twice the speed limit when she smashed into a golf cart , killing a bride who had just got married at a South Carolina beach , was sentenced Monday to 25 years in prison . <p> Ontario has launched a multimillion-dollar U.S. ad campaign touting economic and cultural ties between the province and its southern neighbour as Canada faces the threat of 25 per cent tariffs enacted by president-elect Donald Trump . " For generations , this ally to the north has been by your side : Ontario , Canada , a partner connected by shared history , shared values and a shared vision for what we can achieve together , " a narrator says over new and archival video featuring shared landmarks like Ni <p> A man facing felony terrorism and hate crime charges after authorities said he shot a Jewish man and fired at responding officers during an October shootout in Chicago has died by apparent suicide , the Cook County Sheriff 's Office said . <p> Once presenting itself as one of the world 's most welcoming countries to refugees and immigrants , Canada is launching a global online ad campaign cautioning asylum-seekers that making a claim is hard . The C$250,000 ( $178,662 ) in advertisements will run through March in 11 languages , including Spanish , Urdu , Ukrainian , Hindi and Tamil , the immigration department told Reuters . Search queries such as " how to claim asylum in Canada " and " refugee Canada " will prompt sponsored content titled " Canada 's asylum system -- Asylum Facts , " the ministry said .
