<p> On October 7 , 2023 , the Hamas-led attack on Israel killed approximately 1,200 people and resulted in the capture of over 200 hostages . Since then , Israel has intensified its war on Gaza , killing over 45,000 Palestinians . <p> Since the October 7 attacks , Jewish students , campus groups , and the university administration have raised concerns about rising antisemitism at U of T. In interviews with The Varsity , members of the U of T community reflected on antisemitic incidents , the administration 's response , and the support available . <h> Rising hate crimes <p> Jenn Ferman , Senior Campus Director at Hillel U of T , wrote in an email to The Varsity that over the past academic year , Hillel recorded " a staggering 11 times increase in reports of antisemitism across our nine campuses in Ontario , of which U of T is part . " <p> She explained that " this matches the trend in our own city , " referring to the increase in hate-motivated crimes committed against Jewish people in Toronto . <p> As of March , 56 per cent of reported hate crimes in the city targeted Jewish people , with February seeing the highest number of antisemitic hate crimes in any month over the past three years . <p> According to Statistics Canada , Jewish people were targeted in 70 per cent of all religiously motivated hate crimes in 2023 , despite comprising only one per cent of Canada 's population . <p> In response to a rise in antisemitic incidents , Ferman urged U of T to " do everything in its power to ensure that those who violate policy and incite hatred against Jews are held to account -- and strengthen policies and procedures if necessary . " <h> Antisemitic incidents on campus <p> Ron Ulitsky , a fourth-year student studying computer science and a University of Toronto Student Union board member , noted an " explosive increase in reports of antisemitic graffiti and incidents around campus and the City of Toronto , " since October 7 . <p> " In the last academic year , there were constant reports of graffiti , usually in the form of swastikas , praise of listed terrorist entities , and calls for violence , " wrote Ulitsky in an email to The Varsity . " More concerningly , graffiti was commonly found within the vicinity of the Wolfond Center , which houses Hillel , and many Jewish students consider to be their cultural home on campus . " <p> Third-year anthropology and sociology student Ryn Van Leeuwen explained that antisemitic graffiti at U of T has been a notable issue since 2016 . <p> " The graffiti seem to come in waves now , around the start of each semester , but occasionally in between ; I hoped not to see them again this year but that is not the case , " they wrote in an email to The Varsity . " Over the past two years or so , I have seen swastikas near UTS on Spadina , around the borders of Queen 's Park , along Carlton Street on the way home from the QP subway station , and near the ROM and the Gardiner Museum . " <p> Van Leeuwen noted that the best way to address the problem " is not to increase policing or surveillance , " but to " create a culture that listens to students , provides space to collaboratively address students ' concerns , and ensures equitable access to the university . " <p> In addition to the graffiti , Ulitsky added that there were incidents of " overt threats made to Jewish students " and claimed that " Jewish students have seen many of their peers and respected academics praised for justifying political violence against Jewish civilians . " <p> " To top it off , instead of finding sympathy and solace in the university and student community , Jewish students often find themselves being lectured about what is or is n't antisemitic , " he wrote . " Such lectures are unfortunately common on campus , with many student groups and guest speakers taking it upon themselves to instruct Jewish students on how they should be feeling . " <h> " Tangible action " <p> Van Leeuwen and Ulitsky also expressed concerns about the university 's response to antisemitism . <p> For Ulitsky , " the University will only act if its lawyers believe they are on a completely solid legal footing , such as explicit threats , depiction of nazi symbolism , or violations of their property rights . " <p> He claims that " the university has made gestures , such as sending administrators to speak with concerned students , or to make broad virtue-signalling statements at conferences , but it fails to take any truly brave steps towards dealing with this crisis . " <p> " The last time I reported an incident to the Victoria College Dean , I did not get a response back , " Van Leeuwen explained . " The only time I got the university to take action was when I was referred to Campus Security who notified the Toronto Police Services . However , all they did was take down the swastikas I specifically pointed out -- most of which I had already covered up myself . " <p> A spokesperson for Victoria University confirmed that the antisemitic graffiti Van Leeuwen had reported has since been removed . <p> For Van Leeuwen , " U of T blames its own bureaucratic intricacies for not taking action -- ' it 's complicated ! ' -- but if they are committed to giving all students a good environment to learn , they need to be proactive and prioritize community-oriented , tangible action over press releases and platitudes . " <h> U of T 's response <p> On September 23 , U of T President Meric Gertler delivered remarks at a Conference on Historical and Contemporary Antisemitism . During the conference , he discussed the October 7 attacks on Israel , noting that their aftermath had led to a " dramatic and deeply troubling upsurge in antisemitic acts and speech . " <p> " The University of Toronto stands resolutely against antisemitism , as it does against all forms of hate and discrimination , " he wrote . " We have consistently and repeatedly condemned antisemitism and have taken strong steps to combat this pernicious form of hate , including enhancing our policies , training , and enforcement . " <p> In the November 22 statement , he noted that U of T has " initiated a community-wide process to enhance the capacity of our students , faculty and staff to ' disagree well . ' " The university also plans to counter antisemitism through its " core mission of scholarship and teaching . " <p> A U of T spokesperson wrote in a statement to The Varsity that , " providing an inclusive environment for everyone in our community means ensuring our physical spaces remain free from hateful or discriminatory messages based on race , place of origin , gender and sexual identities , creed/religion , or any of the prohibited grounds identified in the Ontario Human Rights Code . " <p> " Vandalism or graffiti on university property should be reported to the relevant Campus Safety service or equity office , " wrote the spokesperson . " U of T community members who have concerns about vandalism or graffiti in off-campus locations should report them to the relevant municipal police service . " <h> Student support <p> Both Van Leeuwen and Ulitsky called for the establishment of more grassroots Jewish advocacy groups on campus . <p> Ulitsky noted that " Hillel U of T is generally the go-to resource for all things Jewish on campus , " but the lack of additional student groups " results in a natural gap of support in most campus environments . " <p> Van Leeuwen found Hillel U of T to be " a somewhat corporatized but social space for students . " <p> " I know they have resources for reporting antisemitism , but my awareness of this coincided with my awareness of how they continue to uncritically support Israel ( both socially and economically through excursions ) and conflate Israel with Jews as a whole , even as the death toll of Palestinian civilians and children killed by the Israeli forces rose exponentially after Oct 7 , " they wrote . <p> " Hillel does not represent all Jews on campus -- and in that vein , I believe U of T needs to encourage the formation of alternative , bottom-up Jewish student groups , " Van Leeuwen explained . <p> " We should have a space where we are on equal footing to discuss and support each other . I am not going to ask U of T to make another committee ; whatever it does next should be student-focused , and should promote connection and conversation through guidance , not oversight , " they wrote . <p> If you or someone you know has experienced harassment or discrimination based on race , ancestry , place of origin , colour , ethnic origin , citizenship and/or creed at U of T , report the incident to the Anti-Racism and Cultural Diversity office : https : **30;271;TOOLONG . <h> More Links <h> Follow Us <h> Newsletter <p> Subscribe to our newsletter to receive news and updates directly from The Varsity . <p> Email <p> We would like to acknowledge that The Varsity 's office is built on the traditional territory of several First Nations , including the Huron-Wendat , the Petun First Nations , the Seneca , and most recently , the Mississaugas of the Credit . Journalists have historically harmed Indigenous communities by overlooking their stories , contributing to stereotypes , and telling their stories without their input . Therefore , we make this acknowledgement as a starting point for our responsibility to tell those stories more accurately , critically , and in accordance with the wishes of Indigenous peoples .
