<h> Can AI chatbots make your holiday shopping easier ? <p> Tired of thinking about what gifts to get everyone this year ? Artificial intelligence chatbots might help , but do n't expect them to do all the work or always give you the right answers . <p> Anyone scouring the internet for Cyber Monday deals is likely going to encounter more conversational iterations of the chatbots that some retailers and e-commerce sites have built to provide shoppers with enhanced customer service . <p> Retailers hope consumers use these chatbots , which are typically called shopping assistants - as virtual companions that help them discover or compare products . Prior chatbots were mostly used for task-oriented functions such as helping customers track down online orders or return ones that did n't meet expectations . <p> Amazon , the king of online retail , has said its customers have been questioning Rufus - the generative AI- powered shopping assistant it launched this year - for information such as whether a specific coffee maker is easy to clean , or what recommendations it has for a lawn game for a child 's birthday party . <p> And Rufus , which is available for holiday shoppers in the U.S. and some other countries , is not the only shopping assistant out there . A select number of Walmart shoppers will have access this year to a similar chatbot the nation 's largest retailer is testing in a few product categories , including toys and electronics . <p> Perplexity AI added something new to the AI chat-shopping world last month by rolling out a feature on its AI-powered search engine that enables users to ask a question like " What 's the best women 's leather boots ? " and then receive specific product results that the San Francisco-based company says are not sponsored . <p> " It has been adopted at pretty incredible scale , " Mike Mallazzo , an analyst and writer at retail research media company Future Commerce , said . <p> Retailers with websites and e-commerce companies started paying more attention to chatbots when use of ChatGPT , an artificial intelligence text chatbot made by the company OpenAI , went mainstream in late 2022 , sparking public and business interest in the generative AI technology that powers the tool . <p> Victoria 's Secret , IKEA , Instacart and the Canadian retailer Ssense are among other companies experimenting with chatbots , some of which use technology from OpenAI . <p> Even before the improved chatbots , online retailers were creating product recommendations based on a customer 's prior purchases or search history . Amazon was at the forefront of having recommendations on its platform , so Rufus ' ability to provide some is not particularly groundbreaking . <p> But Rajiv Mehta , the vice-president of search and conversational shopping at Amazon , said the company is able to offer more helpful recommendations now by programming Rufus to ask clarifying or follow-up questions . Customers are also using Rufus to look for deals , some of which are personalized , Mehta said . <p> To be sure , chatbots are prone to hallucinations , so Rufus and most of the tools like it can get things wrong . Juozas Kaziukenas , founder of e-commerce intelligence firm Marketplace Pulse , wrote in a November blog post that his firm tested Rufus by requesting gaming TV recommendations . The chatbot 's response included products that were not TVs . When asked for the least expensive options , Rufus came back with suggestions that were n't the cheapest , Kaziukenas said . <p> An Associated Press reporter recently asked Rufus to give some gift recommendations for a brother . The chatbot quickly spit out a few ideas for " thoughtful gifts , " ranging from a T-shirt and a keychain with charms to a bolder suggestion : a multifunctional knife engraved with the phrase " BEST BROTHER EVER . " <p> After a 5-minute written conversation , Rufus offered more tailored suggestions - a few Barcelona soccer jerseys sold by third-party sellers . But it was n't able to say which seller offered the lowest price . When asked during another search for a price comparison on a popular skin serum , Rufus showed the product 's pre-discounted price instead of its present one . <p> " Rufus is constantly learning , " Amazon 's Mehta said during an interview . <p> Shop AI , a chatbot that Canadian e-commerce company Shopify launched last year , can also help shoppers discover new products by asking its own questions , such as soliciting details about an intended gift recipient or features the buyer wants to avoid . Shop AI has trouble , however , recommending specific products or identifying the lowest-priced item in a product category . <p> The limitations show the technology is still in its infancy and has a long way to go before it becomes as useful as the retail industry - and many shoppers - wish it could be . <p> To truly transform the shopping experience , shopping assistants will " need to be deeply personalized " and be able - on their own - to remember a customer 's order history , product preferences and purchasing habits , consulting giant McKinsey &amp; Company said in an August report . <p> Amazon has noted that Rufus ' answers are based on information contained in product listings , community Q&amp;As and customer reviews , which would include the fake reviews that are used to boost or diminish sales for products on its marketplace . <p> The large language model that powers the chatbot was also trained on the company 's entire catalog and some public information on the web , Trishul Chilimbi , an Amazon vice-president who oversees AI research , wrote in the electrical engineering magazine IEEE Spectrum in October . <p> But its unclear how Amazon and other companies are weighting different training components - such as reviews - in their recommendations , or how exactly the shopping assistants come up with them , according to Nicole Greene , an analyst at management consulting firm Gartner . <p> Perplexity AI 's new shopping feature allows users to enter search queries such as " best phone case " and to receive answers derived from various sources , including Amazon and other retailers , such as Best Buy . Perplexity also invited retailers to share data about their products and said those that do would have an increased chance of having their items recommended to shoppers . <p> But Perplexity CEO Aravind Srinivas , suggested in a recent interview with Fortune magazine that he did n't know how the new shopping feature recommended products to customers . But in an interview with the AP , Chief Business Officer Dmitry Shevelenko pushed back on that characterization , saying Srinivas ' comment " was probably taken out of context . " <p> The context , he said , is that with generative AI technology " You ca n't know in advance exactly what the output will be just based off of knowing what the inputs " are from the training materials . <p> Shevelenko said retailers and brands need to know they ca n't have their products recommended in Perplexity 's search engine because they 're " jamming key words " into their websites or using different techniques to show up better on search results " <p> The way you show up in an answer is by having a better product and better features , " he said . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said on Monday stepping up support for Ukraine was essential to put the country in the strongest position for peace talks as he conceded in the clearest terms there could be a negotiated end to the war . <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> The U.S. Supreme Court examined on Monday the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 's refusal to let two e-cigarette companies sell flavored vape products that regulators consider a health risk to youths , while the lawyer for the businesses suggested President-elect Donald Trump could steer a different course . <p> The British Columbia Securities Commission has fined a cryptocurrency trading platform and its director more than $18 million after finding the company lied to its customers by diverting nearly $13 million of their investments into gambling websites and personal accounts . <p> Actor James Van Der Beek said he is selling signed ' Varsity Blues ' merchandise to help families struggling with the cost of cancer treatments , following his revelation last month of his own cancer diagnosis . <p> Harvey Weinstein was hospitalized Monday following an ' alarming blood test , ' his attorney said , less than a week after he filed a legal claim alleging substandard medical care at New York City 's notorious jail complex . <p> Slippery or snow-covered roads , reduced visibility and bitter cold are all conditions that can make driving difficult and even dangerous during cold weather months . CAA spoke with CTV Morning Live this week on some of the best ways you can winterize your car . <p> Saskatchewan received yet more snow as winter continues to ramp up on the prairies . With the increased precipitation , communities have recorded dipping temperatures -- with a handful breaking or tying longstanding records . <p> It 's considered lucky to live to be 100 , but often when you hit that milestone , you 're faced with significant mobility issues . Not Winnipeg 's Jack Mudry . The centenarian regularly walks five blocks to get where he wants to go , the care home where his wife Stella lives . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments .
