<h> Sections <p> Ontario is launching a U.S. ad campaign , touting the province as an " ally to the North " ahead of President-elect Donald Trump 's second term and under the threat of tariffs on all Canadian goods . <p> " For generations , this ally to the North has been by your side : Ontario , Canada , a partner connected by shared history , shared values and a shared vision for what we can achieve together , " a narrator is heard saying over video of Ontario landmarks , archival footage , and border crossings . <p> Premier Doug Ford tweeted the one-minute spot on Monday morning , noting that the campaign has been in the works for " months " ahead of a new administration in Washington . <p> " As part of that work , today we 're launching a national U.S. advertising campaign . In a changing world , let 's bring jobs back home and build together -- more workers , more trade , more security , more prosperity , " he wrote . <p> The ad highlights that Ontario is the U.S. 's third-largest trading partner and the number one export destination for 17 states . Ford previously said that nearly $500 billion worth of trade was done between Ontario and the U.S. last year . <p> Ford 's pitch for stronger Ontario-U.S. relations comes on the heels of Trump 's threat of 25 per cent tariffs on all Canadian and Mexican goods , unless both countries solve what he called the " long simmering problem " of illegal drugs and migrants crossing their borders . <p> Economic experts have said that if Trump makes good on the promise the financial consequences for Ontario , and Canada overall , would be dire . When Ford first spoke publicly about the tariffs last week , he said Trump 's announcement was like " a family member stabbing you right in the heart . " <p> Since then , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau convened an emergency meeting with all the premiers , and has spoken to the President-elect directly at least twice : once on the phone after the initial announcement and a second time during a surprise visit to Trump 's Mar-a-Lago resort on Friday . <p> Ottawa has promised to make additional investments at the border since Trump made the threat , but the specifics of that commitment remain unclear . <p> In an interview with Newstalk 1010 Monday afternoon , Ford said that while the proposed tariffs would be felt by Ontarians , they would also have a negative effect on American jobs . <p> " 1,000 per cent it 's gon na hurt the U.S. Nine-thousand Americans wake up every single morning to build products and parts for Ontario , and customers of Ontario , " Ford said . <p> Speaking about the border , Ford called for an increased presence of CBSA and RCMP officers , something Industry Minister Fran ? ois-Philippe Champagne says is coming . Ford also repeated previous remarks he made about Mexico , calling the difference between the northern and southern borders " night and day . " <p> A spokesperson for the Ford government said the ad will run " where we know our audience is " during Fox News primetime , NFL football games , and at Washington airports over the holidays . The campaign will then expand in the new year and feature placement during the Super Bowl on the FOX Sports app . <p> The cost of the ad campaign has not been released by the Ontario government . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday .
