<h> Broken Pencil magazine to shut down as founder cites pressure over pro-Israel views <p> Broken Pencil founder and publisher Hal Niedzviecki , pictured in 2017 , is shutting the publication after he said pressure over his public pro-Israel statements cut off key revenue sources.Fred Lum/The Globe and Mail <p> The founder and publisher of Broken Pencil is shutting down the three-decade-old magazine after he said pressure over his public pro-Israel statements cut off key revenue lines , including at the publication 's well-known sister conference . <p> Hal Niedzviecki said that he faced significant blowback in recent months despite keeping his personal views separate from editorial operations . The backlash includes a petition signed by nearly 200 people , including former editors and contributors , asking him to resign as publisher of the zine-culture and arts magazine . It cited several posts of his on X , formerly Twitter , that " deny the livestreamed genocide and ethnic cleansing of the Palestinian people . " <p> " Hal has used X to conflate anti-Zionism with antisemitism , to mock protesters at the University of Toronto People 's Circle for Palestine , and to deny the use of starvation by Israel against the people of Gaza as a weapon of war , " the letter reads . ( During an attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas militants killed more than 1,100 people and took approximately 250 others hostage ; the death toll of Palestinians in Gaza since Israel declared war on Hamas has since surpassed 44,000 , according to to the Palestinian Ministry of Health . ) <p> In a letter posted on Broken Pencil 's website on Saturday announcing its closing , Niedzviecki said " the relentless pursuit of ideological purity and identity politics has overshadowed the core mission ofBroken Pencil . " <p> The publication launched in 1995 and grew to become a national nucleus for discussion and criticism of Canada 's many zines -- those fiercely independent , community-oriented , small-circulation and usually self-published magazines dedicated to often deeply specific subject matter -- as well as comics and the broader arts scene . Published quarterly , Broken Pencil grew in tandem with a conference called Canzine , which celebrated zines and other small-press publications . <p> In an interview , Niedzviecki said public pressure from the petition and elsewhere had pushed away advertisers , and cast a pall over planned Canzine events in Toronto and Ottawa . This year 's editions were cancelled , which the petition organizers credited to the " co-ordination of zinesters refusing to be vendors . " The result , Niedzviecki said , was " a direct financial loss of quite a bit of money , " as the events were major subscription drivers . <p> " This is an incredibly difficult environment to carry on with your work , especially when your work is a labour of love , " Niedzviecki said . He lamented that the backlash against him personally had financial consequences for the publication : " My opinions posted on my personal social media had absolutely nothing to do with how the magazine was comporting itself in the arts and culture space . " <p> Petition organizers said Niedzviecki 's views ran contrary to the values held by much of the zine community , and they hoped to persuade him to change course . One of them , long-time zine-maker and two-time Broken Pencil Zine Award winner Sonali Menezes , said that it was " misleading for Hal to blame a shifting in the values of the zine community for the demise of the magazine . Nothing has shifted . " <p> Another organizer , Sylvia Nowak of the PaperJam zine fair , said Broken Pencil " always depended on the labour and love of a larger zine community , and the community will continue on without Hal and BP . " <p> At one point , some of Broken Pencil 's staff publicly stated they held much different views on Israel and Gaza than Niedzviecki . In a July Instagram post , editors Zack Kotzer and Olea Kim wrote : " We are pro-Palestine . We decide the content and direction of the magazine and select which materials to publish -- materials chosen from submissions and pitches from the zine community ( you ) . " <p> In an e-mail Tuesday , Kotzer , who resigned in early September , said : " I was surprised to learn the magazine would be discontinued after my departure . In conversations we had about alternative structures within the mag , Hal made it sound as if these were situations he was willing to weather . There are few art publications , especially in print , and it is sad to have one less . " <p> Niedzviecki 's letter confirmed Broken Pencil 's closing nearly two months after Kim wrote in a separate Instagram post that the magazine , Canzine and the Zine Awards were " in the process of closing " at their publishers ' behest . <p> This is not the first time Niedzviecki 's opinions have caused controversy . In 2017 , he resigned as editor of the Writers ' Union of Canada 's Write Magazine after publishing an opinion piece titled " Winning the Appropriation Prize . " <p> " In my opinion , anyone , anywhere , should be encouraged to imagine other peoples , other cultures , other identities , " he wrote in the 2017 article . " I 'd go so far as to say that there should even be an award for doing so -- the Appropriation Prize for best book by an author who writes about people who are n't even remotely like her or him . "
