<p> Zionist forces are seeking a return to a time when anti-war voices were violently suppressed . <p> Recently , genocide lobbyists stirred up a storm over a planned vigil in Mississauga to commemorate " resistance leaders " " fighting for Palestinian freedom " . The poster for the Canadian Defenders 4 Human Rights event had an image of deceased Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar . <p> Genocide lobbyists demanded Toronto 's most populous suburb suppress the planned rally . In response to the pressure , Mayor Carolyn Parrish said she would n't shutter Charter protected speech . Parrish added , " I just want to point out , and I 'm not being facetious , Nelson Mandela was declared a terrorist by the United States of America until the year 2008 . Your terrorist and somebody else 's terrorist may be two different things . " <p> Those promoting Benjamin Netanyahu 's holocaust in Gaza lost it . How dare Parrish compare the Hamas leader to Nelson Mandela . But Mandla Mandela , Nelson 's grandson and sitting member of South Africa 's legislature , has made similar comparisons . <p> Canadian media often described Mandela as a terrorist . In 2001 Conservative MP Rob Anders called the then South African President a " communist and a terrorist " and heckled him in the House of Commons . Anders repeated the " terrorist " claim upon Mandela 's 2013 death . <p> Unlike Mississauga 's mayor , politicians and police across the country are increasingly seeking to suppress those opposing Canada 's assistance to genocide . Ten days ago the Ottawa police violently arrested four protesters during a walking tour of arms production facilities . They followed that repression with a series of arbitrary arrests this weekend . Ottawa family physician Xipeng Ge labelled " the police brutality and repression " on Sunday as " a display of fascist violence . " <p> In a more egregious example of state overreach , the Vancouver Police Department 's Emergency Response Team raided the home of long-time anti-apartheid activist Charlotte Kates . On November 14 heavily armed officers showed up at 9 a.m. with an armored vehicle and fired flashbangs as part of entering her east Vancouver house . <p> " I saw what looked like a tank with guys in tactical gear outside aiming a tear gas gun at the house " , a neighbour told Global News . " I feel scared , just because I do n't know what is going on . " <p> Kates was arrested in the raid and subsequently released . No charges were even laid in this instance of police overreach . <p> Kates is the international coordinator of the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network , which the Canadian government recently designated a terror entity despite no one even claiming they 've been involved in violence . A Canadian BDS Coalition statement correctly asserted , " The Trudeau Government Breaches the Constitution in Placing the Samidoun Prisoners Network on the Terrorist List . " The 1982 Charter of Rights and Freedoms enshrines the principle of habeas corpus yet the terror list subverts a group 's ability to defend itself legally . <p> The Canadian BDS Coalition statement notes , " By virtue of the terrorist listing , an organization or even an individual 's assets can be frozen ; any use of property owned or controlled by the listed organization becomes a crime . Moreover , there is the ' black-balling ' of the organization , and anyone accused of being associated with it can be accused of being a ' terrorist , ' regardless of their personal actions , without ever laying criminal charges or proving guilt in court . " <p> In a National Post column headlined " Samidoun has been banned . Now , it 's time to stamp it out " Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs representative Mark Freiman and Alliance of Canadians Combatting Antisemitism head Mark Sandler are now calling on the government to revoke the citizenship ? of Kates and her husband Khaled Barakat . <p> The suppression of anti-genocide protests fits a pattern of the Canadian state and imperialist forces cracking down on anti-war voices . At the beginning of World War I the federal government adopted the War Measures Act , which granted the state ? sweeping ? powers to imprison almost anyone considered a security threat . <p> Hundreds of pacifists and antiwar activists were ? arrested ? while the Industrial Workers of the World and a dozen other revolutionary organizations were banned . Labour organizer Ginger Goodwin was ? killed ? on Vancouver Island for opposing the war while in spring 1918 ? four opponents of conscription were killed by security forces in Qu ? bec City . <p> During WWII ? hundreds ? of dissidents and communists , including the president of the Canadian Seamen 's Union and Mayor of Montr ? al , were interned under the War Measures Act . Dozens of organizations and publications were also banned and like WWI official censorship was imposed . <p> During the Korean war Canadian Peace Congress chairman James Endicott was bitterly denounced with external minister Lester Pearson calling his college friend a " red stooge " and " bait on the end of a Red hook . " Pearson even called for individuals to destroy the Peace Congress from the inside . <p> Government attacks spurred media and public hostility . A number of venues refused to rent their space to the Peace Congress and Endicott 's Toronto home was ? firebombed ? during a large Peace Congress meeting . <p> Whether one agrees with everything Samidoun or Charlotte Kates has to say about <p> Israel , the government criminalizing a Palestinian prisoner solidarity network and the police targeting its coordinator should be troubling . It reflects a regression to a far more repressive time . And it 's being pushed by supporters of a foreign government . All those who believe in our Charter of Rights and Freedom should be concerned . <p> Support rabble today ! <p> We 're so glad you stopped by ! Thanks for consuming rabble content this year . <p> rabble.ca is 100% reader and donor funded , so as an avid reader of our content , we hope you will consider gifting rabble with a donation during our summer fundraiser today . <p> Nick Seebruch , editor <p> Whether it be a one-time donation or a small monthly contribution , your support is critical to keep rabble writers producing the work you 've come to rely on as a part of a healthy media diet . <h> Yves Engler <p> Dubbed " Canada 's version of Noam Chomsky " ( Georgia Straight ) , " one of the most important voices on the Canadian Left " ( Briarpatch ) , " in the mould of I. F. Stone " ( Globe and Mail ) , " part ... More by Yves Engler
