<h> Kingston , Ont. doctor in ' disbelief ' after being ordered to repay $600K for pandemic vaccination payments <p> A Kingston , Ont. doctor who has been ordered to repay more than $600,000 to the provincial government for improperly billing thousands of COVID-19 vaccinations says she 's not surprised by the verdict but is disappointed by it . <p> The dispute concerned Dr. Elaine Ma who organized drive-in vaccination clinics , administering shots in several parking lots in the Kingston region between January 2021 and January 2022 . <p> The Ministry of Health argued Ma misused the Ontario Health Insurance Plan 's ( OHIP ) billing code because she hired unpaid Queen 's University medical students as volunteers who could not be considered employees . In addition , the services were not provided in Ma 's office , a violation of what the province deems to be " delegated services " that are regulated under a different fee structure . <p> In a ruling delivered by the Health Services Appeal and Review Board on Nov. 26 , Ma was found to not be eligible to bill OHIP $600,962 plus interest . <p> " It 's really still just disbelief that we 've completely forgotten about COVID , " she told CTV News Ottawa on Monday . " We 've completely forgotten what we were asked to do . We were completely forgotten the fact that we were asked to do it in new and different ways , and quickly , and as fast as possible . We 've completely forgotten that the Ministry of Health provided a per-shot vaccine code , and that was what was billed . It was n't anything over that . It was the amount of money that they allocated for those shots to be given . " <p> She added that she does not have the money she is being asked to pay back . <p> " It was n't an amount of money that I received . Yes , I received it , but a lot of it then turned around and paid to run these clinics . So , do I have this amount of money sitting around , just waiting to get back to OHIP ? No . Further , that will mean that I have actually paid to vaccinate 36,400 people in our community , out of pocket , at my expense , " she said . <p> Ma argued the Ministry was applying a strict and unreasonable interpretation of the terms " physicians office " and " employee " based on a bulletin issued 20 years ago . <p> Ma had spent two years fighting OHIP 's claim , insisting all OHIP billing rules were followed and argued leaving out medial students , residents and other physicians would have prevented the essential delivery of thousands of vaccines during a public health crisis . <p> She says it 's standard practice to bill for work medical students are involved in , and the students were given training . She also argued the province 's rigid interpretation of " physician 's office " would have required her to lease large spaces to carry out her clinics . <p> Ontario 's Health Insurance Act sets out which services rendered by physicians are eligible for payment as insured services under OHIP . Payment is only authorized to the physician who rendered the service personally or by a physician hired by the physician as an employee . <p> Physicians submit claims for payment to OHIP for insured services , which are paid on an " honour system " but can be later audited . <p> The general manager of OHIP found that " based on the information provided , the various individuals who administered the vaccines during the Review Period were not employed by Dr. Ma , " the ruling said . <p> " The Appeal Board acknowledges the efforts made and results achieved by Dr. Ma in organizing clinics to facilitate vaccinations of so many in her community . However , the Appeal Board does not have the discretion to ignore the requirements of the Act and the Regulation including the Schedule of Benefits . For the reasons set out above , the Appeal Board finds those requirements were not met . " <p> Ma said Monday she does not know if she 'll appeal the verdict because it would be time away from family and friends . <p> Dr. Elaine Ma administrate vaccine during a drive through COVID-19 vaccine clinic at St. Lawrence College in Kingston , Ontario , on Sunday January 2 , 2022 . ( Lars Hagberg/THE CANADIAN PRESS ) <p> Ma had received support in her dispute with OHIP from Dr. Piotr Oglaza , the medical officer of health for the Kingston , Frontenac , Lennox and Addington ( KFL&amp;A ) public health unit , who expressed concerns the dispute could have a chilling effect . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday .
