<h> ' A very major impact ' : CFIB calls for all-hands-on-deck approach to U.S. tariff plans <p> Share <p> Simon Gaudreault , CFIB chief economist , discusses the impact of U.S. tariffs on Canadian businesses with Alberta Primetime host Michael Higgins . <p> This interview has been edited for clarity and length . <p> Michael Higgins : Let 's start on the Trump tariff threat . If the president elect follows through and it 's as high as 25 per cent , how is this most likely to impact the small- and medium-sized businesses your organization represents ? <p> Simon Gaudreault : This is going to be a very major impact , there 's no question about it . 2023 Stats Can reports that out of the roughly 50,000 or so Canadian businesses that exported that year , 97 per cent were actually small- or medium-sized businesses and they represented 40 per cent of the value of exports . So in terms of trade , exports and imports , small- and medium-sized businesses from very different sectors and all across Canada have a very large stake in this situation . <p> MH : There are those who suggest this is Donald Trump 's opening salvo to shake up trade dynamics . Need there be a political rush to action ? <p> SG : I think at this stage it 's probably important to understand that this is part of a negotiation . Canada has , sort of , been there during the first Trump presidency . Of course , this time is a bit different , the frame is different , but I think panic would n't help in this case . <p> We need to certainly take this very seriously , as CFIB has shared a few days ago in a statement , we need to make sure that we have a very strong team Canada and all hands on deck to address the situation . But at this stage , I think it 's really important that we look at all of the different options , assess Canada 's position , and make sure that we put all of the chances on our side in this potential negotiation . <p> It 's good news to know that the Canadian government has already started the work , well before the election . Following a bit of the same playbook as they followed during the first Trump presidency , which is to meet with different levels of policy makers in the U.S. , state governors that have perhaps a bigger stake in the U.S.-Canada trade for their state . <p> We must look also at a larger question , which is our competitiveness in Canada relative to the businesses in the U.S. because the Trump administration also has a very aggressive policy when it comes to corporate taxation and also cutting red tape . <p> It was urgent before the announcement of the tariffs , but it 's even more urgent now to have a very strong plan to make business more competitive in Canada . <p> MH : If the team Canada approach is n't as solid as many hope , what are the consequences of political bickering between federal and provincial governments ? <p> SG : There is no question that this is a very big piece of economic news , and the analogy that I sometimes use is based on this image that some of us have heard before , the six degrees of separation . You 're only six people away from anywhere or anyone on the planet . In terms of the economy , we 're probably only one or two or three businesses or workers away from the U.S. economy , because not only do we export a lot of stuff in the U.S. , but a lot of businesses import also and are part of supply chains that are on both sides of the border . <p> So a lot of businesses , whether they import or export directly or not , because they may buy from another business that is more directly involved , pretty much everybody in the economy is going to be impacted directly or indirectly by this . So we must take this seriously and it has to be really at the top of the priorities list at the moment . <p> We 're certainly hoping that , as I was mentioning earlier , this is a large part of this is part of a negotiation tactic , and that we will be able to come up with a response that will make sense and that will protect the Canadian economy and jobs and businesses . <p> MH : We have a GST holiday bill passing , we have a Canada Post strike that continues from a business perspective . Is one out weighing the other in terms of where your membership sits ? <p> SG : It does pile on . We 've just sent a survey to CFIB membership on both of these topics . Already 3,800 businesses from all across Canada responded . The feedback that we 're hearing is that both are impacting them . <p> We were surprised by the lack of support for the GST measure . It seems that majority of businesses oppose it , and even when you look at the subgroup of businesses that actually sell goods that will be impacted by the GST holiday , the position is higher at 62 per cent . <p> The reason is it 's going to be complicated to administer , there 's little time to do it , and there 's cost associated with programming and reprogramming the point of sales and so on . So businesses are looking , and we 've been calling for some understanding from the CRA post-tax holiday , when we may find out that some have have n't collected everything , because it 's so complicated to administer and the cost , we 're looking for some sort of compensation . <p> For the Canada Post strike , I think this piles on top of everything else . A lot of businesses , especially in rural communities , do not have a ton of options and still rely very much on Canada Post , not just to ship parcels , but checks are still very much a payment method . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments .
