<h> Effortless holiday decorating tips for a cozy and stylish home <p> ( La-Z-Boy ) <p> Share <p> Sponsored by : <p> The holiday season is just around the corner . It 's a time for joy and togetherness , but if we have to simplify the season down to two things , they 're really about spending time with loved ones and embracing all-things cozy . <p> However , preparing your home to host family and friends can feel overwhelming . From decorating to rearranging furniture , it 's easy to feel the pressure of wanting a fresh , festive look without knowing where to begin . Fortunately , with La-Z-Boy 's expertise and versatile products , you can achieve both with ease . <h> Small touches make a big difference <p> Holiday spirit often begins with the little things that set the mood . To create a warm and inviting home , start with your entryway . A welcoming touch , like a wreath or holiday-themed d ? cor , personalizes the space and sets the tone for visitors . You can incorporate faux fur or plaid pillows and throws to bring a winter cabin feel into your living room , and enhance the ambience with warm colours and invigorating patterns . <p> Adding key pieces , like La-Z-Boy 's chair and a half , creates a stylish and cozy spot perfect for enjoying holiday drinks like eggnog , mulled wine , or a classic hot chocolate . While red and green are traditional Christmas colours , consider experimenting with white , gold , and silver for a sparkling , luxurious touch . Adding a holiday-scented candle in cinnamon or pine next to your La-Z-Boy recliner can evoke warm , cherished memories . <h> Redecorating for the holidays <p> If your layout is meant more for your immediate family or smaller , more intimate gatherings , but your holiday hosting duties mean more people than usual , the holidays are a great time to rethink your space and add a fresh layout . To start , try rearranging furniture to accommodate your Christmas tree and holiday d ? cor . If you need to add some more warmth to your space , a wool area rug is the perfect way to cozy things up while also adding richness and anchoring the room , offering texture and pattern that complement your festive theme . <p> To tailor your furniture for your style and space , you can customize your statement pieces with La-Z-Boy . Their sectional sofas can be configured to fit your home perfectly , and their Apollo reclining sofa and loveseat are great ways to add comfort and elegance . Have a smaller space ? The Emric sofa is perfect for apartments . Complete the look with their seasonal rugs and accent pillows for a cohesive holiday vibe . <p> ( La-Z-Boy ) <p> Of course , do n't forget to ensure you have enough seating for your guests . Things like ottomans , cubes or poufs are ideal for around the fireplace , adding functional and visually appealing seating options . <p> Want to redecorate but not sure where to start ? La-Z-Boy 's free in-home design service provides expert advice on creating a holiday-ready home that reflects your personal taste . And if you are going to update your furniture for the holidays , La-Z-Boy is hosting a food drive from December 9th to 23rd , and for every unopened and unexpired donation , you 'll get a 1% discount , up to a maximum of 12% off ! The promotion is happening at all four of their stores , and the discount is valid storewide* . These donations not only help those in need but also offer an opportunity to refresh your home for the holidays . <h> Finishing touches <p> Of course , no holiday home is complete without festive focal points . Design a stunning centerpiece for your coffee table using a decorative tray filled with glowing candles , pinecones , and small ornaments . Adding sprigs of evergreen or holly brings a natural touch indoors , enhancing the holiday atmosphere . This combination of textures and festive charm invites warmth and cheer into your living space . <p> To help make your holiday experience even better , La-Z-Boy is hosting exciting initiatives . From December 1st to 20th , enter the Santa 's Furniture List : Your Wish Our Gift contest . Participants can explore an exclusive e-catalog and choose a product they hope to win . One lucky winner will be announced on December 23rd . <h> Create a holiday haven <p> This season , make your home the centre of holiday traditions and memories . Whether you 're baking cookies , decorating the tree , or hosting loved ones , the gift of a beautifully styled and comfortable space is one that keeps giving . With La-Z-Boy 's expert guidance and stylish products , you can transform your home into a cozy , festive haven -- perfect for celebrating the most wonderful time of the year . <p> *See store for details . Can not be combined with other offers . Previous purchases excluded . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> The British Columbia Securities Commission has fined a cryptocurrency trading platform and its director more than $18 million after finding the company lied to its customers by diverting nearly $13 million of their investments into gambling websites and personal accounts . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra.
