<p> Kilam , 45 , grew up in Lethbridge , Alta. , and graduated from the University of Alberta , where he played as a linebacker for the Golden Bears from 1997 to 2001 . <p> He worked for the Calgary Stampeders in various positions for almost two decades until last month when he was let go . He had served most recently as the team 's assistant head coach and special teams coordinator . <p> " Special teams guys are prepared for these jobs . We 're the only ones that talk to the whole team , other than the head coach . Good special teams coordinators have a presence in the room -- you have to if you want to get your guys to play . You 're game managers . You 're constantly thinking ahead , what 's the next situation , what are we anticipating here ? " he told reporters during a news conference at Commonwealth Stadium on Monday . <p> He listed his vast experience and reputation as a " players ' coach " as things that make him qualified for the job , but he also spoke about the sentiment of once again wearing green and gold , as he did throughout his playing career . <p> " I was involved in another hiring process here before that unfortunately I did n't get , " Kilam revealed . <p> " I really found out how much I wanted to be here when we started the ( most recent ) process . The synergy when we get in the room and we get talking about ideas and how we see and how we feel an organization should look and act like on a day-to-day basis , we were aligned , " he said of conversations with president and CEO Chris Morris and vice-president of football operations and general manager Ed Hervey . <p> Hervey said " overwhelming " support from players for Kilam was the deciding factor in his hiring . <p> " There was not one candidate the players were more excited about than Mark , " he said . <p> Hervey added , " Some people are just looking for the opportunity to be a head coach . But Mark 's excitement about coaching the players and all the stuff that came with it was just so different than everyone else ... I 'm looking at who would I want to work with moving forward , with the way the landscape of the ( Canadian Football League ) is with player movement and one-year contracts and all these different things ? There 's this gentleman to my right here the players want to play for and that makes all of our jobs easier . " <p> He declined to say how many candidates were interviewed for the job . <p> Kilam said he would soon be reaching out to players and had already reached out to potential staff . He called both ventures promising . <p> " We 're going to be a team that 's built tough . That 's built for the cold . We 're going to be a team that does n't back down and does n't turn it down . We 're going to commit to playing a style of winning football and that 's going to look like whatever it takes each and every week . We 're going to commit to playing a certain type of football that the people in this city can believe in , " he said in a passionate speech addressed to current and future Elks members . <p> To the fans , he said , " I know you are starving for this program to succeed . Something was taken from you and I can promise you we are going to work our ass off to bring that feeling back . We 're going to rep this city , and rep these colours , with pride and I 'm asking you to give us a chance so that we can prove that to you . " <p> Since the Elks fired Chris Jones in July , Jarious Jackson has been acting as interim head coach . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments .
