<p> The Syrian military rushed reinforcements to the northwest and launched air strikes Sunday in an attempt to push back insurgents who seized the country 's largest city of Aleppo , as Iran pledged to help the government counter the surprise offensive . <p> Iran has been a key political and military ally of Syrian President Bashar Assad in the country 's long-running civil war , but it was unclear how Tehran would support Damascus in the latest flare-up that began Wednesday . Insurgents led by jihadi group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham launched a two-pronged attack on Aleppo and the countryside around Idlib that day , before moving toward neighbouring Hama province . <p> On Sunday , government troops created a " strong defensive line " in northern Hama , as they attempted to stall the insurgents ' momentum , according to Britain-based opposition war monitor the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . Meanwhile , jets pounded the cities of Idlib and Aleppo , killing at least 25 people , according to the Syrian civil defence group that operates in opposition-held areas . <p> The surge in fighting has raised the prospect of another violent , destabilizing front reopening in the Middle East at a time when Israel is fighting Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon , conflicts that have repeatedly threatened to ignite an even wider regional war . It also risks drawing Russia and Turkey -- each with its own interests to protect in Syria -- into direct heavy fighting against each other . <p> The insurgents announced their offensive Wednesday , just as a ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel began , raising some hope that tensions in the region might be calming . <p> The surprise offensive is a huge embarrassment for Assad , and it comes at a time when his allies -- Iran and groups it backs and Russia -- are preoccupied with their own conflicts . <p> White Helmets search the rubble for survivors , following a strike by the Syrian airforce that targeted a neighbourhood in the rebel-held northern city of Idlib on Sunday.MUHAMMAD HAJ KADOUR/AFP/Getty Images <p> According to a statement from Assad 's office , Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi reassured the Syrian leader during a visit to Damascus that Tehran was ready to support the government in their counteroffensive . <p> Arab leaders , including Jordan 's King Abdullah II and United Arab Emirates President Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan , have also called Assad to express their solidarity . <p> The insurgents took over most of Aleppo on Saturday and made gains in the surrounding province . They also seized the main water pumping station for city and it is no longer working , Syrian Minister of Water Resources Moataz Qattan told the pro-government radio station Sham FM . <p> Elsewhere , rebel commander Col. Hassan Abdulghani said the insurgents advanced in the countryside around Idlib , putting all of the province of the same name under their control . <p> They also claimed to have entered the city of Hama , but there was no independent confirmation of that . <p> In Khan Sheikhoun in Idlib province , military vehicles abandoned by Syrian troops dotted the roads . People posed and took pictures of themselves atop one abandoned tank on a highway , while the insurgents grabbed munitions and shells from them before continuing their push deeper into Syria . <p> The insurgents vowed to push all the way into Damascus , but life in the Syrian capital remained normal with no signs of panic . In southeastern Aleppo , however , the main road out of the city was gridlocked as people fled the fighting , and gas stations in the area were short on fuel . <p> The rebels also made it into Tel Rifaat , a town near Aleppo held by U.S.-backed Syrian Kurdish forces , according to pro-government pan-Arab Al Mayadeen TV . <p> Tel Rifaat is far from the large swaths of northeastern Syria that are controlled by the Kurdish troops , known as the Syrian Democratic Forces . A statement from the insurgency called on the SDF to leave the areas near Aleppo that they hold and retreat to their bastions in the northeast . <p> Civilians flee fighting between anti-government fighters and Syrian regime forces in the eastern part of Aleppo , on Dec.1 , 2024 . The city has fallen from government control for the first time since the Syria 's conflict began more than a decade ago.AREF TAMMAWI/AFP/Getty Images <p> Despite being at odds politically with the Syrian government , the Kurdish-led administration has opposed the insurgency and accused Turkey , the main back of Syrian opposition groups , of trying to displace the Kurdish population . <p> Turkish officials have said a limited offensive by the rebels was planned to stop government attacks on opposition-held areas in recent weeks , but it expanded as government forces began to retreat . <p> The United Nations special envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , said the push by the rebels poses a risk to regional security and called on resuming diplomatic efforts to end the conflict . <p> U.S. national security adviser Jake Sullivan told CNN 's " State of the Union " that the U.S. is watching the situation carefully . There are about 900 American troops in Syria 's northeast -- far from where the insurgency is happening -- who are meant to guard against a resurgence by the extremist Islamic State group . <p> The group leading the rebel advance is designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. , and Sullivan said Washington has " real concerns about the designs and objectives of that organization . " <p> " At the same time , of course , we do n't cry over the fact that the Assad government , backed by Russia , Iran and Hezbollah , are facing certain kinds of pressure , " he added . <p> According to Syrian state news agency SANA and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , the army overnight pushed back insurgents in the northern countryside of Hama province . <p> Syrian state media said government resupply included heavy equipment and rocket launchers while Syrian and Russian air strikes targeted weapon depots and insurgent strongholds . Sham FM said the Syrian army shot down drones belonging to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in northern Hama . <p> Syrian state television claimed government forces had killed nearly 1,000 insurgents over the past three days , without providing evidence or details . <p> Government air strikes in Idlib and Aleppo killed at least 25 people , of which 14 are women and children , according to the Syrian Civil Defense , also known as the White Helmets , that operates in opposition-held areas . <p> Residents could be seen fleeing through ash-covered streets . Men lowered a child from the high floor of a building whose fa ? ade was blown off . <p> Air strikes also struck in and around Aleppo , including near a hospital in the city centre , killing 12 people , including at least eight civilians , according to the White Helmets and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . <p> The 2016 battle for Aleppo was a turning point in the war between Syrian government forces and rebel fighters after 2011 protests against Assad 's rule turned into an all-out war . After appearing to be losing control of the country to the rebels , the Aleppo battle secured Assad 's hold on strategic areas of Syria , with opposition factions and their foreign backers controlling areas on the periphery .
