<p> Northern Health has denied wrongfully demoting a former employee for making pro-Palestinian statements outside of work . <p> Amy Blanding , former executive director of the Northern Health Authority 's inclusion , diversity , equity and accessibility office , says she was removed from her position for being critical of Israel 's war in Gaza , which has now killed nearly 45,000 Palestinians , according to reporting by Al Jazeera . At least 1,139 Israelis have died since the conflict began with a Hamas-led attack in Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Blanding filed a civil lawsuit against Northern Health in early October alleging defamation , breach of Charter rights and constructive dismissal , which is when an employer changes working conditions in such a way that an employee is forced to quit . <p> Neither Blanding 's claims nor the authority 's response have been tested in court . <p> Blanding says she was removed from her position as executive director earlier this year after her employer received a letter of complaint alleging she made members of the Prince George Jewish community feel unsafe . <p> The complaint letter points to three main actions taken by Blanding . First , that she wore a watermelon T-shirt to a choir rehearsal in Prince George ; second , that she sang a song in a choir concert about violence inflicted against children during conflict ; and third , that she made a personal social media post about the concert criticizing the " genocide in Palestine " and Israel 's use of force that , at the time , had " murdered 33,000 civilians , over 14,000 of them children . " <p> Blanding has been working as a musician in Prince George for more than a decade and says she produces music " with a political bent that speaks to social justice work . " <p> In October , Blanding told The Tyee that her intention was to be critical of the Israeli government , not Jewish people . <p> The complaint letter contested Blanding 's claim of 33,000 civilian deaths and the classification of the conflict as genocide , and said her watermelon T-shirt was " a blatant , visual call for the genocide against the citizens of the only Jewish nation in the world . " <p> Data and analysis from UN experts align more closely with Blanding 's assertions in her social media posts than with the letter 's counter-statements , and , according to reporting by NPR , the watermelon symbol has been used to represent Palestinian resistance to occupation since the 1980s and is currently most commonly understood as a call to ceasefire . <p> Blanding says she bought the T-shirt in a fundraiser for humanitarian aid for Gaza in support of Palestinian human rights . <p> After Northern Health received the complaint , Blanding says , she was asked to publish a pre-written apology to her personal social media accounts . <p> Blanding previously told The Tyee this felt as if her employer wanted her to admit to wrongdoing . When she asked Northern Health if she could think about it , she said , she was told that was the same as refusing and that she had been removed from the executive director position . <p> The lawsuit alleges , " Northern Health executives stated that the context and accuracy of the letter were irrelevant to their decision . Northern Health 's priority was risk management , not doing the right thing . Northern Health did not follow its own guidelines concerning complaints from the public . " <p> In its response , Northern Health said it " received and investigated the complaint per its internal policies and procedures " and " determined that it was appropriate to take corrective steps to address some of the concerns arising from the plaintiff 's conduct . " <p> After she was removed as executive director , Blanding says , she was offered her old position of regional manager of organizational education and training , where she 'd worked from June 2018 to August 2024 . <p> Blanding 's lawsuit says she was led to believe the executive director position would be made into a permanent one , but Northern Health 's response says the position was always temporary and it was " explicit or implied " in the contract that Blanding would return to her regional manager position in August 2025 . <p> A " key area of responsibility " of the role " as explicitly set out in the IDEA contract and implied , included ... not engaging in activities , even on her personal time , that she knew or ought to have known may be offensive to individuals , both members of the public and NHA staff , " Northern Health said in its response . <p> Because Blanding was in a senior leadership role , her actions could be perceived as representative of the health authority , which could make people feel " ostracized or unwelcome and potentially hesitant to access health care , " Northern Health said in its response . <p> Blanding 's refusal to publish the pre-written apology to members of the Jewish community constituted a breach of her contract , and Northern Health was " therefore entitled " to remove Blanding from the executive director role and put her back in her regional manager position in May , the response continued . <p> Northern Health said it had committed to compensating Blanding with the executive director salary until August 2025 , but that Blanding went on medical leave on May 21 , 2024 , and resigned June 10 , 2024 . <p> Therefore , the health authority says , it should n't have to pay anything to Blanding . It denies she suffered any damages , was forced to quit or was defamed . <p> Northern Health also said it " is not a government actor or entity under Section 32 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms , " and therefore Blanding can not say her Charter rights were violated because she was not a government employee . <p> When Blanding filed her lawsuit in October , she was joined at the Vancouver courthouse by her former supervisor , Vash Ebbadi-Cook , former executive director for workforce sustainability , quality and innovation at Northern Health . Ebbadi-Cook uses they/he pronouns . <p> Ebbadi-Cook quit in protest after Blanding was removed from her executive director role . They joined Blanding for support only ; they are not participating in the lawsuit . <p> Speaking with The Tyee after Northern Health filed its response , Ebbadi-Cook said he was not surprised but is disappointed with his former employer 's response . <p> " The piece that stuck out for me was the argument against the Charter claim itself , " they said . " I worry about what message that portrays for people to continue speaking up against not just genocide , but how Northern Health is going about managing people . " <p> Ebbadi-Cook added they feel frustrated that Northern Health does n't seem to have learned any lessons after they quit in protest over how Blanding was treated . <p> " Every difficult decision is bound to create some manner of harm , but this was undue harm and , from my perspective , it created a lot of unintended consequences that have furthered that harm and eroded trust , " Ebbadi-Cook said . <p> The Tyee contacted Blanding and her lawyer Karen Segal after Northern Health filed its response to their lawsuit , but they declined to comment .
