<h> My Chemical Romance Pays Tribute To Drummer Bob Bryar <p> " It is with a heavy heart that we say goodbye to Bob Bryar , our former bandmate and an important part of the history of My Chemical Romance , " band members Gerard Way ( lead vocalist ) , Ray Toro ( lead guitarist ) , Frank Iero ( rhythm guitarist ) and Mikey Way ( bassist ) wrote in a joint statement posted to Instagram alongside a photo of Bryar performing . <p> Bryar had the distinction of being the influential group 's longest-tenured drummer , serving MCR from 2004 to 2010 . MCR eventually disbanded in 2013 , reuniting in 2019 for a tour , new material , additional festival performances and a forthcoming 2025 stadium tour . Meanwhile , Bryar retired from drumming in 2021 , and MCR has not replaced his spot with a full-time drummer since his departure . <p> " We send our deepest condolences to his friends and family at this time , " the statement continued . " May he rest in peace . " <p> The musician , sound engineer and double platinum artist 's body was found Nov. 26 at his home in Tennessee after he was last seen alive three weeks prior . Bryar 's cause of death is currently under investigation , according to TMZ , but no foul play is suspected as all of his weapons were found untouched . He was 44 . <p> Born Dec. 31 , 1979 in Chicago , Bryar began drumming at a young age , performing with his school marching band before going on to study sound engineering at University of Florida . Following his career as a musician , during which he also worked with acts like The Used and Thrice , he got into real estate and was an avid dog rescue charity supporter . <p> Of working with MCR , Bryar told Alternative Press in 2016 : " I was so happy to receive the offer . Long before we recorded ' Welcome to the Black Parade , ' I knew that MCR were special and I wanted in . I wanted to help evolve the band and be able to shred with them every night . I think my last huge memory was playing a sold out show at MSG to end the tour . I never thought that would ever happen to me , and I still ca n't believe that was for real . " <h> Latest Stories <p> Rockers AC/DC announced dates for what will be the band 's first North American tour in nine years , with the launch set for April 10 , 2025 , at Minneapolis ' US Bank Stadium . The " Power Up " tour takes its name from the band 's 2020 album . This year , AC/DC completed a European leg of the tour . The current line-up ... <p> " Star Wars " has always been , on some level , for children . That 's neither condescension nor criticism : George Lucas created a swashbuckling fairy tale set in space , and its mantle has been taken up by successive generations of filmmakers who encountered it at a formative age . But , with the exception of " The Phantom Menace , " " Star Wars " stories ... <p> Following up the arrival of Wicked Part One and Gladiator II at the box office right before Thanksgiving is a feat in and of itself , but following a beloved first feature installment gave Moana 2 even more of a wave to surmount . Directors Dana Ledoux Miller , Jason Hand and David G. Derrick Jr . navigated these ... <p> Facing the prospect of widespread tariffs that could plunge the Canadian economy into recession , Alberta 's premier is responding to the concerns of U.S. president-elect Donald Trump , in the hopes of avoiding the 25 per cent tariffs if illegal immigration and drug flow are not addressed . " Well , look , let 's stop the leaky border first . Let 's stop the illegal migration first . Let 's stop the fentanyl first . Let 's meet our NATO commitment first , and let 's see where we get with the Americans , " Danielle <p> WARNING : This story contains graphic descriptions of alleged sexual assault.A jury will begin deliberating on Tuesday after hearing closing submissions in the trial of Ottawa man Nikolas Ibey , who is charged with first-degree murder for killing Savanna Pikuyak in September 2022 . On Monday , Ibey 's lawyer told the jury that the 35-year-old did not sexually assault his new roommate while killing her . But in her closing submission shortly afterward , assistant Crown attorney Sonia Beauchamp said sexua <p> After the show 's midseason finale , the trailer for Fox 's " 9-1-1 : Lone Star " s remaining episodes dropped -- the show will return on Monday , Jan. 20 . The 30-second preview teases an asteroid warning that could mean the end of the world as the crew of firefighters must band together . " 9-1-1 : Lone Star " is a spinoff of the original ... <p> Millions of Canadians will throw $5 in Tuesday for a shot at winning the $80-million Lotto Max jackpot.It 's a staggering top prize , one with an equally staggering one-in-33 million chance of winning it.Since it started in 2009 , Lotto Max has been the " big win " lottery game in Canada with massive jackpots in return for a more expensive $5 ticket . Lotto 6/49 , by comparison , costs $3 per play . Nigel Turner , a scientist with the Institute for Mental Health Policy Research at the Centre for Addiction <p> The partner of a man who went missing near Chetwynd , B.C. more than six weeks ago says she believes their dog , which disappeared at the same time , has been found alive.Micaela Sawyer says she believes a golden retriever found injured and emaciated last week is the same dog , named Murphy , that she and her partner , Jim Barnes , owned together.Barnes , a paramedic , took Murphy with him before he disappeared . He was last seen on the Groundbirch Forest Service Road , about 60 kilometres southwest of For <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . "
