<h> Experts surprised by rising number of walking pneumonia cases <p> Share <p> Experts say a rise in respiratory illness is expected as the temperature drops , but this year , they 're seeing a surprising number of walking pneumonia cases in younger people . <p> " We see peaks every five years or so . We did n't see a peak last year , but we know other jurisdictions did , " said Dr. Matthew Tenenbaum , the associate medical officer of health for **26;850;TOOLONG Public Health , in an interview with CTV News . " This may just be part of the cyclical nature of how this bacteria circulates . However , we ca n't explain why it 's affecting young kids this time more often . That 's still a bit of a mystery to us . " <p> Common symptoms of walking pneumonia include fever , headache and a slowly worsening cough . Severe symptoms , requiring additional medical care , can range from rashes , to breathing issues , to symptoms impacting the heart and brain . <p> It is typically is a milder form of pneumonia <p> " Where someone has an infection that 's brewing in their lungs , but it 's not necessarily bad enough that they go to their family doctor or primary care provider or go to a hospital , " explained Tenenbaum . " They 're dealing with it because it 's mild . They do n't seek care and they 're walking around with it , which means that they can pass on to others . " <p> Tenenbaum said there are tests to detect the bacteria , mycoplasma pneumoniae , that commonly causes walking pneumonia . <p> Ontario Public Health last saw the highest number of positive tests in 2019 : 5.8 per cent of them came back positive for the bacteria , with a total of 137 positive specimens . <p> In 2024 , 18 per cent of tests were positive , with 733 positive specimens . In Waterloo Region , there were 24 positive tests with 17.6 per cent showing the bacteria , while in **26;878;TOOLONG , there were six positive specimens , making up 14.3 per cent of overall tests . <p> " Compared to what we 'd expect , we 're seeing the biggest increases in the youngest age groups . You know , youth and teens between ages 10 and 20 seem to be about the biggest group , but it 's also high for kids under 10 . That 's unusual , because that 's not usually where we see pneumonia cases cropping up . Usually , it is something that affects people in older age groups , " said Tenenbaum . " The number of tests for this bacteria coming back positive are higher than we would expect . In particular , among those who are younger under age 20 or so . That seems to correspond with reports we 're hearing about in the community about more people with these milder forms of pneumonia . " <p> Tenenbaum said the symptoms of walking pneumonia are similar to influenza and Covid , but can be treated with antibiotics . <p> Region of Waterloo Public Health encourages residents to stay up-to-date with vaccinations , stay home when sick , consider wearing a well-fitted mask in indoor public settings , and seek medical care for severe , persistent or worsening symptoms . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday .
