<h> Does this book read as too parochial -- or too ' Zionist ' ? The pitfalls of Writing While Jewish <p> Back in 1963 , the late Philip Roth wrote an essay for Commentary entitled " Writing About Jews . " It 's a powerful manifesto about the purpose of fiction -- one incidentally about postwar Jewish America -- but with broader relevance . Is the point of an individual novel or short story to portray all of humanity , or something specific about human nature via a handful of characters or even one protagonist ? Is it the responsibility of artists from minority communities to depict their fellow group members in a flattering light , or even to attempt to achieve an accurate sweeping overview of the group in question ? <p> Roth did not hand-wring about any of this : " Fiction is not written to affirm the principles and beliefs that everybody seems to hold , nor does it seek to guarantee us of the appropriateness of our feelings . " <p> Moreover , he wrote , it is not a novel or story 's responsibility to replicate sociology , but rather to showcase aspects of human nature eluded by other avenues : <p> " The test of any literary work is not how broad is its range of representation -- for all that breadth may be characteristic of a kind of narrative -- but the depth with which the writer reveals whatever it may be that he has chosen to represent . " <p> Roth specifically took issue with Jewish communal leaders and members of the Jewish community press , who saw his depictions of Jewish adulterers and the like as unseemly , especially so soon after the Holocaust . They were , per Roth , missing the point : <p> " Looking at fiction as they do -- in terms of ' approval ' and ' disapproval ' of Jews , ' positive ' and ' negative ' attitudes toward Jewish life -- they are likely not to see what it is that the story is really about . " <p> Mourning the loss of Philip Roth , Jewish literary giant . He wrote the Jewish American experience with complexity and humor . May his memory be a blessing ? ? **26;1429;TOOLONG <p> Roth wrote for general readerships , but also understood himself as in a competition of sorts with Jewish leaders over Jewish audiences : <p> " If there are Jews who have begun to find the stories the novelists tell more provocative and pertinent than the sermons of some of the rabbis , perhaps it is because there are regions of feeling and consciousness in them which can not be reached by the oratory of self-congratulation and self-pity . " <p> At first , when reading Roth here , I thought , they 're mad about Portnoy 's Complaint , but then I remembered the year : 1963 . Portnoy was only published in 1969 . Look how furious people were at him in the early 1960s ! Little did they know . <p> The fault line , for ' 60s Philip Roth , had been art versus parochialism . Universalism and individualistic greatness -- and freedom -- versus being a timid little mouse worried what non-Jews would think , worried about propriety and respectability . And the question at hand was about the works themselves -- how were Jews depicted within stories written by Jewish authors , authors informed by their own experience . <p> Today , the fault line is something else altogether . <p> *** <p> Now in 2024 , the question is where an author stands on Israel , Palestine , Gaza , Zionism . All authors are kind of pressed on this , as with the Giller Prize , wherein a bunch of people decided that accepting $100,000 for fiction-writing was complicity with genocide -- primarily due to sponsor Scotiabank retaining a stake in Israeli arms manufacturer Elbit Systems . The bank 's name was removed from the Giller Prize branding this year , but its award-funding remained . Behold , a recent CanLit intiative , of sorts , one that reads like an attempt at pleasing everyone , but that wound up pleasing no one . <p> ( Yes , I preferred Roth 's literary manifesto to the social media statement by Anne Michaels , who won the 31st annual Giller for her latest novel , Held . ) <p> But writers who are Jewish -- an identity Michaels could claim but does n't seem keen on , at least not consistently -- are in a particular bind . It 's not something they can sit out , either . Simply existing as a Jew , the odds are too great that you are or were affiliated with a Hillel House or a falafel shop or whatever it is that is Bad Now and that you must either ceremonially renounce or affirm . <p> Artists and writers of all faiths and backgrounds now sign petitions and open letters , post to social media , pin affiliations to their backpacks , put emojis in their bios , and yes , engage in more substantive political organizing and donating . Whether you 're Team Sally Rooney or Team Mayim Bialik is not a matter of where you stand on Normal People versus The Big Bang Theory , or not straightforwardly . <p> *** <p> When is a book a Jewish book , and when -- if ever -- can it just be a book ? What was once an arcane question for ( say ) people determining the recipients of Jewish book awards , or where to shelve which novels in a bookstore , has taken on a new urgency . <p> In the 1960s inhabited by Philip Roth , the horizon was one where a writer of any background could become a Great . " ' The epithet American-Jewish writer has no meaning for me , ' he said . ' If I 'm not an American , I 'm nothing . ' " These are not the remarks of someone transcending all barriers ( " American " is n't universal ! ) but the gist was , he did n't want to be relegated to a hyphenated sphere . He was too ambitious for such a small pond . In recent years , as I discussed in a different Jewish media outlet in 2016 , Roth has gotten lumped in with straight white male literature -- recognized , at last , as the just-American artist he 'd hoped . <p> The currently active English-language Jewish writers must choose between two mid-sized ponds . Either you join up with the literary community for Palestine or the literary community for **30;1457;TOOLONG . Either you 're aligned with the indie bookstores and the MFA professors and the Bluesky-posting scolds with literary friends and Free Palestine in their bios , or you 're aligned with some coalition of anti-woke gazillionaires ( despite , if you 're a working writer , not being a gazillionaire or close yourself ) , woke-but-for-this-issue influencers , and genuinely terrified Jews who are neither rich nor anti-woke but do n't know where else to turn . The cringe expression , politically homeless , comes to mind , but it is n't quite that . Some of these are writers who just want to write , and not to have to function as poorly informed experts on geopolitics . <p> Hal Niedzviecki spent 30 years building a magazine and trade show , only to have it torn down by a woke anti-Israel mobhttps : //t.co/LNUHeipAYI <p> Witness the recent debacle at Broken Pencil , the small-press literary magazine founded in 1995 by Hal Niedzviecki as a platform to champion the then-exploding culture of homemade print media -- generally called zines -- tethered to an anti-establishment worldview . The publisher never considered feelings about antisemitism and the Middle East to be part of his role , but Niedzviecki 's refusal to turn his project into a site of anti-Israel activism put him at odds with current expectations : <p> " Recent events , including online harassment over my personal beliefs , a petition demanding that I resign from the publication I founded , that the magazine formally support the boycott , divest and sanction Israel movement and devote an entire issue to the conflict in Gaza , and the withdrawal of authors and sponsors from our Canzine festivals in Ottawa and Toronto , are emblematic of a broader issue , " he wrote in a closing statement . <p> " This cultural environment has become incompatible with the values of free speech , independent thought , and meaningful dialogue . " <p> But there 's currently no such thing as a zine existing entirely out of politics . Anything literary that is however indirectly connected with ' Zionism ' in its loosest possible definition is tainted . Remember the independent literary magazine Guernica ? Remember the book Tablets Shattered ? ( If not , their surrounding culture-war battles have been dissected during the past year on the podcast Bonjour Chai . ) There 's the added irony of a purity-politics antizionism backfiring and amounting to the silencing of voices most critical of Israel . <p> Montreal 's Documentary Festival canceled a screening of " Rule of Stone , " about the architecture of occupation , under pressure from anti-Zionist organizations who objected to the featuring of a Jewish Israeli filmmaker . This statement has since disappeared from their website. **26;1489;TOOLONG <p> There is n't an art for art 's sake alternative . If you say that 's your deal , that you 're just trying to write the stories you 're burning to tell , then one side or the other -- or maybe both -- will cast you as an enemy agent , callously indifferent to dead and maimed Gazan children , or disloyal to the existentially threatened Jewish people . <p> *** <p> If you 're not on board with a literary world that 's all about things like the From the River to the Sea colouring book ( a real thing sold at a retailer near me ) , you can instead align yourself with Indigo over your local independent bookstore , and with a burgeoning literary-world anti-antisemitism movement . You can patronize Starbucks over the more charming coffee shop down the street that has a donate-to-Palestine option . Corporate or cool . What if you 're neither ? What if you just want to write ? <p> Well , you can side with Zibby Owens , an author and bookfluencer -- and daughter of Republican billionaire Stephen Allen Schwarzman -- who put together an anthology called On Being Jewish Now . Why is reality TV icon Jill Zarin , of Real Housewives fame , being published alongside critic Daphne Merkin ? Who are these 75 contributors , apart from being Jewish , largely female , and well-connected enough to be asked to contribute . What do they have in common ? What do they represent ? <p> Zibby Owens will be in Toronto on Dec. 11 . ( Not paid advertising ! ) <p> I have not ( yet ? ) read it , but feel confident in saying that an anthology of writers and non-writers where everyone had three weeks to compose their contribution ( three weeks also spent , presumably , doing whatever else they have to do ) is going to be a different category , literarily , than Philip Roth . It 's to be judged as an activist effort more than an artistic one . Insofar as these can be separated . <p> There are the literary magazines that wo n't taint themselves with ' Zionists ' however defined ( is this ever defined ? ) and the ones that pop up in response . The endless forum discussions about how to publish in these times if you 're Jewish , if your work is identifiably Jewish , if you are known to be a supporter of Israel . <p> An apparatus of institutions is emerging or re-energizing . A Jewish identity-based literary sphere , with motifs familiar from identity lit more commonly associated with the left , but affiliated with the centre or right . There is the newly formed Substack-hosted Judith Magazine . Canada 's own Nora Gold runs a journal called Jewish Fiction . There are The Artists Against Antisemitism , presupposing , in its name , the artists in favour of it . It seems like you could be an Artist Against Antisemitism and an Artist 4 Ceasefire -- war and antisemitism , not good things ! -- but can you , though ? <p> And what if you just want to be an artist ? <p> At a moment when all art is interpreted as engag ? , and when there is only one issue to be engaged about , Jewish writers who just want to write are in a weird spot . This time around , the pressure comes from within the community and outside of it , going in different directions .
