<p> WEST HOLLYWOOD , CALIFORNIA - NOVEMBER 14 : ( L-R ) Actors Noah Beck and James Van Der Beek attend the Los Angeles premiere of Tubi 's " Sidelined : The QB And Me " at The London West Hollywood at Beverly Hills on November 14 , 2024 in West Hollywood , California . ( Photo by Michael Tullberg/Getty Images ) <p> After James Van Der Beekrevealed earlier this month that he has been diagnosed with colorectal cancer , we now get to see the Dawson 's Creek alum share his acting talent with a new generation in the Tubi movie Sidelined : The QB and Me . Van Der Beek plays the father of football player Drayton , played by TikTok sensation turned actor Noah Beck . <p> Van Der Beek 's character is particularly harsh and cruel when it comes to his son 's football future . But 23-year-old Beck , who 's starring in his first feature film , learned a lot from the veteran actor . <p> " James is amazing and playing opposite of him , you have no choice but to be in the moment with him , " Beck told Yahoo Canada . " He will literally just pull you back in with his gaze . " <p> " I could n't have been luckier with my first on-screen dad . ... He was amazing and I truly just learned so much from him . Those were very intense , fun , sad scenes , ... those were some exhausting days with him on set , but the best . " <p> Watch : ' Sidelined : The QB and Me ' : Noah Beck was ' craving ' collaboration after ' solitary ' TikTok success , leading to first movie role <h> ' I was craving something a bit more fulfilling ' <p> Sharing the screen with not only Van Der Beek , but Canadian icon Deborah Cox , Riverdale star Drew Ray Tanner and No Good Nick actor Siena Agudong , Beck stressed that he was " craving " a collaborative project , after rising to fame as a TikTok personality . <p> " You 're kind of solitary , and it 's you and a camera , and at any moment of the day you can make a 15-second video and then post it , and it can get millions of views , or it can not , " Beck said . " I think creatively I was craving something a bit more fulfilling , and I think I needed that through collaboration . " <p> The Canadian director of Sidelined : The QB and Me , Justin Wu , had brief apprehensions working with a first-time actor and known social media personality . But any doubts quickly disappeared when he met Beck . <p> " What Noah brings the table is his natural charisma , his energy , his personality . It 's so vivacious , it 's so personable , " Wu said . " What I just did was to kind of take that aspect of Noah and imbue Drayton with those aspects , but to also challenge him as a person to experience different things , to open his eyes to different lives , different things that would enhance and give the character more depth . " <p> " Drayton is secretly grieving over someone and Noah himself may not have had that experience , but there are so many different ways you can just empathize . ... What Noah did so well is be determined , disciplined , really curious . Wants to learn and grow as an artist . And I was just so attracted by that . I was just so happy that he was so dedicated to it , and so all the fears I had of working with a personality that 's so strong as himself online , and known for that personality , all disappeared . " <p> Dawson 's Creek star James Van Der Beek is selling autographed and limited edition Varsity Blues-themed merchandise to raise money for cancer expenses for both himself and other families . " Merch drop ! Excited to celebrate the 25th anniversary of #VarsityBlues with a limited edition #4 Moxon jersey -- each one personally autographed by me , " Van Der Beek announced in an Instagram post that ... <p> A Calgary mother and father say they 're forced to chose between buying Christmas gifts and paying for diabetes medication for their children , and they 're pleading with the Alberta government to hammer out a deal with Ottawa on the federal pharmacare program.The Pharmacare Act , which lays the groundwork for a universal program in Canada , became law in October . The first phase is intended to provide some diabetes medication and contraceptives for free to Canadians , through individual agreements wi <p> Fiorentina midfielder Edoardo Bove is in a medically induced coma after collapsing on the field during his team 's Serie A match at home to Inter Milan on Sunday , with the game abandoned shortly afterward . Bove 's teammates immediately called for medical help and both sets of players surrounded the 22-year-old while he was being treated before he was swiftly stretchered off to an ambulance near the pitch and taken to Careggi Hospital in Florence . " Fiorentina and the Careggi University Hospital announce that the footballer Edoardo Bove ... is currently under pharmacological sedation and hospitalized in intensive care , " Fiorentina said in a statement . <p> TOPEKA , Kan . ( AP ) -- A white ex-police detective in Kansas died Monday in an apparent suicide just before the start of his criminal trial over allegations that he sexually assaulted Black women and terrorized those who tried fight back . <p> Ontario has launched a multimillion-dollar U.S. ad campaign touting economic and cultural ties between the province and its southern neighbour as Canada faces the threat of 25 per cent tariffs enacted by president-elect Donald Trump . " For generations , this ally to the north has been by your side : Ontario , Canada , a partner connected by shared history , shared values and a shared vision for what we can achieve together , " a narrator says over new and archival video featuring shared landmarks like Ni <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> Kevin Desylva and Reah Palmer never imagined they would end up homeless . But after 32 years together , the couple found themselves trying anything to make it through each day . " We 've never experienced homelessness , we 've never been around it , " Desylva said . " Everything about it was new to us , the people , the atmosphere -- it 's rough . " There was a time , he said , when the pair were living in Chipman area of what is now Grand Lake . Palmer was working three jobs , and Desylva stayed home to look after hi
