<p> Unless you 're too busy rushing to class , you may have noticed the clusters of swastikas appearing on the edges of the UTSG campus -- some near Queen 's Park and others at the intersections of Bloor and St. George Street . As a Jewish student at U of T , it 's impossible to look away . <p> I first started seeing them two years ago , but I 've seen this occurring sporadically on campus since at least 2016 . I have noticed a pattern : the swastikas often appear on top of socialist or leftist-issue posters and at the very edge of campus . Their placement may be a purposeful strategy , both to catch students ' attention and frustrate any attempts at stopping the perpetrators . Whenever I notify the administration , I am told that while the symbols arenear campus , they are technically on city property and the university 's ability to intervene is limited . <p> I argue that U of T is not only ineffective in addressing real antisemitism , but also , by targeting student activists , perpetuates a culture that normalizes hate , fosters an unsafe campus for everyone , and distracts from genuine efforts to combat antisemitism . <h> Antisemitism and hate : past and present <p> Despite U of T President Meric Gertler and his administration claiming to care about antisemitism , the issue of antisemitic graffiti continues to fall through the cracks . When I finally contacted Campus Safety , I was told that they would notify the City to have them removed . Yet , rather than U of T taking a proactive approach , it falls on Jewish students like me to report these incidents . Besides , I 've already been covering them up myself . <p> When confronting Nazi symbols , we must remember their history . Nazi ideology was not limited to anti-Jewish sentiment ; it also perpetuated anti-queer , anti-racialized minority , and pro-genocide rhetoric . Nazi propagandist Wolfgang Diewerge wrote in 1941 , " It is a matter of who shall live in Europe in the future : the white race with its cultural values ... or Jewish subhumanity ruling over the stupid , joyless , enslaved masses doomed to death . " <p> In October 2023 , Nissim Vaturi , a member of the far-right Likud party led by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , wrote in Hebrew on X , " Erase Gaza . Nothing else will satisfy us . It is not acceptable that we have a terrorist authority next to Israel . Do not leave a child there , expel all the remaining ones at the end , so that they will not have a resurrection . " <p> It is undeniable that antisemitism is on the rise in Canada , with antisemitism accounting for 56 per cent of reported hate incidents in early 2024 . However , in a world where Israeli soldiers draw the Star of David on destroyed Palestinian homes , carrying out institutional and state-sanctioned violence against pro-Palestine supporters in the name of protecting the Jewish people does n't make us safe . On the contrary , I argue that it lowers our guard against the violent ideologies and actions of those who target marginalized groups . This could ultimately lead to actual antisemitism being dismissed or not taken seriously . <h> More Links <h> Follow Us <h> Newsletter <p> Subscribe to our newsletter to receive news and updates directly from The Varsity . <p> Email <p> We would like to acknowledge that The Varsity 's office is built on the traditional territory of several First Nations , including the Huron-Wendat , the Petun First Nations , the Seneca , and most recently , the Mississaugas of the Credit . Journalists have historically harmed Indigenous communities by overlooking their stories , contributing to stereotypes , and telling their stories without their input . Therefore , we make this acknowledgement as a starting point for our responsibility to tell those stories more accurately , critically , and in accordance with the wishes of Indigenous peoples .
