<p> The report from three years ago recommends a nation-to-nation review of gaps in Indigenous youth mental health services , as well as transparency on the province 's spending for First Nations youth mental health . <p> The report 's 13 recommendations are categorized into 20 monitorable recommendations , with eight found to be " somewhat implemented " and 12 having " no action taken . " <p> " The crisis is real and the response at this point , to be blunt , has been profoundly underwhelming , " says Lamrock . " At some point one either accepts that we need a distinct process to deal with the crisis in First Nations communities or we do not , and that dividing line I think really animates the report . My submission respectfully to the legislature is that we do , and we have not had one . " <p> Lamrock says a set of transitional recommendations from Monday 's update " will hopefully restart this process with good faith and trust and rebuild between the parties . " <p> " I can tell you that anybody who thinks you can simply attack this problem by saying , ' take the strategy for the whole province and add Aboriginal people , ' probably has not reflected long enough on the very unique causes and the very unique challenges in a lot of First Nations communities . " <p> Transitional recommendations from Monday 's update includes having a dedicated line item in the upcoming provincial budget for First Nations mental health . In statements Monday , Minister responsible for Addictions and Mental Health Services Rob McKee and Minister of Indigenous Affairs Keith Chiasson do n't make any specific commitment to that recommendation . <p> McKee says the implementation of other specific transitional recommendations is underway , including an invitation to First Nations leaders to create a bilateral forum to achieve " culturally safe and equitable health care for Indigenous people in New Brunswick . " <p> Former Lieutenant Governor Graydon Nicholas , who attended Monday 's update at the provincial legislature , says there 's been decades of transfer payments meant for First Nations initiatives that never arrived in those communities . <p> " Our money has not been spent for our people , and that 's not right , " says Nicholas . <p> Roxanne Sappier , chair of the First Nations Advisory Council , says she 's optimistic about the report 's recommendations going forward with a change in the provincial government this past fall . <p> " I think we 're hopeful that we 're going to see some progress moving forward now , where perhaps we were n't making the gains , we were hoping for with the last government , " says Sappier . <p> The official opposition 's critic for mental health and addictions says he 's unsure why there was limited to no action recorded from the previous Progressive Conservative government . <p> " I would n't want to guess the answers to things that are sometimes complicated , " says Rob Weir , who was first elected a PC MLA in October 's election . " I will guarantee that moving forward I will be an advocate for paying attention to the issues we 're having and solving the problems moving forward . " <p> Lamrock made comment on Monday about the difficulty his office had in getting clear answers from government departments on the status of recommendations . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday .
