<h> How did the disbandment of Ports Canada Police affect the illegal drug trade ? <p> CBC <p> December 2 , 2024 at 3:24 p.m . <p> The threat of tariffs by U.S. president-elect Donald Trump and his talk of securing borders from the movement of drugs has some politicians calling to bring back police at Canadian ports . The Ports Canada Police was dismantled in 1997 , a move that then attorney general Ujjal Dosanjh says was dangerous and reckless in terms of policing large-scale crimes . <h> Latest Stories <p> President-elect Donald Trump this week cited drugs as a reason for his threat of crushing U.S. tariffs on Canadian imports . " This Tariff will remain in effect until such time as Drugs , in particular Fentanyl , and all Illegal Aliens stop this Invasion of our Country ! " Trump wrote on his social media platform Truth Social.Canadian politicians have correctly pointed out that Canada and fellow tariff victim Mexico have little in common when it comes to the flow of illegal drugs ( or migrants ) . But it 's <p> The Cheam and Sqw ? First Nations in the Fraser Valley are sounding the alarm for the second time in a few months about mysterious discharge flowing into the Hope Slough in Chilliwack , B.C. , that they say is toxic . Cheam First Nation biologist Mike Pearson said the cloudy , foaming substance running through a ditch into the main stem of the slough smells like a combination of chemicals and sewage . " It 's distressing from an environmental point of view and from a human health point of view , " he said . <p> MADD Canada launched its provincial school campaign for P.E.I. on Monday.Students at Charlottetown Rural were the first to take part . They saw a presentation that includes a short film on the impact and consequences of impaired driving . Dawn Regan , chief operating officer for MADD Canada , hopes it made an impression . " We hope that this message is something that kids take away , that they learn what to do when they 're faced with impaired driving -- that they make the smart choice and not drive impai <p> Calgarians can expect a bit of a reprieve from cold temperatures this week.After a blast of winter weather hit the city for the last half of November -- complete with -- 20 C nights and frost-coated branches -- experts say the first week of December will bring balmier temperatures . " This warmth looks like it 's probably going to persist at least seven to 10 days , " weather expert and freelance climate journalist Kyle Brittain told CBC Radio 's the Calgary Eyeopener on Monday . " Some of those side roads m <p> There was a lack of oversight of a federal pandemic loan program to help small businesses , Auditor General Karen Hogan said in a report released Monday . She also found gaps in defence procurement policy , and questioned metrics on funds for seniors . <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told Donald Trump that Americans would also suffer if the president-elect follows through on a plan to impose sweeping tariffs on Canadian products , a Canadian minister who attended their recent dinner said Monday . Trump threatened to impose tariffs on products from Canada and Mexico if they do n't stop what he called the flow of drugs and migrants across their borders with the United States . <p> Parliament 's Natural Resources committee voted unanimously Monday to call on Paper Excellence owner Jackson Wijaya to testify , following news that he is assuming sole control of controversial pulp and paper giant Asia Pulp and Paper from his father.New Democrat MP Charlie Angus said he wants the committee to hear from Wijaya as well as Canadian government officials who said there was no connection between Asia Pulp and Paper and Paper Excellence , which was recently rebranded as Domtar . " Asia Pulp <p> Former Conservative leadership candidate Patrick Brown says he will appear before a House committee looking into foreign interference.The House of Commons standing committee on public safety and national security is looking into allegations that agents of the Government of India have engaged in electoral interference and criminal activities in Canada . Last week , MPs on that committee summoned Brown , currently mayor of Brampton , Ont. , after he declined previous invitations.In a social media post <p> After months of preparations , the search for the bodies of two slain Indigenous women began at Manitoba 's Prairie Green landfill Monday morning . Premier Wab Kinew said the " consistency and condition " of the first batch of waste material searched could help the 45-team search crew " potentially " identify remains . <p> The campaign for Liberal Leader Zach Churchill has requested a judicial recount following his defeat in last week 's provincial election , although his official agent does not expect the result to change.Churchill lost by 14 votes in the electoral district of Yarmouth to Progressive Conservative challenger Nick Hilton . It was one of 14 seats the Liberals dropped in the election , which saw them fall to third place with just two seats in the Nova Scotia Legislature.David Sollows , Churchill 's officia <p> MONTREAL -- A prominent polling analyst says Quebec 's governing party would be reduced to fewer than 10 seats in the provincial legislature if an election were held today , based on current poll numbers . <p> Britney Spears is celebrating her 43rd birthday officially as a single woman . The pop star , whose birthday is Dec. 2 , was declared legally single by the state of California seven months after finalizing her divorce from ex-husband Sam Asghari . The required six-month waiting period following the former couple reaching a settlement in May after 14 months of marriage is over , according to Rolling ... <p> A former Israeli defense minister has accused Israel of committing war crimes and ethnic cleansing in the Gaza Strip , drawing a sharp rebuke from government ranks . Moshe Yaalon , a hawkish former general , told Israeli media that hardliners in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's far-right cabinet were looking to chase Palestinians from northern Gaza and wanted to re-establish Jewish settlements there . <p> She is the definitive pop star of the ' 90s and an innovator in videos , singles and stage performances . But , despite her global success , Britney Spears has led a tumultuous life . And on her 43rd birthday she is once again a single woman !
