<h> Bios <h> Sections <h> U.S. Supreme Court wrestles with FDA denial of flavored vape products <p> A person poses for a photograph as they vape in Melbourne , March 23 , 2023 . Recreational vaping will be banned as the government seeks to prevent the next generation of nicotine addicts , Australia 's Health Minister Mark Butler said on Tuesday , May 2 , 2023 . ( Diego Fedele/AAP Image via AP ) <p> Share <p> WASHINGTON - <p> The U.S. Supreme Court examined on Monday the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 's refusal to let two e-cigarette companies sell flavored vape products that regulators consider a health risk to youths , while the lawyer for the businesses suggested President-elect Donald Trump could steer a different course . <p> The justices heard arguments in an appeal filed by the FDA under outgoing Democratic President Joe Biden 's administration of a lower court 's decision that the agency had failed to follow proper legal procedures under federal law when it rejected the applications to sell these nicotine-containing products . <p> This is the latest case in which the justices are scrutinizing actions by a U.S. regulatory agency , with the Republican Trump due to take office on Jan. 20 with a promise of broad deregulation . <p> Eric Heyer , the lawyer for e-cigarette liquid makers Triton Distribution and Vapetasia , suggested that Trump 's return could prompt a shift in the U.S. government 's approach to flavored vape products . Heyer alluded to Trump 's vow during his campaign to " save vaping , " despite having supported a ban on flavored vaping products during his first presidential administration . <p> " We have a new administration coming in . The president-elect is on record saying , I 'm going to save flavored vapes , " Heyer said . " We do n't know exactly what that 's going to look like . " <p> E-cigarettes of various flavors are still easily available despite being illegal . <p> Triton and Vapetasia filed FDA applications in 2020 for products with flavors including sour grape , pink lemonade and cr ? me brulee , and names including " Jimmy The Juice Man Peachy Strawberry " and " Suicide Bunny Mother 's Milk and Cookies " - offerings that critics have said were designed to appeal to minors . <p> Some of the justices appeared skeptical of the contention by Triton and Vapetasia that the FDA improperly assessed their applications under a regulatory standard that differed from published guidance that the companies had relied upon . <p> Liberal Justice Elena Kagan told Heyer that the FDA had been " completely upfront " about its regulatory approach . <p> " So I guess I 'm not really seeing what the surprise is here , or what the change is here , " Kagan said . " Everybody basically knows that flavors are particularly dangerous in terms of kids starting the use of smoking products . " <p> Conservative Justice Amy Coney Barrett expressed concern to Heyer that his position could require courts to defer to an applicant 's interpretation of FDA guidance when a company is in a dispute with the agency . <p> An FDA rule that took effect in 2016 under Democratic President Barack Obama deemed e-cigarettes to be tobacco products that , like traditional cigarettes , are subject to agency review under a 2009 federal law called the Tobacco Control Act . The law requires manufacturers of e-cigarette products to apply for authorization to sell nicotine vaping devices and e-liquids . <p> The Triton and Vapetasia applications were denied , as were hundreds of others by various companies involving more than a million flavored vape products . <p> To secure regulatory approval , e-cigarette companies must show their product would be " appropriate for the protection of the public health , " meaning any health benefits - like helping traditional cigarette smokers transition to generally less-harmful vaping - must outweigh the risks of bringing the new product to market . <h> ' ATTRACTIVE TO YOUTH ' <p> Conservative Justice Clarence Thomas asked Curtis Gannon , the Justice Department lawyer arguing for the FDA , to address the claim by the companies that the FDA 's requirements were " actually a moving target . " <p> " They knew throughout that FDA was concerned about the fact that flavors are attractive to youth , " Gannon said . <p> " The concern would be that they 're getting addicted to ... nicotine at a time when nicotine is dangerous to their developing brains and may be , you know , sentencing them to a long life of needing to satisfy that addiction , " Gannon added later in the arguments . <p> The FDA found that nearly one in five high school students and one in 20 middle school students used e-cigarettes in 2020 . <p> The FDA has approved only 34 flavored e-cigarette varieties , all tobacco or menthol flavored . The agency maintains that it has not categorically banned flavored e-cigarette products . But <p> companies face a particularly demanding health benefits-versus-risk legal test due to the FDA 's finding that flavored e-cigarettes pose a " known and substantial risk " to youth . <p> Triton and Vapetasia in 2021 asked the New Orleans-based 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to review the FDA 's denial of their applications . <p> In January , the 5th Circuit ruled that the FDA had been arbitrary and capricious , in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act , by denying the applications without considering plans by the companies to prevent underage access and use . Seven other federal appellate courts had sided with the FDA in similar cases . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of the Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office there will be " HELL TO PAY . " <p> British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said on Monday stepping up support for Ukraine was essential to put the country in the strongest position for peace talks as he conceded in the clearest terms there could be a negotiated end to the war . <p> As the size of a person 's belly grows , the memory centre of their brain shrinks and beta amyloid and tau may appear -- all of this occurring as early as a person 's 40s and 50s , well before any cognitive decline is apparent , according to new research . <p> The U.S. Supreme Court examined on Monday the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 's refusal to let two e-cigarette companies sell flavored vape products that regulators consider a health risk to youths , while the lawyer for the businesses suggested President-elect Donald Trump could steer a different course . <p> The Toronto Zoo has been making a gradual , yet seismic shift towards prioritizing conservation and climate-change , focusing on breeding rare and endangered animals in the past few years . But critics say the zoo should focus all its resources on breeding animals for eventual release instead of keeping animals in captivity for display . <p> The British Columbia Securities Commission has fined a cryptocurrency trading platform and its director more than $18 million after finding the company lied to its customers by diverting nearly $13 million of their investments into gambling websites and personal accounts . <p> Actor James Van Der Beek said he is selling signed ' Varsity Blues ' merchandise to help families struggling with the cost of cancer treatments , following his revelation last month of his own cancer diagnosis . <p> Harvey Weinstein was hospitalized Monday following an ' alarming blood test , ' his attorney said , less than a week after he filed a legal claim alleging substandard medical care at New York City 's notorious jail complex . <p> Slippery or snow-covered roads , reduced visibility and bitter cold are all conditions that can make driving difficult and even dangerous during cold weather months . CAA spoke with CTV Morning Live this week on some of the best ways you can winterize your car . <p> Saskatchewan received yet more snow as winter continues to ramp up on the prairies . With the increased precipitation , communities have recorded dipping temperatures -- with a handful breaking or tying longstanding records . <p> It 's considered lucky to live to be 100 , but often when you hit that milestone , you 're faced with significant mobility issues . Not Winnipeg 's Jack Mudry . The centenarian regularly walks five blocks to get where he wants to go , the care home where his wife Stella lives . <p> Metrolinx CEO Phil Verster is stepping down . Verster tendered his resignation on Monday in order to take a new position and will leave his role as CEO of the provincial transit agency as early as Dec. 16 . <p> The investigation into a Chinook helicopter crash near Petawawa , Ont. that killed two military pilots concludes an ' unperceived acceleration ' and environmental conditions were " significant contributors " to the crash in the Ottawa River . <p> The City of Ottawa 's auditor general has found that a city employee was engaged in a kickback scheme with a group of four local landlords , collecting thousands of dollars in payments in exchange for more favourable rental rates under specific housing benefit programs administered by the city . <p> New numbers from the Canadian Federation of Independent Business ( CFIB ) show small businesses throughout the country are losing $76 million a day because of the strike , and the total losses will hit $1 billion by Wednesday . <p> As the lengthy bush bash shooting trial resumed this week , the day started with a stunning admission from defence lawyer Ricardo Golec , who represents the accused in this case , 23-year-old Carlos Guerra Guerra . <p> With winter approaching quickly , worry is settling in that the cold weather could soon turn deadly , prompting a Chatham homeless centre to extend their overnight hours early while waiting for proper approvals and financial commitments .
