<p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- Hezbollah fired into a disputed border zone held by Israel on Monday after multiple Israeli strikes inside Lebanon since a ceasefire took hold last week . The militant group said the volley , its first during the truce , was a warning shot in response to what it called repeated Israeli violations . <p> Israeli leaders threatened to retaliate and within hours , Israel 's military carried out a string of strikes in southern Lebanon , including five hits in the al-Tuffah region , Lebanese state media reported . There was no immediate word on casualties or what was struck . Israeli strikes in Lebanon in recent days have killed at least four people and wounded others . <p> The attacks have further strained the fragile U.S.- and French-brokered ceasefire , which began Wednesday and calls for a 60-day halt in fighting . It aims to end more than a year of war between Hezbollah and Israel that 's part of a wider regional conflict sparked by the devastating Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . <p> Lebanon 's parliament speaker , Nabih Berri , accused Israel of violating the truce more than 50 times in recent days , with strikes , demolition of homes near the border and overflight of drones . <p> Israel has said its strikes were in response to unspecified Hezbollah violations , and that under the ceasefire deal it reserves the right to retaliate . <p> The Israeli military said Hezbollah launched two projectiles on Monday toward Mount Dov , a disputed Israeli-held territory known as Shebaa Farms in Lebanon , where the borders of Lebanon , Syria , and Israel meet . Israel said the projectiles fell in open areas and no injuries were reported . <p> Hezbollah said in a statement that it fired on an Israeli military position in the area as a " defensive and warning response " after what it called " repeated violations " of the ceasefire deal by Israel . It said complaints to mediators tasked with monitoring the ceasefire " were futile in stopping these violations . " <p> Officials in the United States -- which along with France heads a commission meant to monitor adherence to the deal -- played down the significance of Israeli strikes . White House national security spokesman John Kirby said , " Largely speaking , the ceasefire is holding . " <p> " We 've gone from dozens of strikes down to one a day maybe two a day , " Kirby told reporters , referring to Israeli strikes . " We 're going to keep trying and see what we can do to get it down to zero . " <p> Israel threatens retaliation <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the Hezbollah fire was " a serious violation " and vowed , " Israel will respond forcefully . " Defense Minister Israel Katz said the volley " will be met with a harsh response . " <p> Under the ceasefire deal , Iran-backed Hezbollah has 60 days to withdraw its fighters and infrastructure from southern Lebanon , pulling back north of the Litani River , which is about 30 kilometers ( 18 miles ) from the Israeli-Lebanese border . During that time , Israeli troops are also to withdraw to their side of the border . <p> On Monday before the Hezbollah fire , Israeli carried out at least four airstrikes and an artillery barrage around southern Lebanon , including a drone strike that killed a person on a motorcycle , according to Lebanese state media . Another strike killed a corporal in the Lebanese security services . The Israeli military said it carried out operations in the south against Hezbollah militants , " thwarting threats to Israeli civilians , " without elaborating . <p> Another drone strike Monday hit a Lebanese army bulldozer , wounding a soldier , in the northeastern town of Hermel -- far north of the Litani River . The Israeli military said it hit military vehicles operating " in the area of a Hezbollah missile manufacturing site . " <p> The Lebanese army , which stayed on the sidelines of the Israel-Hezbollah fighting , is supposed to deploy additional troops in the south alongside U.N . peacekeepers to ensure Hezbollah 's withdrawal from the area . An Israeli strike on Saturday in the southern Marjayoun area killed two people , according to state media . <p> In a video statement , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said Israel was striking Hezbollah fighters in the south when they are identified or seen attempting to move weapons . <p> " Their presence south of the Litani River is the most basic violation of the understandings ... They must move north immediately , " he said , despite the 60-day period the deal gives for a pullback . <p> Fears of hunger mount in Gaza <p> In Gaza , meanwhile , alarm over increasing hunger was growing . The amount of food allowed in by Israel has plunged over the past two months , compounded by a decision Sunday by the U.N . to halt aid deliveries from the main crossing into the territory because of the threat of armed gangs looting convoys . <p> Muhannad Hadi , the U.N . humanitarian coordinator for the occupied Palestinian Territories , warned on Monday of " severe hunger surging " in central and southern Gaza as well . Speaking at a conference in Cairo aimed at increasing aid , he said more than 1 million people have not received their monthly food rations since July . <p> Israel 's campaign in Gaza , triggered by Hamas ' Oct 7 , 2023 attack on southern Israel , has driven almost the entire population of the territory from their homes . Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians now live in squalid tent camps and reliant on international aid . <p> In a tent camp in the central Gaza town of Deir al-Balah , Palestinians lined up at makeshift mud ovens trying to buy a few loaves of flatbread for their families . <p> With the price of flour mounting because of scarcity , the bakers -- women displaced from further north -- said they could bake less bread , and families could afford far less . <p> " They divide them to their children , one loaf every day , " said Wafaa al-Attar , who was selling bread she made in a clay oven . <p> A distant relative also selling bread , Enayat al-Attar , said some people cut up a single piece of flatbread among themselves . " Flour is running out for everyone , " she said . <p> The Israeli military said it allowed 40 trucks carrying 600 tons of flour for the World Food Program to enter the southern Gaza Strip on Sunday night , as well as 16 other food trucks . <p> Israel has said it is working to increase the flow of aid . November saw an increase in the average number of humanitarian trucks it let into Gaza , up to 77 daily from 57 the month before , according to official Israeli figures . <p> But the levels are still nearly the lowest of the entire 15-month war . And the U.N . says less than half of that actually reaches Palestinians because Israeli military restrictions , fighting and robberies make it too dangerous to deliver the aid . <p> On Sunday , the U.N . agency for Palestinian refugees , known as UNRWA , said it is halting aid deliveries through Kerem Shalom , the main artery for aid , because of repeated robberies . It blamed the breakdown of law and order in large part on Israeli policies .
