<p> Rashell Feldman 's characterization of justice and peace for Palestinian people as " antisemitic " is beyond non-sensical . I guess she is not aware that Palestinians are actually " semitic " . Her explanation that Palestine is not " about peace " and ( is associated with ) a terrorist organization " smacks of the dehumanization and anti-Palestinian racism that is a key determinant in the genocide of Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The employee who posted about the Nov. 29 day to stand in solidarity with Palestinians should be commended for their efforts for inclusion and belonging in the community . Instead , the YMCA decided to take down the post , thereby participating in the attempted erasure of Palestinian existence . We can only hope that the YMCA does not heed Rashell Feldman 's call to dismiss this employee . <p> Not only that , CollingwoodToday decided to publish an article that gives air time to people who believe that solidarity with Palestinians has to include mention of Israel . <p> Do we need to mention the feelings of the former enslavers when we honour Emancipation Day as well ? Does Mother 's Day have to mention fathers ? Or do these rules only apply when supporters of Israel want to hide the truth about the occupation , apartheid and genocide currently being committed in the name of their religion ? <p> Do they not realize that Palestinians lived in Palestine for thousands of years -- Muslim , Jewish , Christian -- without a problem ? And that Israel only came into existence in 1948 ? <p> Anyone who looks at this situation with a critical eye can see the truth . These ridiculous accusations make a mockery of actual antisemitism and demonstrates the extreme danger of conflating Judaism , Zionism , and the state of Israel . ( We ) can only hope that our society can emerge from this deep abyss we have fallen into -- where the existence of a people is considered more dangerous than quadcopter drones , bombs and tanks . <p> M. Chaudhuri , Orillia Durgham Darwazeh , Collingwood ( born on the West Bank of Palestine ) Suzan Abdel-Salam , Barrie ( Indigenous Palestinian , ancestors forcibly displaced from our home and never allowed to return ) M. Mohamed , Innisfil
