<p> Steve McQueen takes a very cerebral approach to his work . His films and the characters in them explore big concepts in concentrated ways : enslavement in " 12 Years A Slave , " race , gender and politics in " Widows , " and overcoming injustice in the " Small Axe " anthology . <p> That 's the same for his latest , " Blitz , " which premiered in theaters in early November and is now streaming on Apple TV+ . The film is a historical war drama that follows a 9-year-old biracial boy named George ( Elliott Heffernan ) as he journeys home to his mother ( Saoirse Ronan ) after being evacuated during Nazi Germany 's bombardment of London in 1940 . As George makes his way home , he encounters a harsh reality that he 's never faced , part of which leads him to discover his own Blackness . <p> Advertisement <p> During a Zoom interview in late October , McQueen called " Blitz " an expression of his interest in revolution . Revolution is a " big word , " he said , but he sees it as his duty . <p> " I 've got to do something different . I have to , because of who I am , what I look like , and what I owe to people who have put me in this situation where I 'm talking to you today , " he said . " It 's important that I try to tell these stories , and also not just for me and people who 've put me here , but for everybody . " <p> While researching for his " Small Axe " series , McQueen came across an old photo of a young Black boy in London . <p> It immediately brought on feelings of " protection of a sweet , beautiful Black child who was gon na be evacuated , " the director said . " Therefore , I wanted to find out who he was and I just projected a story onto him , who he was and how I could put on an act , how I could actually work with that image to tell a narrative . " <p> Advertisement <p> That photo became his catalyst for writing , directing and producing " Blitz . " McQueen emphasized that it 's an anomaly to see wartime stories set in London that depict people of color . But leaving them out is ahistoric and influences how the public sees the past . <p> " Any war reference , you 'd never see any of us in that situation , " McQueen said matter-of-factly . He recalled a Chinese man who hid underground during the war at 3 years old who thanked him for " making him visible . " <p> McQueen continued , " I was n't flexing . I was just sort of doing something ; the landscape was so rich that the fact that these things came about was only there to help me on George 's journey . " <p> In the film , a series of events transforms George 's innocence profoundly . An encounter with a West African police officer named Ife ( Benjamin Clementine ) presents young George with the part of his identity he never got to know because his Black father was deported prior to his birth . Constant negative depictions of Black people did n't help him accept his identity , either . <p> Advertisement <p> " As a Black person , we know as a child , you are asking yourself who , how , why , and what , because you 're confronted , you 're put in a position , you become criticized at a very early age , " McQueen said passionately . " You have to understand the world around you , ' cause unfortunately , it 's hostile towards you . And no different to George in 1940 . He had to understand ; he had to get the hard lessons in order to sort of find out who he was . " <p> Prior to " Blitz , " British-born McQueen directed " Occupied City , " a four-and-a-half-hour documentary that examines the Nazi occupation of Amsterdam during World War II and its lasting impact on the Dutch city , where he now lives . Asked about his focus on war films , which tend to perform well during award season , McQueen replied , " I do n't concern myself with that . " <p> " My concern is : do something hard , do something of interest , exciting for me , " he said . " And so the situation with ' Blitz ' is a case of using the sort of the so-called conventional to make something completely different . " <h> We Need Your Support <p> Other news outlets have retreated behind paywalls . At HuffPost , we believe journalism should be free for everyone . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give once or many more times , we appreciate your contribution to keeping our journalism free for all . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give just one more time or sign up again to contribute regularly , we appreciate you playing a part in keeping our journalism free for all . <p> McQueen said the film comes at an unfortunate and timely moment in history , echoing conflicts in places like Sierra Leone , Ukraine , Gaza and Lebanon . As audiences observe a war through a child 's eyes , he hopes their vision shifts . <p> " As adults in some ways , we have to clear the path for the next generation . That 's what we 're about . We wan na leave the world in a better place than we came . That 's our job . And the fact that we are not doing our job is a tragedy . But the fact of the matter is , there 's hope . I 'm just grateful that this film I made could help people refocus their gaze . "
