<h> Weather Alert <p> Slow down driving in slippery conditions . Watch for taillights ahead and maintain a safe following distance . If visibility is reduced while driving , turn on your lights and maintain a safe following distance . Winter weather travel advisory in effect for Wednesday . Hazards : Snow with accumulations near 5 cm . Reduced visibility at times in snow . Timing : Wednesday morning through Wednesday evening . Discussion : A low pressure system will bring snow to the area beginning Wednesday morning . The snow is expected to taper off Wednesday evening . ### Motorists should expect hazardous winter driving conditions and adjust travel plans accordingly . There may be a significant impact on rush hour traffic in urban areas . For road conditions and other traveller information from the Ministry of Transportation , visit https : //www.ontario.ca/511 , https : **28;2428;TOOLONG , or call 5-1-1 . Please continue to monitor alerts and forecasts issued by Environment Canada . To report severe weather , send an email to ONstorm@ec.gc.ca or tweet reports using #ONStorm . <p> Sudanese Children suffering from malnutrition are treated at an MSF clinic in Metche Camp , Chad , near the Sudanese border , Sunday , April 7 , 2024 . Many people here fled the fighting in Sudan 's vast western region of Darfur , where attacks by the Arab-dominated Rapid Support Forces on ethnic African civilians have revived memories of genocide . <p> Sudanese Children suffering from malnutrition are treated at an MSF clinic in Metche Camp , Chad , near the Sudanese border , Sunday , April 7 , 2024 . Many people here fled the fighting in Sudan 's vast western region of Darfur , where attacks by the Arab-dominated Rapid Support Forces on ethnic African civilians have revived memories of genocide . <p> Kerry Bowman teaches bioethics at the University of Toronto he has worked on several United Nations projects . Miles Abssy and Ben Rabishaw are global health research associates at University of Toronto . <p> Children never start wars , yet they pay the greatest price . I found nothing more striking than the children on my most recent trip to Sudan . To see so many frightened , malnourished and desperately sick children is haunting . To then realize that the world is essentially ignoring the humanitarian nightmare of Sudan is almost unbelievable . <p> I just returned from a displaced people 's camp in the southern region of the country , run primarily by religious groups both Christian and Muslim , where it is estimated that well over 75 per cent of those who arrived in the last 10 months are children . They arrived hungry , dehydrated , malnourished , and sick . External help is limited and receding . The people of Sudan are suffering greatly ; their suffering diminishes us all . <p> Why do we hear next to nothing about this nightmare ? <p> It is well understood that the Sudan war is occurring at a time when we are seeing some of the most consequential wars of our lives . Gaza and Ukraine hold profound implications for the world and demand significant humanitarian resources . Yet , ignoring Sudan 's conflict calls into question the very moral foundation of western cultures : a strong argument can be made that Sudan 's crisis is devastating the lives of the larger number of people than both the war in Gaza and Ukraine . Millions of people have fled the capital , Khartoum , and more than 10.7 million people have fled their homes , making Sudan the world 's largest displacement crisis . More than two million people have left the country altogether , adding refugee pressure to the neighbouring states of Chad and South Sudan , already fragile from deep political and economic struggles of their own . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> Through the lens of global health , things are grim . More than 70 per cent of health-care infrastructure in conflict zones is not operational , greatly limiting access to any form of health care . The lack of clean drinking water due to forced migration and the deleterious impacts of malnutrition on the immune system further elevates the risk of child mortality to diseases such as cholera , dengue fever and even polio . Without medical treatment or adequate food , roughly 90 per cent of children with medical complications and 20 per cent of all children with acute malnutrition are predicted to die . <p> The harsh Sudan environment further compounds the problem , as heavy rainfall and flash flooding only grows more disruptive as the climate changes . These climate shocks affect people directly , by necessitating further displacement from flooded areas , and weaken stability over the longer term by endangering crop yields amid the intensity of the current food crisis . <p> Sudan plunged into chaos in April 2023 , when long-simmering tensions between the Sudanese Armed Forces ( SAF ) and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces ( RSF ) broke out in street battles in Khartoum . Because so much of this battle is urban , fatalities have been high and infrastructure damage has been extensive . Fighting quickly spread across the country , and in Darfur it took on a deeper , ethnicity-driven form , with brutal attacks by the Arab-dominated RSF on ethnic African civilians . <p> The RSF was founded by the former Sudanese dictator Omar al-Bashir as an Arab counter-insurgency militia . First known as the Janjaweed , the RSF quickly became linked to widespread atrocities . In 2013 , Al-Bashir transformed the group into a semi-organized paramilitary force and gave its leaders military ranks before deploying them to suppress a rebellion in the region of Darfur . In 2019 , after months of citizen-lead protests , Al-Bashir was placed under house arrest . For many the ousting of President al-Bashir and birth a new Sudan was a long-held dream . Sadly , a military coup dissolved the transitional government , triggering political turmoil and war . <p> The SAF and RSF originally co-operated to oust Al-Bashir from power . But their true interest in transitioning to a democratic civilian-led government was always questionable , and when democratic negotiations faltered , a showdown between the two forces emerged . Now , millions of Sudanese people face societal collapse , displacement and the threat of death . <p> On the global front , voices of those able or willing to harness our collective humanity for the common good are in short supply . This has not always been the case . Through a historic lens , this indifference to such atrocity is a recent development . Thirty years ago , the Rwandan genocide and war was a great failure of Western moral priorities and policy -- yet , it contributed to the birth of The Responsibility to Protect ( R2P ) . The R2P is aglobal principle grounded in the protection of populations from genocide , war crimes , crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing , adopted by UN World Summit in 2005 . At this time , there appears to be no evidence of this mandate for Sudan at all . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> Two decades ago , Darfur , a state in Sudan , became synonymous with genocide and war crimes , particularly by the notorious Janjaweed Arab militias against ethnic populations identifying as Central or East African . These atrocities lead to directives from the International Criminal Court and multiple campus protests in Western nations . The media followed , Darfur was steadily on the agenda of President ( George W. ) Bush in the United States , Prime Minister Tony Blair in London , the Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin as well as many other heads of state . Celebrities got in front of this issue . In turn , the world was made aware . There was pressure to take action . Now there is little to no public , political or media attention to this at all . This is a moral failure . <p> In the West , we often say that the core of why we help others and strive to end wars is grounded in respect for human life and decency . If this is true , we are rapidly losing ground and drifting into the dangerous realm of moral inconsistency and indifference . By ignoring such a massive human catastrophe , we run the risk of accepting a general global decline in humanitarian standards we have long fought hard to preserve . All human suffering matters . It has been a constant in the human story . Sometimes it overlaps with our interests , and sometimes it does not . If our sense of morality does not hold constant , it suggests it is not there at all . <p> We need to cultivate global compassion . The only ethical way to do this is to lead with needs , and needs alone , that will clarify who gets attention , aid , and resources . Simply waiting for governments and international bodies to respond is inadequate . People from all walks of life must push our governments and global bodies . We must all demand better for Sudan , and for ourselves . <p> Kerry Bowman teaches bioethics at the University of Toronto he has worked on several United Nations projects . Miles Abssy and Ben Rabishaw are global health research associates at University of Toronto . <p> Opinion articles are based on the author 's interpretations and judgments of facts , data and events . More details <p> I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use.This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration . You will also be signed up for the St. Catharines Standard 's free morning newsletter . You may unsubscribe at any time . <p> Secure transaction.Secure transaction . Cancel anytime . <h> You 're all set ! <p> Thank you . <p> Your gift purchase was successful ! Your purchase was successful , and you are now logged in . You will also start receiving the St. Catharines Standard 's free morning newsletter soon .
