<p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israeli aircraft struck a sprawling tent camp housing displaced Palestinians in Gaza on Wednesday , killing at least 21 people , according to a local health official , setting off fires in the coastal tent city that Israel has designated a humanitarian zone but which has been repeatedly targeted . <p> The Israeli military said it struck senior Hamas militants " involved in terrorist activities " in the area , without providing additional details , and said it took precautions to minimize harm to civilians . <p> The strikes were the latest deadly assault in the war-wracked Gaza Strip , where Israel 's offensive against Hamas is nearly 14 months old and showing no end in sight , despite international efforts to revive negotiations toward a ceasefire . <p> The Biden administration has pledged to make a new push to get a ceasefire for Gaza after Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah agreed to end more than a year of cross-border fighting . And President-elect Donald Trump demanded in a social media post this week the release of hostages held by Hamas before he is sworn into office in January . <p> The strike Wednesday in Muwasi , a desolate area with few public services that holds hundreds of thousands of displaced people , also wounded at least 28 people , according to Atif Al-Hout , the director of Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis . <p> An Associated Press journalist at the hospital counted at least 15 bodies , but he said reaching a precise number was difficult because many of the dead were dismembered , some without heads or badly burned . <p> Videos and photos shared widely on social media showed flames and a column of black smoke rising into the night sky , as well as twisted metal tent frames and shredded fabric . Palestinian men searched through the still-burning wreckage , shouting " Over here guys ! " Further away , civilians stood at a distance , observing the destruction . <p> The military said the strikes had set off secondary explosions , indicating explosives present in the area had detonated . It was not possible to independently confirm the Israeli claims , and the strikes could also have ignited fuel , cooking gas canisters or other materials in the camp . <p> The strikes followed earlier Israeli attacks on other parts of the Gaza Strip that killed eight people , four of them children , according to Palestinian medics . The military said it had struck " terrorist targets " in a series of strikes . <p> On Wednesday , Israel said its forces recovered the body of one hostage who was captured alive during Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack that sparked the war , yet who Israel believes was killed by his captors . Israel believes about a third of the remaining 100 hostages are dead . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in Gaza , mostly women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> Israel says it tries to avoid harming civilians and blames Hamas for their deaths because the militants often operate in residential areas and are known to position tunnels , rocket launchers and other infrastructure near homes , schools and mosques . <p> The United States , Qatar and Egypt have spent much of the past year trying to broker a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of the remaining hostages , but those efforts stalled as Israel rejected Hamas ' demand for a complete withdrawal from the territory .
