<h> Amnesty International says there is ' sufficient evidence ' to accuse Israel of genocide in Gaza <p> Nada Bashir , CNN <p> December 5 , 2024 at 12:23 p.m. *8 min read <p> Amnesty International on Wednesday said that it had gathered " sufficient evidence to believe " that Israel 's conduct during the war in Gaza amounts to genocide against the Palestinian people -- a charge the Israeli government has vehemently denied . <p> The 296-page report details evidence gathered over nine months , outlining numerous instances in which Amnesty says Israeli forces and government authorities have committed three of five acts prohibited under the United Nations ' Genocide Convention -- including the mass killing of Palestinian civilians , causing serious bodily or mental harm , and deliberately inflicting on Palestinians in Gaza conditions of life " calculated to bring about their physical destruction in whole or in part . " <p> " Month after month , Israel has treated Palestinians in Gaza as a subhuman group unworthy of human rights and dignity , demonstrating its intent to physically destroy them , " Amnesty International Secretary General Agn ? s Callamard said in a statement . <p> Amnesty said that Israel is responsible for extensive and often indiscriminate aerial and ground attacks , widespread destruction of civilian infrastructure , the forced mass displacement of Palestinians across the besieged enclave , and the obstruction of humanitarian aid . <p> " There is only one reasonable inference that can be drawn from the evidence presented : genocidal intent has been part and parcel of Israel 's conduct in Gaza since 7 October 2023 , including its military campaign , " Amnesty 's report states . <p> Israel launched the war in Gaza after Hamas-led militants carried out an attack on southern Israel on October 7 last year , killing 1,200 people and taking another 251 hostage . In a little over a year , more than 44,000 people in Gaza have been killed and 104,000 injured as a result of Israel 's ongoing military onslaught , according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health . <p> Israel 's military called Amnesty 's report " entirely baseless " and said it failed to account for the operational realities faced by Israeli soldiers within Gaza . <p> " The report 's allegations of genocide and intentional harm are not only unfounded but also ignore Hamas ' violations of international law , including its use of civilians as human shields and its deliberate targeting of Israeli civilians , " the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) said , adding that the military tries to mitigate harm to civilians . <p> While Amnesty says that it recognizes that Hamas has put Palestinian civilians in danger by operating from , or in the vicinity of , densely populated residential areas , the organization asserts that this does did not relieve Israel from its own obligations under international humanitarian law to spare civilians and avoid indiscriminate or disproportionate attacks . <p> Israeli government lawyers , speaking earlier this year at the International Court of Justice in The Hague , rejected what they called " grossly distorted " accusations of genocide leveled against it by South Africa . The lawyers argued that the convention was adopted only to " address a malevolent crime of the most exceptional circumstances , " and was " not designed to address the brutal impact of intensive hostilities " on civilians during warfare . It called South Africa 's accusation " a concerted and cynical effort to pervert the meaning of the term ' genocide ' itself . " <p> The report is the latest in a string of accusations over Israel 's conduct in Gaza . Over the weekend , former Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya'lon -- who served for three decades with the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) -- described the Israeli military 's actions in northern Gaza as " ethnic cleansing . " A United Nations Special Committee warned in November that Israel 's conduct in Gaza was " consistent with the characteristics of genocide . " And Human Rights Watch said last month that the forced mass displacement of Palestinians in Gaza amounted to a war crime and a crime against humanity . The military rejected those accusations and said its forces act within international law . <p> Amnesty 's Israel office issued a dissent , saying that it did not believe the " genocide " threshold had been reached . <p> " Many of us have doubts regarding the possibility of proving unequivocally , and beyond any reasonable alternative explanation , the element of intent , " the organization said in a statement , though it acknowledged that that was not a universal view among its staffers . It did say that there was " no dispute within the Israeli section " that Israel 's conduct in Gaza raises " suspicions of widespread violations of international law and may amount to crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing . " <p> Palestinians gather to get food at a distribution center in Deir al-Balah on November 29 . Two children and a 50-year-old woman were crushed to death . - Abdel Kareem Hana/AP <h> What constitutes a violation of the UN Genocide Convention ? <p> The 1948 UN Genocide Convention , which Israel ratified in 1950 , says that genocide has occurred when any of five prohibited acts are are carried out with the intent " to destroy in whole , or in part , a national , ethnic , racial or religious group . " <p> The organization said it believes Israel 's acts were committed with the specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza . As evidence for that , it cited calls by Israeli military and government officials for the targeting of Palestinians in Gaza using language that " equated Palestinian civilians with the enemy to be destroyed . " It also noted the use of indiscriminate weapons within densely populated areas , and actions taken by Israeli authorities to obstruct or prevent humanitarian aid from reaching the besieged enclave . <p> The investigation -- which focuses on Israel 's actions between October 7 , 2023 , and July 2024 -- examines the repeated and consistent targeting of residential buildings and civilian infrastructure in densely populated areas , including apartment buildings , religious sites , schools and markets . <p> An injured Palestinian boy at a school-turned-shelter in Nuseirat , on June 7. - Eyad Baba/AFP/Getty Images <p> Amnesty also noted the use of explosive weapons with wide area effects , such as US-manufactured Joint Direct Attack Munitions ( JDAM ) , in some cases without warning or between the hours of 11pm and 4am , when residents would likely be sleeping . <p> " Even where Israeli forces targeted what could be considered military objectives , Israel 's use of explosive weapons with wide area effects , especially aerial bombs of 250 pounds to 2,000 pounds , on residential buildings and in the proximity of hospitals in one of the world 's most densely populated areas likely constitute indiscriminate and/or disproportionate attacks , " Amnesty said . <p> In a detailed report verifying fatalities in Gaza in the first six months of the conflict , the UN Human Rights Office ( OHCHR ) said it " found close to 70 per cent to be children and women , indicating a systematic violation of the fundamental principles of international humanitarian law " on the part of the Israeli military . <p> It added that of the confirmed deaths , 80% were killed in residential buildings or similar housing , of which 44% were children and 26% were women . <p> Mourners gather next to the bodies of Palestinians killed in an Israeli strike on a house in Jabalia on November 10. - Dawoud Abu Alkas/Reuters <p> In a series of case studies examined by Amnesty , the human rights organization highlighted a deadly Israeli strike on a residential building in Rafah in December 2023 , which killed at least 30 civilians , including 11 children . Among the fatalities was three-month-old Ayla Nasman , who was killed alongside her mother , grandparents , and two siblings -- aged just five and four . Ayla 's father , Ahmad , survived the attack . He said it took him four days to retrieve Ayla 's body from the rubble , and that he found his five-year-old daughter , Arwa , had been decapitated by the blast . <p> " While Amnesty International 's investigation has focused only on a small fraction of Israel 's aerial attacks , they are indicative of a pattern of repeated direct or indiscriminate attacks by the Israeli military in Gaza over the nine-month period under review , " the organization said . <p> The report also refers to the staggering number of injuries recorded over the course of the war , which Amnesty said meets the UN convention 's criteria of causing serious bodily or mental harm . According to the UN 's World Health Organization , approximately 22,500 people were estimated to have suffered life-changing injuries requiring long-term rehabilitation by late July , with more than 3,000 limb amputations reported . Recent data from the Palestinian Ministry of Health places the total number of injuries recorded at over 100,000 . <p> As the humanitarian situation in Gaza grows more desperate , Amnesty International says Israel has brought the Palestinian population within the enclave " to the brink of collapse , " noting the " disastrous conditions " within the strip , caused by Israel 's destruction of critical infrastructure . <p> Evidence featured in the report explores the deepening hunger crisis civilians in Gaza are facing , with obstructions to vital humanitarian aid reaching the strip . According to the UN , the number of aid trucks entering Gaza was critically low in November , with the number of food trucks received last month equating to just 36% of the monthly average since 2023 . <p> Amnesty 's report also examines the forced mass displacement of Palestinians in " unsafe and inhumane conditions , " with civilians repeatedly ordered by the Israeli military to evacuate to so-called " humanitarian zones , " which offer little in the way of shelter and have repeatedly been targeted by Israeli airstrikes . <p> " Israel has forcibly displaced 90% of Gaza 's 2.2 million inhabitants , many of them multiple times , into ever-shrinking , ever-changing pockets of land that lacked basic infrastructure , forcing people to live in conditions that exposed them to a slow and calculated death . " <p> Trucks with aid destined for Gaza parked on the side of the road on October 16 in Arish , Egypt . - Ali Moustafa/Getty Images <p> In a statement on Wednesday , Callamard said the organization 's damning findings " must serve as a wake-up call " to the international community , warning that states who continue to transfer arms to Israel could be at risk of becoming complicit in genocide . <p> " All states with influence over Israel , particularly key arms suppliers like the USA and Germany , but also other EU member states , the UK and others , must act now to bring Israel 's atrocities against Palestinians in Gaza to an immediate end , " Callamard said . " This is genocide . It must stop now . " <p> A new report from Amnesty International found that Israel is committing genocide against Palestinians in its nearly 14-month-long campaign in Gaza that has killed more than 44,000 people and displaced most of the enclave 's population.The report , published Wednesday , said the ongoing assault on Gaza met the legal threshold for the crime of genocide after Amnesty spent months analyzing incidents and statements of Israeli officials . " Our research reveals that , for months , Israel has persisted in com <p> Lack of access to family doctors and other primary care providers leaves many Canadians with no option than to go to the emergency department for care , new data suggests.About one in seven visits to the emergency department in Canada are for conditions that could have been managed by a family doctor or other primary care provider like a nurse practitioner or pediatrician and roughly half of those visits could have been managed virtually , according to the Canadian Institute for Health Information <p> MEXICO CITY ( AP ) -- Mexico 's president said Thursday she will ask President-elect Donald Trump to deport non-Mexican migrants directly to their home countries , rather than dumping them at the Mexican border . <p> Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie reunited after more than twenty years since The Simple Life , and Peacock has released the trailer for Paris &amp; Nicole : The Encore . The three-part special , set to premiere on December 12 , will document Hilton and Richie 's reunion as they try to produce an operatic performance based on their self-coined phrase , " Sanasa . " Hilton ... <p> VANCOUVER -- When BC Place stadium announced a ban on loose objects and large bags for Taylor Swift 's upcoming shows in Vancouver , it put some Swifties in a bind -- what to do with the hundreds of friendship bracelets that are traditionally swapped at the superstar 's shows ?
