<p> Notifications are blocked for this site . If you wish to manage your notification settings from this browser you will need to update your browser 's settings . Usually you 'd need to click on site options icon to the left of address bar and change notifications preferences/permissions from there <p> ISTANBUL ( AP ) -- A Hamas official said Thursday that international mediators have resumed negotiating with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza , and that he was hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war was within reach . <h> Monthly Digital Subscription <p> *No charge for four weeks then billed as $19 plus GST every four weeks . Offer only available to new and qualified returning subscribers . Cancel any time . <p> ISTANBUL ( AP ) -- A Hamas official said Thursday that international mediators have resumed negotiating with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza , and that he was hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war was within reach . <h> or <p> ISTANBUL ( AP ) -- A Hamas official said Thursday that international mediators have resumed negotiating with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza , and that he was hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war was within reach . <p> Ceasefire negotiations were halted last month when Qatar suspended talks with mediators from Egypt and the United States because of frustration over a lack of progress between Israel and Hamas . But there has been a " reactivation " of efforts in recent days to end the fighting , release hostages from Gaza and free Palestinian prisoners in Israel , according to Bassem Naim , an official in Hamas ' political bureau who spoke with The Associated Press in Turkey . <p> Another official familiar with the talks confirmed the return of Qatari mediators . The official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the negotiations with the media . <p> Since the talks broke down , there have been significant shifts in the global and regional landscape . Donald Trump won the U.S. presidential election , and a ceasefire was declared last week between Israel and Hamas ally Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Trump is a staunch supporter of Israel , but Naim said he believes the incoming administration could " affect the situation positively " given that Trump had made halting wars in the region part of his campaign platform . Trump this week called for the release of all hostages held in Gaza by the time he takes office on Jan. 20 , saying there would be " hell to pay " if that does n't happen . <p> Previous rounds of negotiations focused on variations of a proposal calling for a multiphased ceasefire -- beginning with a preliminary six-week halt in fighting during which female , elderly and sick hostages would be freed in exchange for Palestinian prisoners . <p> During that time , Israel would pull back some forces , and displaced Palestinians would be allowed to return home . The sides would also begin talks on the next phase that would include the full withdrawal of Israeli forces , the release of remaining hostages and the terms of a permanent end to the war . A third , final phase would focus on reconstruction . <p> Naim said that no " solid , well-formed " new ceasefire proposal has yet been presented to Hamas . And even though ceasefire talks have broken down on multiple occasions throughout the war , he added : " I think it is not a big challenge to reach a deal ... if there are intentions on the other side . " <p> Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage . Israel 's blistering retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,500 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , whose count does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> In the negotiations to end the conflict , the two sides have been at odds on some major points , including whether any halt in the fighting would be permanent or temporary and whether Israeli forces would withdraw from all of the enclave , and on what timetable . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said Israel will maintain a long-term military presence in the territory and vowed to dismantle Hamas ' military capabilities and ensure that the militant group never governs again . <p> Trump 's Middle East envoy Steve Witkoff met separately in recent weeks with Netanyahu and Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani to discuss Gaza ceasefire talks , according to a U.S. official who spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to comment publicly . <p> In an interview with British broadcaster Sky News on Wednesday , the Qatari prime minister said officials in his country are aiming to reach a ceasefire before president-elect Trump takes office . <p> Naim said Hamas is sticking to the core demands it has held to during previous rounds of negotiations , including a permanent ceasefire , total withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Gaza Strip , and the right of internally displaced Palestinians in Gaza to return to their homes . But he also said the Palestinian militant group is " ready to show flexibility " on implementation , including on the timeline for withdrawal of Israeli forces from key parts of Gaza . <p> A previous round of talks in August reached an impasse in part because Israel demanded that it after any ceasefire it should maintain a military presence in the Philadelphi corridor , a strategic strip along the enclave 's border with Egypt , and in the Netzarim corrider that cuts from east to west across the territory 's midsection . <p> " There can be a discussion about these points , but at the end , Israel has to withdraw totally from the Philadelphi corridor , and the Rafah border ( with Egypt ) has to be opened immediately , " Naim said . <p> Naim said Palestinian factions were also making progress in deciding who would rule Gaza politically after the war . He confirmed that Hamas and its rival Fatah -- which dominates the Western-backed Palestinian Authority -- have reached an agreement in principle on forming a temporary committee of Palestinian technocrats that would govern Gaza in the immediate aftermath of the war . Under this arrangement , Hamas would give up its political rule of the enclave , but not lay down its arms . <p> Winnipeg Free Press Newsletter <h> The Warm-Up <p> Winnipeg Jets Game Days <p> On Winnipeg Jets game days , hockey writers Mike McIntyre and Ken Wiebe send news , notes and quotes from the morning skate , as well as injury updates and lineup decisions . Arrives a few hours prior to puck drop . <p> " Originally we are a Palestinian national liberation movement . We are not a movement to govern , " he said . " When it comes to the military wing ... as long as we are people under occupation , we have all the right to resist this occupation by all means , including armed resistance . <p> Israel says it will never let Hamas rule Gaza again , and is demanding the group disarm . <p> Hamas political official Khalil al-Hayya had previously told AP that if an independent Palestinian state were established along 1967 borders , the group would lay down its arms . Naim said that remains the group 's position . <p> " Resistance , including armed resistance , is a tool , " he said . " It is not a goal in itself . "
