<p> KHAN YOUNIS , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israeli airstrikes tore through a tent camp for displaced Palestinians in southern Gaza on Wednesday , sparking fires and killing at least 21 people , according to the head of a nearby hospital , in the latest assault on a sprawling tent city that Israel designated a humanitarian safe zone but has repeatedly targeted . <p> The Israeli military said it struck senior Hamas militants " involved in terrorist activities " in the area , without providing additional details , and said it took precautions to minimize harm to civilians . <p> The strike on the Muwasi tent camp was one of several deadly assaults across the Gaza Strip on Wednesday . An Israeli attack in central Gaza killed at least 10 more people , including four children , according to Palestinian medics . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> Israel 's devastating war in Gaza , launched after Hamas ' October 2023 attack , shows no signs of ending after nearly 14 months . Hamas is still holding dozens of Israeli hostages , and most of Gaza 's population has been displaced and is reliant on international food aid to survive . Israel is also pressing a major offensive in the isolated north , where experts say Palestinians might be experiencing famine . <p> The Biden administration has pledged to make a new push for a Gaza ceasefire now that there 's a truce in Lebanon between Israel and the militant group Hezbollah , ending more than a year of cross-border fighting . Meanwhile , President-elect Donald Trump demanded this week the release of hostages held by Hamas before he is sworn into office in January . <p> Wednesday 's strike in Muwasi -- a desolate area with few public services that holds hundreds of thousands of displaced people -- wounded at least 28 people , according to Atif al-Hout , the director of Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis . <p> An Associated Press journalist at the hospital counted at least 15 bodies , but said reaching a precise number was difficult because many of the dead were dismembered , some without heads or badly burned . In the morgue , an infant 's blackened hand and face peeked out from beneath a heavy blanket used to transport bodies to the hospital . <p> " It was like doomsday , " said a wounded woman , Iman Jumaa , who held back tears as she described how the strike killed her father , her brothers and her brothers ' children . <p> Videos and photos of the strike shared widely on social media showed flames and a column of black smoke rising into the night sky , as well as twisted metal tent frames and shredded fabric . Palestinian men searched through the still-burning wreckage , shouting , " Over here guys ! " Further away , civilians stood at a distance , observing the destruction . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> The military said the strikes had set off secondary blasts , indicating explosives present in the area had detonated . It was not possible to independently confirm the Israeli claims , and the strikes could also have ignited fuel , cooking gas canisters or other materials in the camp . <p> Shortly after the strike , Al-Awda Hospital said two people had been killed and 38 wounded in an attack on a residential block in the Nuseirat refugee camp . The military had no immediate comment on the strike , but said earlier strikes in central Gaza had hit " terrorist targets . " <p> Israel says it tries to avoid harming civilians and blames Hamas for their deaths , saying the militants often operate in residential areas and are known to position tunnels , rocket launchers and other infrastructure near homes , schools and mosques . <p> In northern Gaza , dozens of Palestinian families said Israel 's expanding offensive had forcibly displaced them from schools-turned-shelters . Associated Press footage showed people on the road Wednesday leaving Beit Lahia , many crowded onto donkey carts with their belongings in their arms . Others walked on foot . <p> " This morning a quadcopter ( drone ) detonated four bombs at the school . There were people injured , human remains -- we left with nothing , " said Sadeia al-Rahel . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> The 57-year-old said her family has been eating grass , leaves , and animal feed for two months due to the lack of food aid in the north . <p> The amount of aid entering Gaza plunged in October , and hunger is widespread across the territory , even in central Gaza where aid groups have more access . Humanitarian organizations say Israeli restrictions , ongoing fighting and the breakdown of law and order make it difficult to deliver assistance . Israel has said it is working to increase the flow of aid . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed over 44,500 Palestinians in Gaza , mostly women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas-led attack on southern Israel killed some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and around 250 people were abducted . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> On Wednesday , Israel said its forces recovered the body of a hostage who was captured alive during the Oct. 7 attack . Israel believes Itay Svirsky was killed by his captors . <p> The families of hostages held in Gaza have grown increasingly concerned that their loved ones are at risk so long as the war continues . Israel 's military released on Wednesday the findings of a probe into the circumstances behind the deaths of six hostages whose bodies were recovered in August , determining they were probably shot by their captors after a nearby Israeli strike in February .
