<h> Ukraine 's partition could unleash a savage guerrilla war <p> A Ukrainian service member rides on top of a tank , amid Russia 's invasion of Ukraine , near the town of Pokrovsk , Donetsk region , Ukraine , May 25 , 2022 . REUTERS/Carlos Barria/File PhotoCarlos Barria/Reuters <p> Nina L. Khrushcheva is a professor of international affairs at The New School and the co-author of In Putin 's Footsteps : Searching for the Soul of an Empire Across Russia 's Eleven Time Zones . <p> Donald Trump has long asserted that he would end the Ukraine war within 24 hours of taking office . There has been much speculation about the settlement Mr. Trump has in mind , and the scenarios all have one thing in common : Ukraine 's dismemberment . If this has to be the cost of peace , it is worth considering the grim history of territorial partition . <p> Few events create such long-lasting enmity ; fewer still have caused more devastating violence . The three partitions of Poland that took place in the late eighteenth century are perhaps Europe 's closest parallel to Mr. Trump 's vision for Ukraine . Beginning in 1772 , Austria 's Habsburg monarchy , the Kingdom of Prussia , and the Russian Empire seized and annexed territory , effectively dividing Polish lands among themselves and erasing what had been Europe 's largest state by landmass . <p> In the face of such subjugation , violent resistance is all but inevitable . Poles conducted periodic guerrilla-style campaigns throughout the occupation , with major uprisings in 1831 and 1863 . Resistance continued well into the 20th century , led by Josef Pilsudski 's campaigns for independence -- laced with acts of terror -- before the First World War . Enmity toward Russia , in particular , endures to this day , with the Kremlin having Stalin-era violence toward the Polish people to answer for . <p> As for France , it harboured hatred toward Germany for decades over Kaiser Wilhelm I 's absorption of Alsace and Lorraine into the new German Empire following the Franco-Prussian War of 1879-71 . Reconciliation between the two countries began only in the 1950s , with the emergence of the European Coal and Steel Community ( the precursor to today 's European Union ) and NATO . <p> Similarly , Britain 's decision to partition Ireland , keeping the northern province of Ulster as part of the United Kingdom , incited a civil war between those willing to cede Northern Ireland , led by Michael Collins , and those who rejected any treaty that did not grant Ireland complete independence . That savage war of peace lasted just two years but left a legacy of terror -- both Catholic and Protestant -- that ended only with the Good Friday Agreement , brokered by the United States in 1998 . <p> In terms of lives lost directly to a partition , however , nothing can compare to the 1947 division of the Indian subcontinent , following the departure of the British , into Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan . The partition triggered one of the largest migrations in history -- involving some 18 million people -- with Muslims heading to Pakistan ( including modern-day Bangladesh ) and Hindus and Sikhs trekking to India . Sectarian violence -- including rapes , burnings and mass killings -- led to the deaths of as many as 3.4 million people . <p> And then there is the 1947-48 partition of Palestine into an independent Jewish state and independent Arab state . This decision by the United Nations sparked decades of hostility , oppression , terrorism and wars that continue to this day . One need only to look at the ruins of Gaza to see the horrifying legacy of partition here . <p> So , what might a partition of Ukraine yield ? In fighting for their territorial integrity since February , 2022 , Ukrainians have demonstrated courage and dynamism -- qualities they will certainly bring to bear in rebuilding their country . But given the scale of the human and economic losses they have incurred , it will be hard for them to quietly submit to the idea of partition . It will be especially hard given that Russian President Vladimir Putin has made no secret of his belief that Ukraine is not just a " neighbouring country " but " that modern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia " and , therefore , should exist only under the Russian umbrella . <p> In any possible future peace negotiations , Ukrainians know that the best chance to prevent further Russian interference is through ironclad international security guarantees -- if not immediate NATO membership . Mr. Trump appears to loathe America 's current security commitments , but for the U.S. not to offer such guarantees may prove harmful to Russia , too . <p> Mr. Putin rose to power on the heels of a devastating war and a protracted insurgency in Russia 's republic of Chechnya , which included terrorist attacks by Chechen separatists in Moscow and other Russian cities . Already in 2022 , the Ukrainians promised a guerrilla war against Russia . Devoid of other options , that risk will only increase . Mr. Trump should seek to persuade the Kremlin of the need for fair negotiations ; otherwise , post-partition terrorism may come to Russia , possibly on a greater scale than the Chechens ever imagined .
