<p> Israel is committing a genocide against Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , the human rights group Amnesty International said on Wednesday , in a campaign that 's benefited from huge military and diplomatic support from the United States . <p> The declaration from Amnesty , an influential watchdog organization with wide international reach and respect , represents a significant addition to the chorus of accusations that the U.S.-backed Israeli offensive constitutes a genocide -- one of the gravest possible violations . Its decision was based on more than 200 interviews and a review of visual and digital documentation of Israeli conduct in Gaza , as well as media coverage , reports by the United Nations and humanitarian organizations and statements by Israeli officials and Palestinian groups in Gaza . <p> " Amnesty International concedes that identifying genocide in armed conflict is complex and challenging , because of the multiple objectives that may exist simultaneously . Nonetheless , it is critical to recognize genocide when it occurs in the context of armed conflict , and to insist that war can never excuse it , " the group 's report reads . <p> Advertisement <p> The report cites in particular the " relentless " Israeli attacks on civilians , infrastructure and cultural sites , and the U.S.-backed offensive 's displacement of around 2 million Palestinians " into ever-shrinking , ever-changing pockets of land ... forcing people to live in conditions that exposed them to a slow and calculated death . " <p> This is an especially contentious charge for Israel , given its founding in the aftermath of the attempted extermination of Jews via the Holocaust , which led to the coining of the term " genocide . " <p> A United Nations committee last month said Israel 's actions qualify as a genocide , and the U.N . ' s top court , the International Court of Justice , is considering a case from South Africa that holds Israel is breaching the Genocide Convention , after rejecting an Israeli claim the suit is baseless . Multiplescholars -- including Holocaust historian Omer Bartov , himself an Israeli American -- also say genocide is the appropriate term . <p> Israel and the U.S. have repeatedly rejected this depiction . Officials from both governments have cast the use of the term " genocide " related to the Gaza war as antisemitic and inaccurate . They argue Israel is not targeting Palestinians in general but specifically the Gaza-based militant group Hamas , and that doing so is an appropriate act of self-defense , after Hamas led an Oct. 7 attack inside Israel that killed 1,200 . Israel respects international standards for shielding civilians during conflict , the country 's supporters add . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel has yet to abide by repeated orders from the ICJ rooted in the genocide case , experts say , which include legally binding directives to ensure enough aid reaches Palestinians and to prevent incitement to commit genocide . <p> " There are acts which can never be justified by military necessity . " " <p> - Amnesty International <p> Another global court , the International Criminal Court , is also considering whether Israel 's actions constitute major offenses . The ICC last month issued arrest warrants for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant for war crimes and crimes against humanity . Israel 's government and the U.S. -- which , as Israel 's chief backer , is tacitly implicated in the many alleged international law violations over the Gaza war -- condemned the court 's decision . <p> Moshe Yaalon , a former chief of the Israeli military and defense minister , said this month Israeli actions in Gaza constitute war crimes . <p> Amnesty 's peer organizations , like Human Rights Watch and the Israeli group B'Tselem , have released investigations accusing Israel of various war crimes and crimes against humanity , including indiscriminate attacks on civilians , conducting ethnic cleansing and using mass starvation as a method of warfare . All three groups have also said Hamas ' actions on Oct. 7 represent war crimes . <p> Advertisement <p> In the years prior to Oct. 7 , each of the three separately concluded Israel 's treatment of Palestinians constituted " apartheid " -- a notable finding that spurred calls for global action , particularly by the U.S. , to change Israel 's behavior and to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> The report from Amnesty acknowledges the sensitivity of a broad claim Israel is conducting genocide . <p> Its investigation makes the case that Israel has " specific intent to destroy Palestinians in Gaza , " noting : " There is resistance and hesitancy among many , mainly other states , in finding genocidal intent . " <p> " This resistance has impeded justice and accountability with respect to past conflicts around the world and should be avoided in the future , " the Amnesty statement continues . <p> The report details the devastating impact of Israeli actions as the country has fought what it calls a war against Hamas . <p> " A state 's actions can serve the dual goal of achieving a military result and destroying a group , " such as the Palestinians , the report reads . " Genocide can also be the means for achieving a military result . In other words , a finding of genocide may be drawn when the state intends to pursue the destruction of a protected group in order to achieve a certain military result , as a means to an end , or until it has achieved it . " <p> Advertisement <p> The ICJ in January ruled Palestinians in Gaza constitute a group with the right to be protected from genocide . <p> Amnesty highlighted 15 Israeli attacks that , the group 's probe showed , had no military goal , as well as Israeli forces ' use of large bombs in residential areas and around hospitals even when pursuing military targets . It also described Israel 's move to cut off electricity for Gaza , which severely limited access to clean water ; Israel 's displacement and detention of huge numbers of Palestinians ; Israeli forces ' destroying medical facilities and the local agricultural system ; and severe Israeli-enforced restrictions on humanitarian aid . <p> The Israeli actions represent policies barred under the Genocide Convention , to which Israel and the U.S. are both parties , Amnesty argues . The convention bars major violence committed " with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical racial or religious group . " <h> Democracy In The Balance <p> Do n't let this be the end of the free press . The free press is under attack -- and America 's future hangs in the balance . As other newsrooms bow to political pressure , HuffPost is not backing down . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give once or many more times , we appreciate your contribution to keeping our journalism free for all . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give just one more time or sign up again to contribute regularly , we appreciate you playing a part in keeping our journalism free for all . <p> " International jurisprudence recognizes that the term ' in whole or in part ' refers to the intent , as opposed to the actual destruction . Equally important , finding or inferring specific intent does not require finding a single or sole intent , " the Amnesty report reads . <p> While the probe focused on the period between Oct. 7 , 2023 , and early July 2024 , the report notes : " Israel 's policies , actions and omissions do not appear to have changed in any significant way . In fact , since Amnesty International completed its research , Israel 's offensive in Gaza expanded . " <p> Advertisement <p> This week , Israeli airstrikes have killed dozens of Palestinians in northern Gaza . Hundreds of Palestinians have fled the area , which some observers worry Israel plans to never return to Palestinian control . <p> Israeli officials say their continued operations are key to preventing a Hamas resurgence . In its Wednesday report , Amnesty said it also plans to release a publication on alleged violations by Hamas and its allies . <p> " International law places certain conduct , including genocide , outside the permissible methods of war , meaning there are acts which can never be justified by military necessity , " the group 's Wednesday statement reads .
