<p> But moments later , an Israeli drone struck and killed Mahmoud , according to two relatives -- months after he told CNN that surviving more than a year of war is " our greatest victory . " <p> " They killed him on the spot , " Hani Almadhoun , Mahmoud 's brother , said on Monday . " They 've targeted him ... It is an attack against him . It 's not an accident . " <p> A friend rushed to take Mahmoud to the medical facility , but was immediately surrounded by gunfire , Hani , who is based in Virginia , alleged to CNN . <p> " They thought they could save him , but they said the sniper fire started shooting at them or near them , " he added . " They tried to find another route and they could n't . So , they just took him home , said a final goodbye , wrapped him in a blanket and quickly buried him . " <p> Over the past year , the Israeli military had detained Mahmoud twice in northern Gaza and released him both times , Hani told CNN . " He was detained unclothed , and they released him , " he said . " They had no interest in them , they let them go . " <p> CNN has reached out to the Israeli military for comment on Hani 's allegations . <p> Mahmoud is survived by his wife , Alaa , and their seven children including baby Aline , shown above , who was born just two weeks ago in Kamal Adwan Hospital . - Hani Almadhoun/Facebook <p> The Israeli military campaign in Gaza since the Hamas-led October 7 attacks has eviscerated entire families , turned once-lively neighborhoods into sprawling displacement areas , and triggered a humanitarian crisis of severe hunger , dehydration and disease . <p> A strike on southern Gaza 's Al Mawasi area , which Israel itself had designated as a humanitarian zone , is one of the latest attacks on areas where displaced Palestinians are sheltering . At least 20 people were killed , including at least 11 children , according to Nasser hospital officials on Wednesday . The Israeli military said efforts were taken to mitigate civilian harm before its " precise strike " on senior Hamas militants in the humanitarian area . <p> At least 44,502 Palestinians have been killed since Israel launched its war in Gaza , according to the Ministry of Health there . Another 105,454 people have been injured , the ministry added . <p> Hani told CNN that at least 180 of his relatives , including immediate and extended family members , have been killed by Israeli attacks in Gaza . Last winter , his other brother , Majed , his wife , and their four children , were killed by an Israeli airstrike -- just two hours before a temporary ceasefire came into effect . <p> Mahmoud is survived by his wife , Alaa , and their seven children -- the youngest of whom is a baby girl named Aline , who was born just two weeks ago . The family have since fled from Beit Lahiya to another neighborhood in northern Gaza , Hani told CNN . <p> " There is nobody there to support them , " he said . " Mahmoud was their breadwinner , and he was the father . <p> " He had a soft side to him . He was a jokester . He was always teasing my mom and dad . He just cared for his neighbors . " <h> ' He refused to leave ' <p> Before the war , Mahmoud owned a store selling mobile devices . But like many other retailers in the enclave , Israel 's bombing campaign destroyed his business . Instead , he turned to running a soup kitchen . <p> In September , Mahmoud told CNN that he feeds between 600 and 800 families per day in the northern Gaza strip . " Thank God we survived physically , " he said . " That is our greatest victory . " <p> Then on October 5 , Israeli forces unleashed a volley of aerial and ground attacks on three neighborhoods in northern Gaza , decimating entire street blocks , compounding chronic hunger and leaving emergency crews unable to rescue civilians wounded by the onslaught . <p> Mahmoud , a small business owner turned chef , told CNN in September that surviving a year of Israel 's war in Gaza " is our greatest victory . " - The Gaza Soup Kitchen <p> The Israeli military says the attacks are targeting Hamas ' renewed presence in the region . More than 3,700 Palestinians have been killed there , according to Gaza 's Government Media Office ( GMO ) . Another 10,000 people have been injured , the GMO said on Monday . <p> As Israel 's attacks intensified , the soup kitchen 's operations became increasingly precarious , Hani recalled . In the days preceding his death , Mahmoud delivered meals for as many as 200 to 250 families per day . He started sending produce to the nearby Kamal Adwan Hospital , serving patients and medical staff , according to his cousin based in Gaza . <p> " In his last effort , he managed to bring in vegetables with the aid supplies and ambulances that had arrived in the north , bringing joy to many during such difficult times , " Yahya Almadhoun told CNN on Monday . <p> " He refused to leave the north . When we fled the north , we spoke with him and urged him to come with us , but he declined , saying , ' As long as there are people and the hospital is here , I will stay to support and provide them services . I can not leave . ' <p> " He had a kind heart and was very active in providing psychological support for children and helping those in need . " <p> The Gaza Soup Kitchen fed hundreds of families per day in the northern Beit Lahiya neighborhood , where Israel 's incursion has severely restricted the flow of aid into the area . - The Gaza Soup Kitchen <p> Virtually no aid has entered besieged parts in northern Gaza since early October , the UN reported on November 19 . Famine is " imminent " in those areas of northern Gaza , the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification ( IPC ) , which assesses global food insecurity and malnutrition , said on November 8 . <p> On Monday , the Israeli agency that controls the flow of aid into Gaza said that the UN 's World Food Programmed collected 52 food trucks through the Erez West crossing , for distribution in the northern Gaza Strip . <p> " This is really purely ethnic cleansing . They 're just killing everybody . This is not a targeted operation , " Hani told CNN . " There is nothing left for them . They 're just destroying homes and kicking people out . " <p> " This is really reliving the Nakba , " Hani added , referring to " the catastrophe " of 1948 -- when at least 700,000 Palestinians fled or were forcibly expelled from their homes in historic Palestine , during the creation of Israel . <p> " Mahmoud , and people like him , were doing God 's work . And that was good enough to put a target on his back , " he said . " He was punished because he was helping people fight the famine . " <p> Vancouver police say a " number of people have been stabbed , " and a suspect was shot by police in the city 's downtown on Wednesday.Police said they responded to the " violent incident " near Robson and Hamilton streets.Witnesses speaking to CBC News said shots were fired near a 7-Eleven close to the Vancouver Central Public Library . Vancouver police on the scene of what they were calling ' a violent incident ' near Robson and Hamilton streets on Wednesday . ( Ben Nelms/CBC ) They said two people were tak <p> Israeli military strikes killed at least 23 Palestinians across the Gaza Strip on Tuesday , most of them in the town of Beit Lahiya on the northern edge , medics said , as the army issued new evacuation orders in the south of the small enclave . Medics said eight people had been killed in a series of airstrikes in Beit Lahiya while four others were killed elsewhere in Gaza City . An Israeli airstrike later killed two people and wounded others in Jabalia , the largest of Gaza 's eight historic refugee camps , in the coastal enclave 's north , medics said . <p> A suspect stabbed people in the Canadian city of Vancouver on Wednesday and was shot by police officers , police said . Vancouver police said in a post on X that the stabbing happened near the main library in the downtown area of the Pacific Coast city . Other video footage posted online shows a person being taken to an ambulance on a stretcher as paramedics perform chest compressions . <p> Federal cabinet minister Harjit Sajjan is defending his decision to accept taxpayer-funded Taylor Swift tickets for himself and his daughter.Sajjan , the minister responsible for the Pacific Economic Development Agency of Canada , was invited by PavCo , a B.C. Crown corporation that owns and operates B.C. Place Stadium , where the concerts will take place.PavCo has been donating Swift tickets to food banks and other charity organizations so that they could raffle them off and raise money . PavCo has <p> Vancouver police are seeking help identifying a suspect seen in CCTV video suddenly attacking a man walking on the sidewalk outside of the downtown Hudson 's Bay store last week.The video shows a 28-year-old man walking alone eastbound on West Georgia Street at 10:04 p.m. on Nov. 28 . As he reaches a crowded bus stop , a man lunges at him , hits him in the face and pushes him to the ground . " This was a completely unprovoked and violent sucker-punch on a total stranger , " said Vancouver police spokespe
