<p> In recent years , Syria was the other war . Not quite forgotten , but rarely mentioned as the world 's attention shifted to Ukraine , Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Those more recent conflicts have now affected the 13-year-old struggle for Syria , distracting and weakening the allies of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad and creating a new opening for the hodgepodge of rebel and jihadist groups that were thought to have been defeated . <p> The front lines in the civil war -- which began in 2011 when Mr. al-Assad 's forces launched a brutal crackdown on peaceful demonstrators -- barely moved over the past eight years . Though opposition fighters still held sway in corners of the country , Mr. al-Assad had managed to cling to power in the centre thanks largely to his allies in Russia , Iran and Lebanon . <p> That outcome is suddenly in question , after a dramatic week and a half during which Syria 's rebels , led by a Turkish-backed jihadi group that once had ties to al-Qaeda , have captured hundreds of square kilometres of territory , including the country 's second-largest city , Aleppo . <p> Islamist-led rebels captured the central Syrian city of Hama on Dec. 5 , days after seizing the country 's commercial hub Aleppo in a lightning offensive against President Bashar al-Assad 's forces . Abdulaziz Ketaz/AFP <p> On Thursday , photographs and videos posted to social media suggested that fighters from the jihadi group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham had entered the city of Hama , a key crossroads on the road to Damascus , releasing hundreds of prisoners from the city 's main jail . In a statement , the Syrian military said its forces had withdrawn from the city " to preserve civilian lives and prevent urban combat . " <p> It 's the first time Hama has fallen outside of government control in a war the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says has killed more than 500,000 people since 2011 , while driving millions more from the country . The front line is now just over 200 kilometres from Damascus , half the distance it was at the start of the offensive . <p> Syria 's multi-sided war has been a proxy conflict from the start , and the sudden HTS gains are a result of shifts in the balance of power between Mr. al-Assad 's allies and foes . <p> Mr. al-Assad 's forces seemed on the brink of defeat a dozen years ago , until Iran and its proxies -- most notably Lebanon 's Hezbollah militia -- began wading deeper and deeper into the war on the side of the regime . <p> Russian President Vladimir Putin and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad shake hands during a meeting at the Kremlin in Moscow , March 15 , 2023 . SPUTNIK/Reuters <p> An even bigger turning point came in 2015 when Russian President Vladimir Putin deployed his air force to bolster Mr. al-Assad and defend Russia 's Cold War-era bases in Syria . Russian warplanes helped drive the rebels , who had nothing in the way of modern air defences , away from Damascus and Aleppo . <p> By the end of 2016 , the predominantly Sunni Muslim rebels that had once seemed on the verge of ousting Mr. al-Assad were confined to the northwestern province of Idlib , under the umbrella of their nearby Turkish patrons . Turkey 's military maintains outposts inside the Syrian region . There , HTS -- which was previously known as the al-Nusra Front and remains listed as a terrorist group by Canada , the U.S. and most Western countries -- reportedly adopted more moderate positions as it became the de facto government for the five million people living in the region , many of whom are refugees from other parts of Syria . <p> Separately , Kurdish forces -- who had come to fear Turkey and its Syrian allies almost as much as the regime -- held the east of the country , protected by the Euphrates River and the U.S. Air Force . <p> Front lines that had appeared frozen since that time actually began to thaw in 2022 , when Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine . That war , which was supposed to result in a rapid conquest , has instead turned into a grinding conflict that has required nearly all of the Russian military 's attention . As soon as it became clear that Ukraine 's resistance far exceeded what the Kremlin had been expecting , Russia began redeploying some of its best generals , troops and military equipment from Syria to Ukraine . <p> Then came the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel by Hamas , a Gaza-based militant group and Iranian ally . That attack was followed a day later by Hezbollah opening a second front against Israel . <p> Fourteen months later , Iran 's treasured " axis of resistance " -- a network of proxy forces around the Middle East -- is in tatters . Much of Hezbollah 's leadership was wiped out this fall in a series of Israeli assassinations . After losing thousands of fighters in battle since September , when Israel launched an invasion of its stronghold in southern Lebanon -- and with a Nov. 27 ceasefire on the verge of collapsing back into all-out war -- Hezbollah does n't have the capacity to fight in Syria too . ( HTS appears to have timed the start of its offensive with the declaration of the ceasefire in Lebanon , likely so that it could n't be accused of aiding Israel by creating a new front for Hezbollah and Iran to worry about . ) <p> Iran , which has also exchanged long-range attacks with Israel over the past year and is bracing for the return of U.S. president-elect Donald Trump to the White House , is much more distracted than it was a decade ago when it first intervened on Mr. al-Assad 's behalf . <p> " Iran 's strategic position in the region was already deteriorating ; the rebel attack on Aleppo and the apparent renewed threat to the Assad regime put it further in jeopardy , " Middle East expert Steven A. Cook wrote this week in a brief for the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations . <p> The other key players in the war are Turkey and the U.S. , two NATO allies with very different visions for Syria . While Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan appears to have given his blessing to the HTS offensive , the U.S. has serious qualms about the possibility of Islamic extremists taking power in Damascus and gaining a border with Israel . <p> The roughly 900 U.S. troops in Syria have largely focused on protecting the Kurdish region in the east of the country , and combatting the remnants of the so-called Islamic State that a decade ago captured swaths of eastern Syria and western Iraq . <p> There are questions about whether the U.S. will remain in Syria after Mr. Trump returns to office in January . Mr. Trump abruptly withdrew the majority of U.S. troops from the country in 2018 , during his first stint in the White House , and has vowed to bring an end to U.S. involvement in foreign wars . <p> Displaced children who fled the Aleppo countryside , pile into the back of a truck in Tabqa , Syria , Dec. 4 , 2024 . Orhan Qereman/Reuters A man walks past people queuing to receive bread , after rebels took the main northern city of Aleppo , Dec. 4 , 2024 . Karam al-Masri/Reuters <p> Such debates feel remote to many Syrians . For now , they 're just hoping to survive the latest escalation in a seemingly unending war . <p> Bahia Mardini , a Syrian journalist and human rights activist now living in exile in Britain , said she had been receiving " continuous appeals from civilians to protect them " as Russian and regime warplanes pounded the rebel-held cities of Aleppo and Idlib in response to the rebel offensive . She said residents were facing severe shortages of bread and clean water , and the White Helmets rescue group posted footage Thursday of the aftermath of an air strike on Aleppo 's main hospital . <p> " The factions ' attacks were an attempt to impose a new reality and change the balances on the ground and change the areas of control , " Ms. Mardini said . " I fear the shedding of more blood . "
