<p> Toronto 's weekly rally in support of Israel , which has now run for 61 consecutive weeks and counting , turned into a more consistently chaotic scene this fall . <p> What was once a handful of people -- and later dozens -- waving Israeli and Canadian flags outside a shopping plaza in the heart of a Jewish neighbourhood at Bathurst Street and Sheppard Avenue has escalated into an ongoing Sunday counter-protest by pro-Palestinian groups , fuelling a competition between two sides for sidewalk space , chants and sound systems . <p> By contrast , the organizers of weekly rallies in Vancouver and Montreal , taking the form of marches -- while Winnipeg has a regular silent demonstration on a busy thoroughfare -- told The CJN that their experience with counter-protests has mostly been a different one than in Toronto . <p> The weekly events support the return of the hostages , who were kidnapped into Gaza on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and the Israeli soldiers . <p> At the Toronto rally , which steadily swelled to draw around 100 attendees -- although the pro-Israel crowd on Dec. 1 was estimated at over 250 people -- Toronto Police Services ( TPS ) have largely managed safety concerns by keeping groups apart , even with two sides chanting at one another ( and sometimes taunting , recording , or holding up signs at the opposing side ) . For the first rally of December , about 100 counter-protesters showed up . <p> The demonstrations started as a response to the ' Day of Rage ' called for by Hamas leaders on Friday , Oct. 13 , 2023 . From there , it grew from a small contingent waving Israeli flags to the current weekly two-hour rally with amplified sound and a " shuk " with flags available for loan . At least 15 to 20 police vehicles were counted in the plaza and surrounding area on Dec. 1 , including a mobile command unit and what appeared to be a black surveillance truck , with a roof-mounted camera . <p> Local bylaw enforcement officers were also seen with audio equipment , measuring decibel levels . <p> In addition , volunteer security outfits such as Magen Herut and Shomrim Toronto have been a consistent presence -- in some cases helping police create physical space during dust-ups between pro-Israel and anti-Israel demonstrators . <p> Recent rallies have seen a number of arrests for breach of peace and obstruction of officers . One person was arrested and charged earlier in November in connection with stomping on an Israeli flag . <p> Back in August , one person was arrested and charged with assault after 88-year-old rally regular Joel Sacke 's Israeli flag was seized and he was thrown to the ground . <p> Tensions have continued to escalate since then . A few weeks ago , counter-protesters brought out an armchair in a symbolic gesture to the circumstances of death of the assassinated Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar and imitated the terrorist leader . <p> David Menzies , a reporter with Rebel News , was arrested after his attempts to interview counter-protesters and refusal to remove a video camera from a police officer 's face who stood between Menzies and counter protesters . <p> Rebel News publisher Ezra Levant in turn led a counter-protest with some of his staff members , followed by his own arrest a week later on Nov. 24 . A call-out to his audience followed for the Dec. 1 protest : Levant showed up early to stake out territory , and counter-protesters brought signs specifically taunting him . <p> Guidy Mamann , a rally co-organizer and lawyer , told the Dec. 1 that " we had a great rally today , " even with the surrounding restrictions . <p> " Thank you to all to the folks across the street , " he quipped into the microphone . <p> " You 're not getting any closer to getting rid of us ... you 're welcome to return every week in the winter , we 're not going anywhere , " said Mamann . <p> " These are free streets . You can come as often as you want ... we 're going to be here . We 're going to be celebrating Israel . " <h> The state of #ProtestMania <p> Caryma Sa 'd has also been documenting numerous local demonstrations , posting videos from protests . She says the size of the counter-protest grew from a small number to the current contingent averaging at least 20 to 60 or more people over the past two to three months . <p> The lawyer and journalist , whose #ProtestMania postings have grown her social media following over the past year -- along with mainstream media attention -- senses there may not be consensus between the weekly rally organizers about whether Levant is helping things . <p> " Rebel brought its own contingent , basically , " to the mid-November rally , following Menzies ' arrest . <p> " He made his point . And then the week following that , Ezra showed up again . That was the week that Ezra got arrested . He was escorted over to film that Sinwar chair . I do n't know exactly how it went awry , " although there is video of the arrest , she said . <p> Hamas activists have brought a chair &amp; Yahya Sinwar cosplayer to further incite &amp; disturb the peace at the Jewish neighborhood in Toronto at Bathurst &amp; Sheppard . <p> For Dec. 1 , she said , " Levant did a call out for community members to support his initiative , " she said , including those " fed up with seeing how things are being enforced , or whatever he put out in his call out . <p> " They showed up earlier than the Palestine counter-protesters do , and they kind of marched over and set up on the opposite side of the pro-Israel rally , where the counter-protesters would otherwise have established themselves . <p> " This is the first time that they kind of staked the territory in advance , but really , I think of it as there being three different groups . There 's the pro-Israel and pro-Palestine , but a subset of the pro-Israel is this counter-counter-protest , the Ezra Levant group -- and there 's some overlap in membership there , but not perfect overlap . <p> " Some people came out more in support of the values of ' we should be able to walk freely without fear of being arrested , ' " she says . There are also protesters she said she recognized from COVID-lockdown-era protests , a wave of demonstrations remembered for occupations of Ottawa streets and the Ambassador Bridge between Windsor and Detroit in 2022 . <p> ( She has also been criticized by pro-Palestinian protesters who 've accused her and her camera operator of aggressions while filming demonstrations , to which she 's responded by sharing videos of the events in question . ) <p> A video Sa 'd posted from Dec. 1 shows police speaking with the counter-protester that some say was displaying a Hamas symbol on a flag they were wearing as a cape , though it is n't clear if there was a request to put away the item . <p> " One of the counter-protesters did have a flag cape , and it looked like it was the Hamas emblem on there . A few of the regular protesters on the pro-Israel side recognized it and were denouncing it , they wanted to see consequences for her , " Sa 'd told The CJN . <p> " From a legal standpoint , I do n't know that wearing a particular flag or emblem in and of itself is a criminal activity . I think that police in deciding how they were going to respond , their priority seems to be de-escalation . " <p> A Hamas supporter today at Bathurst and Sheppard wears a Hamas flag . The Toronto Police was notified and took no action but last week Toronto Police took action against a Jewish man waving a Jewish Defence League flag . Hamas is listed as a Terrorist Organization not the JDL. **26;259;TOOLONG <p> " I have seen TPS ask people to put , for example , JDL flags away , and I 've seen compliance with that . Sometimes it 's as simple as ... without intervening by laying a charge , can we just de-escalate the situation by addressing whatever it is that 's causing people to be angry ? I 've also seen someone arrested for ... stomping on the Israeli flag , and he did n't stop after police warned him , and then he was arrested , " said Sa 'd . <p> Some of the protesters and counter-protesters who now face off weekly across Bathurst Street had previously been doing so at the Avenue Road and Highway 401 overpass demonstrations and counter-protests early in 2024 , before TPS chief Myron Demkiw banned those demonstrations , Sa 'd said . <p> The prolific protest-watcher says there may be a sort of " resigned coexistence " between rival groups . <p> " Some of these people have been protesting against each other for over a year , and watching each other 's social media , seeing each other appear on each other 's social media ... seeing themselves both appear on my social media or other people who are covering this ... I think that provides , sometimes , a different perspective , " she said , though she adds that it depends on the individual . <h> Growing pressure on city hall <p> Sunday rallies also became the focal point for outspoken members of the city 's Jewish community who have advocated for Toronto mayor Olivia Chow to take a stronger stance on antisemitism , which has skyrocketed since the Oct. 7 attacks . In the past year , there have been shots fired at synagogues and Jewish schools , increased hateful graffiti , and several disturbing incidents , including an assault on a parent outside a Chabad of Midtown pre-school in November . <p> Kehillat Shaarei Torah in North York , which has been vandalized or attacked at least six times since April 2024 , reported a new attack on Dec. 2 , with apparent graffiti and damage to a lawn sign . <p> Chow was called out and her remarks were interrupted during an appearance at a summit on antisemitism at City Hall on Thursday . Eynat Katz , one of the organizers of the weekly rally , invited the mayor to join them by attending on Sunday , Dec. 1 . <p> " We have been standing there , 60 weeks , the longest running , peaceful rally , " said Katz , who live-streamed the summit on social media . " I ask you , I ask you to join us this Sunday at noon , that 's it . Just show up . You do n't have to say anything . Just stand with us . <p> " We have been on that corner peacefully for a year , and about four weeks ago , masked protesters " began to counter-protest more consistently , Katz told the mayor while recording . " There 's a failure in the law right there , how they can run around , chanting ... just calling for the destruction of Israel , taunting us across the street . " <p> The mayor entered after the summit had already begun , following deputations from Indigenous , Christian , and Muslim community allies of combatting antisemitism , and victims of antisemitic hate crimes in the city , including one incident linked to the pro-Israel rallies . <p> At one point , Chow explained to an apparently underwhelmed number of largely Jewish constituents about the recently announced five-year commitment to funding more police officers . <p> Chow pointed out the hundreds of new graduates of the police college in 2024 , and -- as her remarks became a back-and-forth with community members particularly upset about things like the masked Sunday rally counter-protesters -- explained that no elected officials can direct the police to enforce the law . <p> Toronto 's current mayor has yet to attend a rally at Bathurst and Sheppard . <p> Deputy Mayor @MikeColleTo , Councillor @BradMBradford and I hosted a press conference and vital Interfaith Summit on Antisemitism and Hate . We were proud to have community and faith leaders here at city hall to share their outrage over the hate that is gripping the city . Thanks to ... **26;287;TOOLONG <h> Views from Vancouver , Winnipeg and Montreal <p> Three other weekly rallies in Canada have n't seen the same escalation of anti-Israel protest activity at their events , even while protests have closed Montreal colleges and caused property damage <p> In a collective podcast interview with The CJN Daily -- which also featured Toronto 's Guidy Mamann -- organizers in Montreal , Vancouver and Winnipeg said that their cities ' rallies have helped unite communities , and given people a chance to connect that they often did n't know they needed . <p> According to organizer Daphna Kedem , the Vancouver event is strongly aligned with the message from the families of the hostages . Kedem says each week the rally has a theme , such as a recent focus on the international day for the elimination of violence against women . In addition , sometimes friends and family of Ben Mizrahi attend , in honour of the locally raised 22-year-old who was killed at the Nova music festival . The weekly event often includes an information table . <p> Pro-Israel weekly rally to free the hostages in Vancouver , B.C. on the steps of the Art Gallery of Vancouver , on Sept 10 , 2024. ( **33;315;TOOLONG ) . <p> " It 's really surprising . Some people do n't even know that there are 101 hostages , " said Kedem . " Besides the rally part ... this is where people can come and ask questions , because they see so much leaflets and false information , even stickers around town saying so many things ... so I think it 's important . " <p> At all the rallies , organizers direct participants not to engage with counter-protesters , if they appear , and to leave any safety issues related to confrontations to police . <p> " This would not be the time that we can change hearts and minds ... on a two- minute conversation , or yelling at one another , so it 's obviously not the right time , " said Kedem . <p> " We are in Vancouver downtown . There 's a lot of interaction . There 's a lot of questions . There 's a lot of people engaging , " she said . <p> Kedem says the rallies have received members of hostage families at the weekly events , though not frequently . One powerful moment , however , was when Yasmin Magal , the Canadian-Israeli cousin of hostage Omer Neutra , marched alongside the Vancouver group . <p> " We marched the streets of downtown Vancouver , and it was so powerful , and it was so touching for her . That was the peak of all the 60 weeks we had , because it was close to home .... it was the actual feeling that it is happening , she 's here with us , and we are trying very hard , and we are doing our best to be there with them and for them , and it was a very powerful march . " <p> Neutra was confirmed dead in Gaza Dec. 2 in an announcement by the Israeli military . He was killed in the fighting on Oct.7 , and was not a hostage as had originally been thought . His remains had been brought to Gaza by Hamas . <p> At the weekly silent rally in Winnipeg , which is heavily supported and promoted by the local Jewish federation , organizers control the signs that are handed out . In sub-zero temperatures , sometimes the event runs much shorter , however , organizer Michel Aziza says they 've never had fewer than 150 people , and average anywhere from 200 to 500 attendees per week over the course of more than a year . <p> Organizers in several cities , including Toronto and Winnipeg , noted the number of community allies who support the weekly hostage-focused Israel rallies . <p> " There are so many other communities coming to support us week after week , " including Yazidis , Filipinos , and Iranians , said Aziza . <p> " We may think we 're alone , but we 're not alone , and we may think that we do n't have a lot of support out there , but we do have a lot of support out there . " <p> Michal Bental , a Montreal organizer , recalls that a visit at one rally from the parents of Shani Louk , a German citizen who was murdered in the Nova attack and her body dragged to Gaza , made for a powerful moment . <p> Montrealers gather each Sunday for a march by Bring Them Home Now Montreal in support of the release of the hostages . ( **29;350;TOOLONG ) <p> " It created this closure , with the people who see all these photos of hostages , and Oct. 7 victims all the time ... and suddenly they see the real people for whom this tragedy is so close to their hearts , and you realize that this is real , " said Bental . <p> " So for us , it 's really important to create these kind of closures , and engagements with different people . It helps people to keep the interest in what we 're fighting for . "
