<h> Windsor police make arrest in east end break-in spree <p> The Windsor Police Service logo is shown on a wall in a boardroom at police headquarters . ( Dalson Chen/CBC - image credit ) <p> The Windsor Police Service says it has arrested a 34-year-old man and is seeking another suspect in connection with a series of commercial break-ins in the city 's east end . <p> The incidents took place on Nov. 12 , starting at around 1:45 a.m. , when surveillance video captured two suspects attempting to break into a business in the 5200 block of Tecumseh Road East , police said in a post Friday on X ( formerly Twitter ) . <p> The suspects arrived in a white SUV and used a tool to pry open the doors , shattering the glass , but failed to get into the building , police said . <p> Approximately 10 minutes later , the same suspects broke into a business in the 2500 block of Roseville Garden Drive and stole money and prescription medication . <p> They then returned to the original business on Tecumseh Road East and again tried unsuccessfully to break in , police said . <p> Then , shortly before 3 a.m. , the suspects smashed the front window of a business in the 5600 block of Tecumseh Road East and stole money and tools . <p> Police traced the suspect vehicle to a residence in LaSalle , identified a suspect and arrested him near Tourangeau Road and Grand Marais Road , police said . <p> He 's been charged with two counts each of break-and-enter and attempted break-and-enter , possession of break-and-enter tools , and four counts of wearing a disguise with the intent of driving while prohibited . <p> A second suspect remains at large . He is described as a white male wearing a grey hoodie , black pants , white Adidas shoes and blue latex gloves . <p> Anyone with information is asked to call the Windsor Police Service 's Target Base Unit at 519-255-6700 , ext. 4350 . They can also contact Crime Stoppers anonymously at 519-258-8477 ( TIPS ) or provide information online athttp : //catchcrooks.com . <h> Latest Stories <p> A lodging centre that helps Inuit in Montreal 's West Island is advising clients to be aware of suspicious " scammer drivers " trying to offer them rides from Montreal 's Trudeau airport.Ullivik , a centre for Inuit to stay when travelling south for medical care , has received reports about a white van and a white taxi trying to persuade Inuit to get into their vehicles.The centre became concerned after a client complained that someone tried to lure her into an unmarked van with dark windows . " She knew <p> TORONTO -- Charges against four of the five people arrested for protesting at last year 's Giller Prize have been withdrawn , antiwar organizers announced Friday as they pledged to keep fighting for an end to Israel 's attacks on Gaza . <p> Police across the region are working together to find a Fanshawe College student missing since Tuesday.Nidhua Muktadir , 20 , was last seen in Union just outside of Port Stanley , wearing white running shoes and carrying a white backpack . Surveillance footage shows her pulling a small suitcase leaving her home in London , near Fanshawe College Boulevard and Fleming Drive.London police said she had ordered a ride-sharing service , but they were not able to say whether Muktadir 's final destination was <p> NAIROBI ( Reuters ) -Nearly 20 of the roughly 400 Kenyan police officers serving in Haiti on a U.N.-backed anti-gang force have submitted letters of resignation from the mission over the past two months because of pay delays and poor conditions , three officers told Reuters . The officers have received no response to their letters and continue to serve on the Multinational Security Support ( MSS ) mission , said the three officers , who requested anonymity because they were not allowed to speak to the media . The MSS in Haiti , which is led by top Kenyan police officers , said in a statement sent after publication of this article that it " categorically refutes " the assertions by Reuters that MSS officers were considering resigning over payment delays . <p> After 15 months of war , the homes of Israeli hostages are like time capsules of a war zone . Nearby , the walls of Oded Lifshitz 's home are singed , the ceilings have partially collapsed , scars of the initial Hamas attack Oct. 7 , 2023 , in which the elderly man and his wife , Yocheved , were abducted . One hundred hostages remain in Gaza , at least third of whom Israeli officials say are dead . <p> Kenyan police exchanged fire with gangs in Port-au-Prince on Thursday while establishing control of a building in an area of the capital controlled by the Viv Ansanm gang , led by Jimmy Ch ? rizier , also known as Barbecue . <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- New clues emerged Thursday in the hunt for the masked gunman who stalked and killed UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson , including possible leads about his travel before the shooting and a message scrawled on ammunition found at the crime scene . <p> New details have emerged in the case of a man accused of killing a Canadian woman in the remote Shetland Islands of Scotland and then allegedly telling two people that she was in " good health . " Aren Pearson , 40 , faces seven charges , including assault , murder and attempting to defeat the ends of justice in the death of his girlfriend 24-year-old Claire Leveque , of Edmonton . Pearson , a Canadian who also recently received his Scottish citizenship , appeared in Glasgow High Court Friday for a prelimin <p> Officials say two migrant teens were victims in a New York City stabbing , one fatally , after the teens were asked if they spoke English and they responded that they did n't . Police say they were responding to a 911 call for an assault in Lower Manhattan when they found a 17-year-old male with a stab wound to the chest and an 18-year-old male with a stab wound to the left arm . One was wearing a green jacket , white pants and white sneakers . <p> Waterloo regional police have arrested and charged three men in relation to a " chop shop " discovery in North Dumfries . On Nov. 23 , regional police responded to a report of a stolen Toyota Tundra seen at a business on Darrel Drive in the township . When officers arrived at the business , they found the vehicle which had been previously reported stolen from the GTA . Two men were arrested . The Waterloo Regional Police Service ( WRPS ) held a media conference Wednesday morning for an update on the disco <p> New images have been released of the suspect wanted over the targeted murder of a healthcare boss in New York City . Brian Thompson , the chief executive of UnitedHealthcare , was gunned down outside a Manhattan hotel yesterday morning before the start of a conference . Police say the gunman was wearing a mask and footage shows him walking slowly behind Mr Thompson before shooting him several times in the back . <p> A Texas man who was the first rioter to go on trial for the Jan. 6 , 2021 , attack on the U.S. Capitol was resentenced on Friday to nearly seven years in prison after he delivered an angry , profane rant to the judge who agreed to modestly reduce his original sentence . Guy Reffitt benefitted from a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that led to the dismissal of his conviction on an obstruction charge . Reffitt repeatedly shook his head and appeared to be agitated as he listened to U.S. District Judge Dabney Friedrich and a prosecutor describe his role in a mob 's attack on the Capitol . <p> PORT-AU-PRINCE , Haiti ( AP ) -- An armored vehicle carrying Kenyan police rumbles through Haiti 's capital with a shattered window that a high-caliber bullet failed to penetrate , a permanent sign of violence the officers face almost daily in Port-au-Prince . <p> Llewelyn Nippard , seen in this undated file photo , is still considered a moderate risk to re-offend within a romantic relationship . ( CBC ) A Newfoundland man who stabbed his wife 33 times has been granted a temporary leave from prison after spending more than three decades behind bars.Llewelyn Nippard attacked Nellie Nippard in July 1990 , stabbing her repeatedly in the arms , face , neck and back.Despite all efforts to murder her , Nellie Nippard survived the attack , and went on to become a high-prof
