<h> The latest news on the war against Hamas , with Canadian perspectives on Israel and Palestine , and updates out of Gaza and the West Bank . <h> Top Stories <p> While nowhere in Gaza can be considered safe , among the most dangerous places these days is anywhere there 's food.Many of the roads used by humanitarian agencies to transport and deliver basic necessities have descended into chaos . The trucks that carry food are routinely attacked and looted . And the spaces outside the territory 's few operating bakeries have become death traps , often jammed with desperate , hungry people climbing over each other to grab limited supplies of bread . While Israel and <h> Latest on Israel-Hamas war <p> Canada 's former ambassador to Israel says Canada should recognize the existence of a Palestinian state now as a way to forge a path to peace in the region . " Recognition of a Palestinian state is not about peace in the region today , or even tomorrow . Few people in Israel or Palestine can focus on two states right now , " said Jon Allen . " Recognizing a Palestinian state now is about sending a message of hope and commitment to Palestinians and sending a clear message to Israel and others that simply ma <p> One day after Yahya Sinwar , the leader of Hamas , was killed by Israeli troops during a patrol in southern Gaza , Israel announced it was sending another military unit into the rubble-strewn neighbourhoods of Jabalia , in the north of the strip , releasing video of the staging of tanks and troops.It was hardly a sign of de-escalation nor a step toward a ceasefire deal that would free the 101 hostages still in Gaza -- at least half of whom Israeli officials believe are still alive.The families of the <p> In the end , Yahya Sinwar , the Hamas leader , who masterminded the Oct. 7 attacks on Israel and then spent more than a year evading one of the largest and most destructive manhunts in history , may finally have met his demise almost by fluke.As part of a regular military patrol -- rather than acting on specific intelligence -- it appears a group of Israeli soldiers and tank crew members opened fire on three suspected militants in a building in the southern Gaza city of Rafah on Wednesday.It was only <p> The Israel-Hamas war has devastated Gaza in ways that may be irreversible -- and a picture of the environmental harm is only just beginning to emerge , as violence spreads across the region.Israel has dropped thousands of bombs , wiping out most of Gaza 's tree cover and agricultural land in addition to buildings , while leaving behind toxic debris and destroying water and sanitation facilities . Greenhouse gas emissions are stacking up from explosions , military vehicles and overseas weapons shipments <p> The arrival of a U.S. high-altitude defence battery -- along with dozens of American troops -- will help boost Israel 's air defence systems , which , according to one Israeli defence expert , are straining under repeated attacks from Iran and its proxy in Lebanon , Hezbollah . " Israel 's air defence requires any help it can get especially if the war escalates and it turns into a war of attrition between Israel and Iran , " said Ehud Eilam , who used to serve in Israel 's military and is a longtime researcher <p> Canadians are looking back on how the events of Oct. 7 , resulting in a war between Hamas and Israel , changed their lives here in Canada as key voices favouring the Palestinian cause share the character arc they went through in discovering more about the Palestinian exception at their workplaces . <p> Monday marks one year since attacks in Israel by the militant group Hamas killed more than 1,000 people , sparking a conflict that has since spread across the Middle East and claimed thousands more lives.Rallies and vigils were held around the world to mark the sombre anniversary , including in Vancouver , where hundreds of members of the Jewish community gathered at the Burrard Bridge on Sunday to honour the victims and call for the release of hostages still held by Hamas.The rally took place a da <p> Jewish Montrealer Eric Hazan says he 's felt devastated since his cousin Omer Shem Tov was kidnapped by Hamas at the Nova music festival . " The whole family has been a mess , in shambles , " he said.A year ago , he woke up on a Saturday morning with his phone blowing up with notifications about what was happening in Israel . Within a few hours , his cousin 's family had tracked his phone in Gaza.It was too late . " He had just finished his service with the Israel Defence Forces , " he said . " He 's a loving <p> When Iran fired roughly 200 missiles toward Israel on Tuesday , Israeli air defences , with some assistance from the U.S. , were able to shoot down most of them while sustaining minimal damage , according to officials.Israel has vowed to strike back , as fears mount over further escalation of hostilities between the two countries . A quick overview of both countries might suggest that Iran , with a population more than nine times that of Israel 's and a significantly larger army , has an advantage.Indeed
