<p> International Development Minister Ahmed Hussen . The suspension of funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ( UNRWA ) by Canada and other international donors has dealt a devastating blow to the already fragile lives of Palestinian women and children , write Katherine Bullock , Tazeen Hasan , and Nawel Hamidi . The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade <p> Canada 's stance on Gaza must embody its commitment to gender equality , including gender-responsive humanitarian aid that addresses the unique needs of women and girls in this crisis . <p> Continued infrastructure funding for the Alliance of Canadian Research Centres on Gender-Based Violence has not been prioritized as Women and Gender Equality Minister Marci Ien and the government implement the National Action Plan on Gender-Based Violence , writes Nicole Letourneau . The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade <p> Employment Minister Carla Qualtrough holds a holds a media availability in the House of Commons foyer on June 2 , 2022 . The government should study the Nordic model of parental leave and to consider further reforms to the Canada Labour Code where parental leave rights are equal and longer for both parents . The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade <p> Canada is hailed as being progressive ; however , the current system is not flexible enough to meet the needs of modern families . <p> Governor General Mary Simon says addressing misogynist violence online is not just a ' women 's issue , ' and that the path toward gender equality will require male allies as well as stakeholders from various levels of government and industries , including tech and social media companies . Rideau Hall photograph by Sgt. Mathieu St-Amour <p> Women 's freedom of expression and safety are increasingly at risk the longer it takes the federal Liberals to fulfill a 2021 election promise to table legislation addressing cyberviolence , say advocates . <p> Women 's freedom of expression and safety are increasingly at risk the longer it takes the federal Liberals to fulfill a 2021 election promise to table legislation addressing cyberviolence , say advocates .
