<p> New York state Sen. James Skoufis , seen here speaking at the New York State Capitol , wants Democrats to emphasize " bread-and-butter " economic issues more . <p> Skoufis for DNC <p> Of all of the Democrats who have announced bids to chair the Democratic National Committee , New York state Sen. James Skoufis might be the most unexpected . <p> Skoufis , 37 , is not exactly a household name with a traditional DNC chair 's curriculum vitae . Among announced candidates to lead Democrats ' central governing body , he boasts neither the party management experience of Ben Wikler , chair of the Democratic Party of Wisconsin , or Ken Martin , chair of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party , nor the national profile of Martin O'Malley , who governed Maryland and ran for president before becoming commissioner of the Social Security Administration . <p> Advertisement <p> But Skoufis believes that his experience winning a fourth term to a Hudson Valley state Senate seat in a district Donald Trump won handily makes him the best contender to lead Democrats back to power . <p> " For 12 years , I have lived and breathed going out into communities , into meeting halls , and speaking to media outlets that are , let 's say , less than traditionally friendly to Democrats , " Skoufis told HuffPost , referring to his first state Assembly win in 2012 . " That 's the skillset that is most important here as we look to elect a new DNC chair . " <p> And at a time when many Democrats think it 's time for an extreme makeover , Skoufis is pitching his lack of a national profile or experience not as a liability but as an asset . He spoke to HuffPost by phone on Tuesday from a Holiday Inn in Scottsdale , Arizona , where he was camping out to introduce himself to state party chairs and other officers attending the Association of State Democratic Committees ' winter meeting . <p> " As the outsider candidate , I 'm the one that is best equipped to rebuild the DNC from the ground up , " Skoufis said . " No more tinkering around the edges , no more reforming around the margins . " <p> Advertisement <p> Skoufis will get his chance to test that proposition on Feb. 1 , when the DNC 's 448-person roster of consummate party insiders -- state party chairs , veteran consultants , activists , and elected officials -- decide who will succeed outgoing chair Jaime Harrison . <p> There may be more appetite from Democrats this year for a relative outsider -- Skoufis is , after all , still a seasoned politician -- following the decisive victory by Trump , a businessman who held no public office before first winning the presidency in 2016 . Skoufis ' candidacy calls to mind Pete Buttigieg 's DNC run in 2017 . Then the unknown mayor of South Bend , Indiana , Buttigieg dropped out shortly before voting began in the chair 's race , but used the bid as a springboard for a presidential run that he parlayed into national name recognition and a job as Biden 's transportation secretary . <p> Skoufis , of course , insists he is only focused on the job in front of him . But if Skoufis succeeds , just what kind of renovation does the New York lawmaker have in mind for the DNC ? <p> He wants a party that is more forthcoming , more financially transparent , more open to constructive feedback , more receptive to constituencies who feel left out of the Democratic tent and more present on hostile or nontraditional media platforms . <p> " Because I will not owe anything to the consultant class in Washington or the cocktail circuit in Washington , one of the things I will do is I will let every single vendor contract expire . " <p> - New York state Sen. James Skoufis <p> Advertisement <p> " Because I will not owe anything to the consultant class in Washington or the cocktail circuit in Washington , one of the things I will do is I will let every single vendor contract expire , " Skoufis said . " Many of these contracts are friends of a friend of a congressman . They 're getting seven , eight-figure contracts because they 're well connected with the DNC leadership . That ends on day 1 . " <p> Once those contracts are re-bid , Skoufis would explore ways to " shift an enormous amount of resources " from the DNC to state and local parties , labor groups and other partners operating outside of Washington . <p> Letting every vendor contract expire might be easier said than done , especially as the DNC prepares to help Democrats to win competitive gubernatorial races in New Jersey and Virginia in November 2025 . Skoufis is consulting an array of insiders and said he plans to hire an experienced executive director to help him manage the party , a massive organization with which he has no experience . <p> By the time I spoke to him , Skoufis had already said that President Joe Biden 's decision to stay in the 2024 presidential race as long as he did hurt Vice President Kamala Harris 's chances ( something Skoufis did not say publicly prior to Biden 's withdrawal , but claims that he would have admitted , had he been asked to weigh in on-record ) . <p> He also thinks that South Carolina should be given a chance to go first in the 2028 presidential primary , after holding the inaugural spot for the first time in this year 's non-competitive primary . Such a move that would put the DNC on yet another collision course with New Hampshire , where being the first primary in the nation is enshrined in state law , and dismay many Democrats who would like to see a less conservative state go first . Biden 's decision to have the DNC move the Palmetto State up on the primary schedule was controversial ; the DNC 's rules committee is set to take the matter up once again later this month . <p> Advertisement <p> When asked , Martin and O'Malley have not said whether they support changes to the primary schedule . Wikler 's campaign told HuffPost that it is the chair 's job to ensure a fair nominating process without putting a thumb on the scale before the rules committee and the broader DNC membership make their decision . <p> Without mentioning anyone by name , Skoufis has blasted rivals who have not said whether Biden should have withdrawn earlier , or articulated a position on the primary calendar . <p> James Skoufis won by 13 points in a seat that Trump carried overwhelmingly . He was elected to the state Assembly in 2012 , and the state Senate in 2018 . <p> Skoufis for DNC <p> Skoufis is the son of a Greek immigrant and got started in state politics shortly after graduating college . He has a light but audible New Yorker accent and an unassuming demeanor -- a reflection of both his birthplace in Flushing , Queens , and his upbringing in exurban-to-rural Orange County , just north of the city 's suburban rings . <p> Advertisement <p> Skoufis is putting a positive spin on his electoral achievements : He defeated his Republican opponent by more than 13 percentage points in a state Senate district that his campaign says went for Trump by 12 points . ( Detailed estimates are not yet publicly available , but Trump carried Orange County as a whole , which includes some areas not in Skoufis ' district , by eight points . ) <p> What Skoufis neglects to mention is that his Republican opponent , Dorey Houle , was likely hindered by the vote-splitting presence of a Conservative Party candidate on the ticket , Timothy Mitts , who received nearly 5% of the vote . Harris and Trump , by contrast , were the only two candidates at the top of the ticket in New York . ( In a follow-up exchange with HuffPost , Skoufis argued that he would also have picked up some of Mitts ' voters , had Mitts not been on the ballot . ) <p> Regardless , the Democratic Party as a whole might stand to learn something from the sheer breadth and diversity of the coalition Skoufis has assembled , with his mixture of moderate and progressive stances and his focus on local relationships . <p> Skoufis has distinguished himself from more progressive colleagues by opposing New York Gov . Kathy Hochul 's proposed tax increase to close a public transportation funding gap , as well as supporting her successful effort to give judges greater discretion to set cash bail amid a fight over bail reform . He is proud of securing the endorsements of the local firefighters union -- whose parent organization declined to endorse a presidential candidate -- and that of a number of law enforcement unions that mainly backed Republicans . <p> At the same time , Skoufis has managed to retain the support of the left-wing Working Families Party , along with that of key environmental , abortion rights and animal welfare groups , thanks to a progressive streak on a host of other issues . He has , for example , advocated for higher pay for home health care workers and introduced legislation that would allow New York to import cheaper prescription drugs from Canada . <p> Advertisement <p> Skoufis ' prescription for Democrats now is not that they abandon their progressive positions on social and cultural issues , but that they prioritize kitchen-table economic policies that have broader public appeal . <p> " We need to focus far more heavily on bread and butter , economic issues of affordability , working-class roots , talk about why we 're the party of unions . " <p> - New York state Sen. James Skoufis <p> " American voters know where we stand on abortion . The diminishing returns are complete , if we 're sending out the 700th glossy mailer in a battleground state on abortion , " Skoufis said . " We need to focus far more heavily on bread-and-butter economic issues of affordability , working-class roots , talk about why we 're the party of unions . We do not emphasize those types of priorities nearly enough , and so there needs to be a reorientation on policy emphasis . " <p> Skoufis also wants to signal patience and respect for people who have been alienated by some of the party 's progressive positions on public safety , immigration and transgender rights . <p> " We need to keep in mind , for example , that it was just 20 years ago that by a 60% to 40% margin the American electorate opposed marriage equality , " Skoufis continued . " We had to have an intense and public conversation with the American electorate to get them to the place where they are now , which is 70% support , 30% oppose . And we are the party that did that , because we engaged on the issue . " <p> Advertisement <p> Asked how he would handle anti-trans rhetoric from Republicans , Skoufis said he would go on offense , pointing out how the GOP has made the rights of a tiny minority group an issue . As an example , he pointed to the House GOP Conference 's mean-spirited response to the arrival of Rep.-elect Sarah McBride ( D-Del . ) , Congress ' first openly transgender member , which included a decision to require everyone in the U.S. Capitol complex to use bathrooms typical of their assigned sex at birth . <p> " In Congress , the incoming GOP majority -- I did n't hear one word for weeks about affordability , one word for weeks about having a government that makes us safer , and securing the border . All we heard about for the first couple of weeks after the election was talk about bathroom access , " he said . " So we have to point out that it 's the Republican Party that is needlessly obsessed with this issue . " <p> As for permitting transgender girls and women to compete in women 's sports , Skoufis said , " Let school districts decide . " <h> Democracy In The Balance <p> Do n't let this be the end of the free press . The free press is under attack -- and America 's future hangs in the balance . As other newsrooms bow to political pressure , HuffPost is not backing down . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give once or many more times , we appreciate your contribution to keeping our journalism free for all . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give just one more time or sign up again to contribute regularly , we appreciate you playing a part in keeping our journalism free for all . <p> At the same time , Skoufis said he believes constituencies on the left , or that do n't fit neatly into ideological boxes , have also been neglected by the Democratic Party . He would prioritize meeting with Arab Americans , progressives and college campus activists dissatisfied with the Biden administration 's decision to continue arming Israel amid the country 's devastating invasion of Gaza . <p> Asked whether he planned to endorse different policies to mollify the latter groups , Skoufis said only that he would begin by meeting with them . <p> Advertisement <p> " Let me answer that question with a question : When was the last time a DNC member , DNC chair , met with any of those stakeholders ? When has a DNC chair ever given them the respect that they deserve , and have met with them ? I 'm willing to bet a lot of money , it 's probably never . "
