<h> The real-life heist , where $18.7 million worthy of maple syrup was stolen from a Quebec storage facility , is the basis for the new Prime Video series <p> What 's more Canadian than a crime involving stolen maple syrup ! The real-life heist , in which $18.7 million worth of maple syrup was stolen from a Quebec storage facility , is the basis for the new Prime Video show The Sticky , starring Margo Martindale , Chris Diamantopoulos , Guillaume Cyr , and featuring Jamie Lee Curtis . <p> The six-episode series starts by introducing us to Ruth Landry ( Martindale ) a maple syrup farmer who finds out her farm has been shut down , deemed an " un-licensed operator , " by the Quebec Maple Syrup Association , as she 's caring for her comatose husband . Fed up with the association , run by a man named Leonard ( Guy Nadon ) , who 's not really Ruth 's biggest fan , she resorts to a maple syrup heist and enlists Bostonian gangster Mike Byrne ( Chris Diamantopoulos ) and a security guard with the Association , Remy Bouchard ( Guillaume Cyr ) , in an attempt for Ruth to save her farm . <p> But we have Curtis to thank for getting Martindale on The Sticky , giving us a particularly witty , tough and endearing portrayal of the show 's lead character . Curtis takes on a smaller role that appears near the end of the series , where she has a particularly great moment with Martindale . <p> " Jamie 's only criteria for taking the part was , ' Can I flirt with Margo on camera ? ' " Brian Donovan , the show 's co-creator , executive producer , showrunner and writer told Yahoo Canada in Toronto . " We said yes and she was in . " <p> " She called me and said , ' I want you to do this show . ' She said , ' I was going to do it , but Halloween came into the picture and I ca n't get out of it . So I thought , who can I think of that 's a lot like me ? ' And she said , ' You , ' " Martindale shared . " I said , ' Oh , really . In what world . ' " <p> Donovan and Ed Herro , also a co-creator , executive producer , showrunner and writer on the show , highlighted that watching Curtis and Martindale together was a delight . <p> " Getting them together on set , it almost felt like a like a video game , like two about to fight each other , " Herro said . " So fun to watch them . ... Then when the camera stopped , it was just a love fest . " <p> Four doctors were killed at the Kamal Adwan Hospital in besieged northern Gaza on Friday , after Israeli forces stormed the compound , killing and injuring dozens of people in areas surrounding the facility , eyewitnesses told CNN . <p> Quebec Premier Fran ? ois Legault said Friday afternoon that he wants to ban praying in public and that he was considering using the notwithstanding clause to do so.The premier was giving an overview of the past year in Quebec City before lawmakers break until January when he made the announcement . He said he had instructed his team to look into ways to put the ban in place . " Seeing people praying in the streets , in public parks , is not something we want in Quebec , " Legault said.His comments , a dep <p> " Studied all day . Going to the club now , " is how one entry begins . Another describes the author 's outfit of the day : " Wore my pink pencil skirt and new drawstring blouse . Pearls and pearl earrings . My hair was in waves - loose . " Subscribe to The Post Most newsletter for the most important and interesting stories from The Washington Post . These are some of the journal entries Helaina Ferraioli shared on her TikTok last week . They are n't her own accounts , though - they were written by Charlotte Buc <p> Friday marks the 35th anniversary of the tragic Polytechnique massacre in Montreal , where a gunman targeted and killed 14 women simply because of their gender , sparking a nationwide reckoning on violence against women . <p> Kenan Thompson tells Variety that new cast members at " SNL " have to " pay their dues a little bit " when it comes to starting salaries at the NBC sketch show . " It 's pretty notorious that it 's more so about having the job than getting paid for the job , " Thomspon , who declined to give specific salary numbers , told ...
