<p> Maysam Abu Khreibeh , right , and Farzana Doctor pose for a portrait in Toronto in Toronto , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . Four of the five people arrested and charged at a protest at the 2023 Giller Prize awards ceremony have had their charges withdrawn . <p> Maysam Abu Khreibeh , right , and Farzana Doctor pose for a portrait in Toronto in Toronto , Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 . Four of the five people arrested and charged at a protest at the 2023 Giller Prize awards ceremony have had their charges withdrawn . <p> The charges were withdrawn at a downtown Toronto courtroom on Dec. 2 , 2024 , more than 12 months after the ceremony . <p> On Nov. 13 , 2023 , a small group of protesters took the stage at the event at the Four Seasons Hotel in Toronto , where they drew attention to the ties between the Giller Prize 's lead sponsor , Scotiabank , and an Israeli arms manufacturer . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> After the event , Toronto police charged three people with one count each of committing mischief and using forged documents to gain access to the invitation-only , televised award ceremony at the Four Seasons Hotel . In May , police charged a fourth person with committing mischief in connection with the protest . Police charged a fifth person on Sept. 30 ; they are scheduled to make their next court appearance in February 2025 . <p> Riaz Sayani , a criminal defence lawyer who represents one of the individuals charged last November , told the Star this week that the protesters should never have been criminally charged . <p> " This was a non-violent , peaceful protest against what many legal experts have described as a genocide , " Sayani said in an email . " Canadians have the constitutional right to protest in this way . The police 's decision to criminally charge the defendants disrespected that right . " <p> " In my view , there was also no reasonable prospect of conviction , " Sayani said . " To mislabel this kind of protest as a criminal act has a chilling effect and undermines everyone 's right to free expression . " <p> The Toronto Police Service declined to comment specifically on the Crown 's decision to withdraw charges , but emphasized that the decision " in this case does not negate the reasonable grounds upon which charges were laid , nor does it reflect on the credibility of the allegations or the validity of the charges . " <p> A media spokesperson representing the Ministry of the Attorney General also declined to comment , and referred the Star to the Crown Prosecution Manual , stating that decisions are " based on strictly legal and objective criteria without political input . " <p> On Friday morning , one of the four protesters addressed reporters for the first time at a press conference in Toronto organized by CanLit Responds , a group of authors and cultural workers organizing towards " a literary world free of arms funding . " <p> " In the year that we were left in limbo , we were worried about our employment opportunities . We were expected to remain low and to keep our heads down , " said Maysam Abu Khreibeh , 26 . <p> " As a young Palestinian writer and organizer , I know that this act of protest is the bare minimum of what we can do when bunker-busting bombs are dropping on our families back home . I asked myself many times this year , what is the role of the writer in a world that manufactures our consent for genocide ? To write a new world , and to not mince our words . " <p> Farzana Doctor , an author who has pledged to boycott the Giller Prize , also spoke at the press conference . " The protesters ' disruption of the Giller Gala was so valuable to our writing community . It shook up the sense of business as usual in CanLit , " she said . <p> On Friday , Sayani released another statement to the press . <p> " The criminalizing of the Giller protestors is consistent with a disturbing trend in Toronto over the last year , in which more than 100 individuals have been criminally charged for pro-Palestine expression . We see this same trend more broadly in Ontario and across Canada , " he said . " The police 's heavy-handed approach must end . " <p> Minutes into the ceremony , two protesters unexpectedly took the stage , interrupting host Rick Mercer with signs that read " Scotiabank funds genocide . " Moments later , another protester began shouting from the floor of the event , drawing attention to bank 's investment in Elbit Systems . " Elbit Systems is supplying the Israeli military 's genocide against the Palestinian people , " the protester said . <p> Later in the evening , as the winner of the $100,000 prize was being announced , the event was briefly disrupted by protesters for a second time . <p> At the time , Scotiabank 's subsidiary , 1832 Asset Management , was the third-largest shareholder in Elbit Systems . Since then , 1832 Asset Management has cut its stake in Elbit Systems . Their security holdings , which were previously valued at about $500 million ( U.S ) , now stand at $113 million , according to August 2024 filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission . <p> Over the next few months , the Giller Foundation 's financial partnership with Scotiabank , which dates back to 2005 , increasingly came under fire . <p> In July , more than 40 authors signed another open letter , also authored by CanLit Responds , calling on the Giller Foundation to end its partnership with Scotiabank . In September , eight former Giller Prize winners , including Michael Ondaatje , Madeleine Thien and Omar El Akkad , wrote an opinion piece in the Star calling on the Giller 's funders " to divest from companies whose products are enabling the mass killing in Gaza . "
