<p> In tying the border to security , Leblanc made no attempt to correct the mistaken and flawed assumptions about global migration underpinning Trump 's anti-immigrant rhetoric , nor did he defend the legal right of people in danger to seek asylum . <p> This early response to Trump 's second term is worrisome on several levels , most notably because no conversation about border controls should begin at the border . <p> Instead , discussions about managing and responding to migration must consider the profound root causes that compel people to contemplate where , when and how to move . Those include systemic inequalities and environmental degradation . <p> The federal government should therefore reverse course and adhere to conventions that guarantee the right to seek asylum , including at the Canada-U.S. border . <p> The United Nations ' 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights guarantees the right to seek asylum , but states this " right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations . " <p> Under the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees , the right is protected by Article 33 on what 's known as non-refoulement . <p> Drafters of the convention recognized that security would be a concern to signatories . As a result , a caveat was added after a proposal by French and British delegates . Supported by Canada , it essentially stipulates that refugees who have been convicted of serious crimes forgo their right to seek asylum . <p> Caution was woven throughout both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 1951 Convention -- though you 'd never know it from the way modern-day politicians demonize migration and asylum . <h> Failing refugees again <p> By treating migration and asylum seekers as a problem , the federal government is undermining international human rights and refugee regimes , which emerged precisely because governments had failed to help previously . <p> Canada is now showing the same disregard that led to the need for the 1951 Convention in the first place . The convention was necessary in part because of the failure to assist refugees prior to and during the Second World War . This included stopping efforts like the 1938 Convention Concerning the Status of Refugees Coming from Germany , which extended minimal protection to refugees of the Third Reich and later to Jewish refugees from Austria and Czechoslovakia . <p> Limited in scope and the number of signatories at only seven , the 1938 convention gave refugees from Germany " without prejudice " the " right of sojourn and residence " in signatory territories . However , widespread antisemitism meant very few people actually benefitted . <p> Other efforts , such as a week-long conference in Evian , France in July 1938 , failed to secure broader commitments . Of the 32 countries in attendance , only the Dominican Republic formally committed to accepting any additional refugees . Globally , Shanghai was one of the few open ports for Jewish refugees seeking to escape persecution in Europe . <p> The Evian conference ended up being a victory for Nazi Germany , which correctly believed states would not overextend themselves on Jewish refugees . The Holocaust was in part the tragic result of this widespread failure to act and the insistence that Jewish refugees themselves were a problem . <h> Lessons of the MS St. Louis <p> These failures have since been recognized and to some extent reconciled publicly . <p> The apology referred to the approximately 900 German Jewish passengers aboard the MS St. Louis , which set sail for Cuba from Hamburg in July 1939 . <p> En route , the Cuban government cancelled previously approved transit visas . As a result , the ship 's captain , Gustav Shr ? der , sought another port of entry . Both the U.S. and Canadian governments refused admission and the ship returned to Europe ; 254 of the passengers later died in the Holocaust . <p> During deliberations on the 1951 Convention , an observer from CARITAS , a Catholic relief organization , seemingly evoked the MS St. Louis , describing " a party of Jewish refugees sailing on a ' ghost ship ' had scuttled itself after it had been turned away from any port at which it had sought refuge . " <p> Six years after Trudeau 's apology , and 85 years after the voyage of the MS St. Louis , the lessons about the dangers of demonizing refugees appear to have been lost . <h> Eroding refugee protections <p> The deaths of six million people in the Holocaust shaped the subsequent post-1945 reconstruction , as did the onset of the Cold War . <p> As American historian Mark Mazower detailed in his book No Enchanted Palace , this aspirational rebuilding had fundamental and deeply problematic contradictions , most notably due to continued western imperialism in many parts of Asia , Africa and the Middle East . <p> But in terms of refugee protection , the reconstruction was notable for the ways in which previous failures were meant to be corrected by the post-1945 solutions . Refugee protections , including the right to seek asylum , exist today precisely because states had previously failed refugees and migrants . The post-1945 period was about correcting these mistakes . <p> The right to seek asylum is now in jeopardy globally , as is refugee protection generally . Refugee camps have even been attacked by Israeli forces in Gaza , leading to critiques about the very notion of refuge . <p> In Canada , tough talk on border security is compromising the fragile legal structures that were introduced in the wake of the human tragedies of the Second World War . This does n't just jeopardize the right to seek asylum , it threatens the very foundations of contemporary international human rights and refugee regimes . <p> Canada must not turn its back on legal obligations built on past failures , regardless of what Trump does . More than ever , the focus must be on the root causes of migration and displacement , not on the migrants themselves .
