<p> Israel said Tuesday it had bombed more than 350 military sites in Syria during the previous 48 hours , targeting " most of the strategic weapons stockpiles " in the country . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the wave of airstrikes in neighboring Syria was necessary to keep the weapons from being used against Israel following the Syrian government 's stunning collapse . <p> Israel also acknowledged its troops were pushing into a border buffer zone inside Syria , which was established after the 1973 Mideast war . However , Israel denied its forces were advancing Tuesday toward the Syrian capital of Damascus . <p> The United States said Tuesday it would recognize and support a new Syrian government that renounces terrorism , destroys chemical weapons stocks and protects the rights of minorities and women . <p> Syria 's nearly 14-year civil war killed nearly half a million people and displaced half of the country 's prewar population of 23 million , becoming a proxy battlefield for regional and international powers . <p> <p> Here 's the Latest : <p> Syria 's rebel government will administer the country during transition period <p> BEIRUT -- Syria 's transitional government will made up of members from the rebel-led administration that ruled an insurgent stronghold in the country 's northwest , the new prime minister said Tuesday , who called the task " a great challenge . " <p> The caretaker Syrian government , which will oversee the country 's affairs until March , held its first meeting Tuesday since overthrowing former President Bashar Assad . It was attended by the departing Prime Minister Mohammad Ghazi Jalali and other ministers along with new Prime Minister Mohammed al-Bashir . He had led the so-called " salvation government " in areas controlled by rebel groups -- led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS -- that have taken control of much of the country . <p> " We were tasked by the general command with managing the affairs of the Syrian government during a transitional period , " Bashir said in a statement following the meeting in Damascus . He added that he hopes ministers in the former Syrian government will assist the new government during this transitional period . <p> " The caretaker government was formed from a number of ministers of the revolutionary government , which is the Syrian Salvation Government , and this government is a temporary caretaker government that will last until March 2025 , until the constitutional issues are resolved , " Bashir said . <p> The insurgent alliance is led by a former senior al-Qaida militant , Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who cut ties with the extremist group years ago and has promised representative government and religious tolerance . <p> Thousands scour Syria 's most horrific prison but find no sign of their loved ones <p> SAYDNAYA , Syria -- Tens of thousands came to Saydnaya Prison from all over Syria after the fall of former President Bashar Assad to search for their loved ones . The place so notorious for its horrors was long known as " the slaughterhouse . " <p> For the past two days , all have been looking for signs of loved ones who disappeared years or even decades ago into the secretive , sprawling prison just outside Damascus . <p> But hope gave way to despair Monday . People opened the heavy iron doors lining the hallways to find cells inside empty . With sledgehammers , shovels and drills , men pounded holes in floors and walls , looking for what they believed were secret dungeons , or chasing sounds they thought they heard from underground . They found nothing . <p> Insurgents freed dozens of people from the Saydnaya military prison on Sunday when Damascus fell . Since then , almost no one has been found . <p> " Where is everyone ? Where are everyone 's children ? Where are they ? " said Ghada Assad , breaking down in tears . <p> An estimated 150,000 people were detained or went missing in Syria since 2011 -- and tens of thousands of them are believed to have gone through Saydnaya . <p> A top US general was in eastern Syria meeting with Kurdish-led group <p> WASHINGTON -- The top U.S. military commander for the Middle East was on the ground in Syria on Tuesday , meeting with a Kurish-led , U.S.-allied force at several bases in the country 's east , U.S. Central Command said . Army Gen. Erik Kurilla visited with U.S. military commanders and troops as well as the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces . <p> It was n't clear if he met with SDF leader Mazloum Abdi , and U.S. Central Command did not respond to a request for details about his visit or with whom he met . U.S. officials said they did not know what his message to the SDF was . <p> The U.S has about 900 troops in Syria , including forces working with Kurdish allies in the northeast to prevent any resurgence of the Islamic State group . <p> In a press release , Central Command said Kurilla received an " assessment of force protection measures , the rapidly evolving situation , and ongoing efforts to prevent ISIS from exploiting the current situation . " <p> Kurilla then went on to Iraq where he met with leaders in Baghdad . <p> UN says humanitarian aid is still being looted in Syria <p> UNITED NATIONS -- The United Nations says it still getting reports about the looting of warehouses with humanitarian aid in a number of areas in Syria , including around the capital Damascus . <p> U.N . spokesman Stephane Dujarric told reporters Tuesday that U.N . agencies and their partners are working to identify the extent of looting at the warehouses , including those of U.N . agencies and the Syrian Arab Red Crescent . <p> Dujarric said U.N . aid officials report that " the humanitarian situation remains volatile across Syria , with reports of people continuing to be displaced . " <p> Humanitarian officials reported that 25 trucks carrying U.N . aid crossed from Turkey to northwest Syria , which the situation is now relatively calm , the U.N . spokesman said . <p> All 11 receptions opened in Idlib in the northwest to host newly displaced families were empty as of Monday , Dujarric said . <p> In the northeast , he said , authorities report that as of Tuesday 100,000 people have been displaced due to fighting in Tal Rifaat and other parts of Aleppo governorate . <p> Dujarric said the U.N . ' s partners report that " reception centers in Tabqa and Raqqa have reached full capacity , and more than 200 sites -- including municipal buildings , schools , mosques , and stadiums -- are being used to accommodate newly displaced people . " <p> BEIRUT -- The Lebanese army said Tuesday that " unidentified gunmen " crossed the border from Syria into eastern Lebanon 's Bekaa province and approached a Lebanese border post . <p> In a statement , the army said the gunmen fired into the air and seized equipment from an evacuated Syrian army post in the outskirts of Kfar Fouq , near Rashaya al-Wadi , in the western part of Bekaa province . Lebanese army personnel responded with warning shots , forcing the group to retreat back into Syrian territory . <p> The Lebanese army did not report any injuries or provide further details about the identity of the gunmen . <p> Yemen 's Houthi rebels fire drones and a missile at 3 commercial ships escorted by U.S. Navy <p> WASHINGTON -- Yemen 's Houthi rebels launched multiple drones and a missile at three commercial ships being escorted in the Gulf of Aden by U.S. Navy ships , a U.S. official said Tuesday . <p> There was no damage and no injuries . The official , who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss military operations , said U.S. Navy destroyers , and Navy helicopter and a French Air Force aircraft shot down four of the drones and the missile . The three U.S. affiliated flagged ships were sailing east toward Djibouti . <p> The Iran-backed Houthis have targeted shipping through the key waterway for more than a year , attacks they say are meant to force an end to Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Israel says it bombed hundreds of military sites across Syria in past 48 hours <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel 's military said it bombed more than 350 sites in Syria during the previous 48 hours , targeting " most of the strategic weapons stockpiles " in the country . <p> There is concern that , with the sudden collapse of the Syrian government , weapons stockpiles could be seized by jihadi militants . <p> Warplanes hit what Israel said were Syrian air defense systems , military airfields , missile depots , and dozens of weapons production sites in the cities of Damascus , Homs , Tartus , Latakia , and Palmyra , the Israeli army statement said . <p> Netanyahu says Israel struck across Syria to knock out military assets <p> JERUSALEM -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu confirmed Tuesday that his country 's military launched a wave of airstrikes across Syria to destroy the toppled government 's leftover " military capabilities , " and said Israel wants relations with the new government emerging Syria . <p> Hours after Israeli warplanes pounded Syria , Netanyahu said Israeli does n't want to meddle in Syria 's internal affairs , but would take necessary steps to protect Israel 's security and prevent jihadi militants from seizing the Syrian army assets . <p> He warned that if the new Syrian government " allows Iran to re-establish itself in Syria or allows the transfer of Iranian weapons or any other weapons to Hezbollah , or attacks us -- we will respond forcefully and we will exact a heavy price from it . " <p> He spoke in a video statement recorded at the Kirya military headquarters in Tel Aviv , after his first day of testimony in his corruption trial . <p> Crowds of Syrians are still celebrating Assad 's fall in the main square of Damascus <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- In Umayyad Square in Damascus , Syrians celebrated the fall of President Bashar Assad for the third day on Tuesday despite Israeli airstrikes across the country . Insurgents who recently took control of the capital city tried to impose a new rule banning the celebratory gunfire . There were a few violators , and much less deafening gunfire . <p> Protesters climbed the square 's central monument to wave the Syrian revolutionary flag . On the ground , crowds chanted : " Out with Bashar ! Out with Bashar ! " Assad fled to Russia over the weekend after a lightning rebel offensive toppled his brutal police state . <p> Demonstrators from different provinces marched in the square in groups , celebrating Assad 's fall . Men on motorcycles and horses paraded into the square . <p> One woman from Idlib province shouted that the Israeli strikes ruined the joy of ousting Assad . " Why are you striking us ? We just deposed a tyrant , " she said . <p> Hamzeh Hamada , 22 , said this was the first time he had gone out to a demonstration . <p> " We want the country to get better , to live in dignity and be like other countries that respect citizens ' rights and where there are no bribes , " he said . " We have suffered a lot from bribes . ... We had to bribe people for very minor things ; things that should be our right . " <p> Abdul-Jalil Diab was taking a stroll with his brothers in another square in western Damascus . He said he came back from Jordan the day Damascus fell . He was there studying German to prepare to move to Germany and said he is now reconsidering his plans . He was ecstatic , saying words ca n't describe how he feels . <p> " We are happy to get rid of the corrupt regime that was based on bribes . The whole country feels better . Everyone is happy and celebrating , " Abdul-Jalil Diab said . <p> QAMISHLI , Syria -- Residents of northeast Syria in the area around Qamishli airport said Tuesday they heard explosions overnight after an airstrike hit trucks loaded with rockets and ammunition that were heading to a military base in Tartab . <p> " We do n't know the story . It was only in the morning when we realized they are trucks loaded with ammunition , leftovers of the former army , the regime , " said Ibrahim al-Thalaj , who lives near the base . He said residents assumed that the strikes were Israeli . <p> Israel has carried out a heavy wave of airstrikes across Syria targeting military infrastructure after Syrian insurgents toppled the government of Bashar Assad . However , Turkish security officials said Tuesday that the strike in Qamishli was carried out by Turkey , targeting weapons and ammunition that were abandoned by the Syrian army and seized by Syrian Kurdish militants . <p> The explosions lasted for over 20 minutes after the strike , and many houses in the surrounding area were damaged as a result , residents of the area said . <p> " We just felt a strike hitting . It hit the first one ( truck ) and we saw the other trucks retreating back , and from there rockets and shells started flying over , " said Hamid al-Asaad , an eyewitness from Qub al-Zeki village in Qamishli . <p> " We were sitting when these explosions started to hit the house , " said Mahmoud Hamza of Tartab . " It was hitting randomly and we did n't know where it was coming from . ... Once we got out of our house , a rocket hit the house . " <p> There were no details released by the local Kurdish administration regarding the explosions , but members of the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces blocked the road to the base . <p> BRUSSELS -- The European Union 's top diplomat is concerned that Syria might violently fall apart like neighboring Iraq , or Libya and Afghanistan if its territorial integrity and the rights of minorities are not protected . <p> " The transition will present huge challenges in Syria and in the region , " EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas told European lawmakers on Tuesday during a special hearing . <p> " There are legitimate concerns about the risks of sectarian violence , extremist resurgence and the governance vacuum , all of which must be averted . We must avoid a repeat of the horrific scenarios of Iraq , Libya and Afghanistan , " she said . <p> " The rights of all Syrians , including those of many minority groups , must be protected , " she said . " It is crucial to preserve the territorial integrity of Syria , and to respect its independence , its sovereignty , as well as the state institutions . " <p> Kallas also said the collapse of the government has shown that Assad 's backers in Russia and Iran " could neither afford to do it any longer , nor had any interest of being present in the aftermath . " <p> " They are weakened , distracted and overstretched in other theaters in the broader Middle East , but also in Ukraine , " she said . <p> ANKARA , Turkey -- Turkey 's intelligence agency , MIT , has attacked a convoy of trucks that was allegedly carrying missiles , heavy weapons and ammunition that were abandoned by the Syrian government and reportedly seized by Syrian Kurdish militias , Turkish security officials said Tuesday . <p> The officials said 12 trucks , two tanks and two ammunition depots were " destroyed " in aerial strikes in the city of Qamishli , near the border with Turkey in northeast Syria . The officials provided the information on condition of anonymity in line with Turkish regulations . They did not say when the attack occurred . <p> The officials said the intelligence agency detected that weapons left by the Syrian government forces were being moved to warehouses belonging to the Syrian Kurdish People 's Defense Units , or YPG . Turkey views the group as a terrorist organization because of its links to the banned Kurdish militants that have led a decadeslong insurgency in Turkey . <p> According to the officials , he group was allegedly planning to use the equipment and supplies against Turkish security forces . <p> WASHINGTON -- The White House is signaling its approval of Israel 's strikes against Syrian military and alleged chemical weapons targets and the seizure of a buffer zone in the Syrian Golan Heights after the fall of the Assad government . <p> " These are exigent operations to eliminate what they believe are imminent threats to their national security , " White House national security spokesman John Kirby said Tuesday , saying the U.S. would leave it up to the Israelis to discuss details of their operations . <p> " They have as always the right to defend themselves , " Kirby said . He declined to detail and U.S. intelligence cooperation with the Israelis that went into the strikes . Kirby said the White House was reasserting its support of the 1974 Golan Heights disengagement agreement , but did n't criticize the Israeli seizure of the demilitarized zone . <p> Israel has a long history of seizing territory during wars with its neighbors and occupying it indefinitely , citing security concerns . Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed it in a move not recognized internationally , except by the United States . <p> US would recognize new Syrian government if it renounces terrorism , destroys chemical weapons and protects minorities <p> WASHINGTON -- The Biden administration says it will recognize and support a new Syrian government that renounces terrorism , destroys chemical weapons stocks and protects the rights of minorities and women . <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement Tuesday that the U.S. would work with groups in Syria and regional partners to ensure that the transition from President Bashar Assad 's deposed government runs smoothly . He was not specific about which groups the U.S. would work with . <p> Blinken says Syrians should decide their future and that other countries should " support an inclusive and transparent process " and not interfere . <p> " The United States will recognize and fully support a future Syria government that results from this process , " he said . " We stand prepared to lend all appropriate support to all of Syria 's diverse communities and constituencies . " <p> Syrian civilians relish moments of freedom after Assad 's fall <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Jihad Mustafa Shibani was taking his new motorcycle for a spin with a friend around the house of the deposed Syrian president in western Damascus on Tuesday . <p> Shibani was released from prison a week before the capital Damascus fell , after he served two years on charges of buying his motorcycle using foreign currency on accusations he was dealing in dollars . He was tortured for 15 days and and given a quick trial where he was sentenced for two years , he said . He was released the day Aleppo fell to the insurgents . <p> " Everything was banned in Syria . The ( Assad loyalists ) only could use it , " Shibani said . He said he has never been to this neighborhood , because it was taken over by Assad , his family and supporters . " For 50 years , my family 's house is near here , and we do n't know anything about it . ... The Syrian people had been oppressed , you ca n't imagine . " <p> Shibani said he has no fear of the rebel newcomers who have taken control of the country . " We are not afraid . There can be no one more unjust than Bashar . Impossible . " <p> Lebanon is looking into reports that Syria 's spy chief and other officials fled to Lebanon <p> BEIRUT -- Lebanon 's prime minister is in contact with security and judicial officials to follow up on reports that senior members of President Bashar Assad 's government have fled to Lebanon . Najib Mikati 's office quoted him as saying that Lebanon abides by international laws regarding people who cross its borders . <p> Rami Abdurrahman of the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an opposition war monitor , said that several top security officials have entered Lebanon over the past two days . <p> Abdurrahman added that Syria 's former intelligence chief Ali Mamlouk , who is wanted in Lebanon over two bombings in 2012 in the northern city of Tripoli that killed dozens , was allegedly brought to Lebanon by the Hezbollah militant group and was staying in a southern suburb of Beirut where the group has deep support . <p> Lebanon 's Interior Minister Bassam Mawlawi , whose ministry is in charge of border crossings , told reporters Tuesday that no person who is wanted in Lebanon entered the country through legal border crossings . <p> There are dozens of illegal border crossings between Lebanon and Syria where people are usually smuggled in and out of Lebanon , but it was not possible to independently confirm whether Mamlouk had entered Lebanon . <p> UN resumes hu <p> manitarian operations in two areas of northwest Syria <p> GENEVA -- The United Nations says humanitarian operations in two major areas in northwestern Syria have resumed , deploying food , medical supplies , fuel and other needed services and supplies . <p> Spokesman Jens Laerke of the U.N . Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs reported that some health facilities were " overwhelmed " -- in part due to staff shortages -- and many border crossings have been closed , disrupting supply chains . <p> OCHA said humanitarian operations in some parts of northwestern Syria were put on hold in the early days of the recent escalation , and resumed on Monday . <p> " As of yesterday , all humanitarian organizations in Idlib and northern Aleppo have resumed operations , " Laerke told reporters at a U.N . briefing in Geneva . <p> He said the three border crossings from Turkey used by the U.N . to deliver assistance into Syria remain open and " we are providing assistance in the northwest , including to those who have been newly displaced . " <p> Even before the latest escalation , which led President Bashar Assad to flee the country , nearly 17 million people in Syria needed humanitarian assistance . More than 1 million have been displaced across Idlib , Aleppo , Hama and Homs since the escalation . <p> He also issued a warning to Syria 's rebels , saying that " whoever follows Assad 's path will end up like Assad -- we will not allow an extremist Islamic terrorist entity to act against Israel across its border while putting its citizens at risk . " <p> Speaking at a naval base in Haifa , Katz said the Israeli navy " operated last night to destroy the Syrian fleet and with great success . " <p> Video showing the smoking wreckage of what appeared to be small Syrian naval ships in the port at Latakia was broadcast by Saudi-owned television station Al-Hadath on Tuesday . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , which has closely tracked the conflict since the civil war erupted in 2011 , said Israel targeted Syrian warships , military warehouses and an air-defense facility on the coast . <p> Katz added that he had instructed the army to establish a " defense zone free of weapons and terrorist threats in southern Syria , without a permanent Israeli presence , in order to prevent terrorism in Syria from taking root and organizing . " It was unclear if the demilitarized zone would reach beyond the buffer zone that Israel has taken over in the border area . <p> Israel has a long history of seizing territory during wars with its neighbors and , citing security concerns . Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed it in a move not recognized internationally , except by the United States . <p> Syria 's government will gradually transfer power to interim cabinet <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Members of the Syrian government under ousted President Bashar Assad will gradually transfer power to a new transitional cabinet headed by Mohammed al-Bashir . <p> The departing government met with al-Bashir for the first time since Assad fled Damascus over the weekend . Al-Bashir had previously led the " salvation government " running the rebel stronghold in northwest Syria . <p> Al-Bashir told reporters after the meeting that the ministers discussed transferring the portfolios to the interim government during the transitional period until the beginning of March . <p> He said that in the coming days the new government will decide on each ministry . <p> Banks and shops reopen in Damascus <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Banks and shops are reopening in Damascus after the chaos and confusion of the first two days following the ouster of President Bashar Assad . <p> Sadi Ahmad , manager of Syria Gulf Bank , said life is returning to normal . A customer who came to withdraw money from an ATM was surprised to see it functioning . <p> At the historic Hamadiyeh market , fighters who seized power were still standing guard but shops had reopened -- even an ice cream stand . <p> Resident Maysoun Al-Qurabi said she was initially " against what happened , " referring to the insurgency , but changed her mind after seeing footage of rebels releasing inmates from the notorious Saydnaya prison . <p> " People are at ease and secure now , " she said . " Before , people were hungry and scared . " <p> Syrian Christians are cautious after insurgents seize power <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Minority Christians in Syria have been living in a state of uneasy anticipation since insurgents headed by the Islamic militant group Hayat Tahrir Al-Sham took control after ousting President Bashar Assad . <p> Mazen Kalash , a resident of Bab Touma , a Christian neighborhood in Damascus , said he wants to know the plans of the new government that will be formed by the rebels . <p> " The important thing is to feel safe , bring order , law and respect to the citizens , " he said . " We need to be able to work whatever we want and do whatever we want without any interference from anyone . " <p> The insurgents have so far attempted to reassure minorities that they will be protected . <p> Large numbers of Syrian Christians , who made up 10% of the population , fled after the civil war erupted in 2011 . Many of those who stayed supported Assad out of fear they might be targeted by Islamist insurgents . <p> GENEVA -- The U.N . envoy for Syria says armed groups that drove out President Bashar Assad have " been sending good messages " about national unity and inclusiveness but acknowledges that a Security Council resolution still counts the leading one as a terrorist group . <p> With Syria 's future and stability still very much in flux since Assad 's departure over the weekend , Geir Pedersen suggested that the international community needs to help the country get through this turbulent moment . <p> " We are still in what I would call a very fluid period . Things are not settled , " Pedersen told reporters at U.N . offices in Geneva on Tuesday . " There is a real opportunity for change , but this opportunity needs to be grasped by the Syrians themselves and supported by the U.N . and the international community . " <p> Referring to Israeli military strikes in Syria , Pedersen said it was " extremely important that we now do n't see any action from any international country that destroys the possibility for this transformation in Syria to take place . " <p> The insurgents are led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or HTS , which grew out of an al-Qaida-affiliate called the Nusra Front that the Security Council listed as a terror group in a 2015 resolution . <p> " This is obviously a complicating factor for all of us , " Pedersen said . " But we also have to be honest , we have to look at the facts and to see what has happened during the last nine years . " <p> " The reality so far is that the HTS and also the other armed groups have been sending good messages to the Syrian people , " he said . " They have been sending messages of unity , of inclusiveness , and frankly speaking , also , we have seen in ( the captured cities of ) Aleppo and in Hama ... reassuring things on the ground . " <p> Ahmad al-Sharaa , previously known by his nom de guerre Abu Mohammed al-Golani , the leader of the insurgency and the founder of both groups Nusra and HTS , cut ties with al-Qaida in 2016 and says he is committed to pluralism and religious tolerance . <p> Turkey condemns Israeli seizure of a buffer zone on Syrian border <p> ANKARA , Turkey -- Turkey has " strongly " condemned Israel 's advance into Syrian territory , saying it was in violation of a 1974 agreement on a buffer zone inside Syria . <p> " We strongly condemn Israel 's violation of the 1974 Separation of Forces Agreement , its entry into the separation zone between Israel and Syria , and its advance into Syrian territory , " Turkey 's Foreign Ministry said in a statement . <p> The ministry accused Israel of " displaying a mentality of an occupier " at a time when the possibility of peace and stability had emerged in Syria . The statement also reiterated Turkey 's support to Syria 's " sovereignty , political unity , and territorial integrity . " <p> Israeli troops on Sunday entered the buffer zone that had been established after the 1973 Mideast war and the military said it would deploy in " several other places necessary for ( Israel 's ' ) defense . " <p> Netanyahu testifies he works 17-18 hours daily engulfed in meetings <p> TEL AVIV , Israel -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says he works 17 to 18 hours a day and that he is engulfed in meetings , especially during the past year that Israel has been fighting wars . <p> Netanyahu was testifying in his long-running corruption trial . He has denied charges of fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . <p> " If only I could steal away five minutes to enjoy some time with my wife , " he told the court Tuesday . <p> Israeli military official says troops plan to seize a buffer zone inside Syria <p> TEL AVIV , Israel -- An Israeli military official says troops plan to seize a buffer zone inside Syria as well as " a few more points that have strategic meaning . " <p> The official spoke Tuesday on condition of anonymity in line with regulations . The official dismissed reports of a larger Israeli invasion as " rumors . " <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday that Israeli forces were moving to control a roughly 400-square-kilometer ( 155-square-mile ) demilitarized buffer zone in Syrian territory . The buffer zone between Syria and the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights was created by the U.N . after the 1973 Mideast war . <p> Following the overthrow of President Bashar Assad , Israel sent troops into the buffer zone . It said the move was temporary and was aimed at preventing attacks . It said the 1974 agreement establishing the zone had collapsed and that Syrian troops had withdrawn from their positions . <p> Israel has also carried out airstrikes across Syria in recent days targeting what it says are suspected chemical weapons and long-range rockets . <p> Egypt and Saudi Arabia have condemned Israel 's incursion , accusing it of exploiting the disarray in Syria and violating international law . <p> Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed it in a move not recognized by the international community , except for the United States . The rest of the world views the strategic plateau as occupied Syrian territory . <p> -- By Joseph Krauss <p> Israeli air force has launched hundreds of airstrikes in Syria , war monitor says <p> DAMASCUS , Syria -- Israel 's air force has carried out hundreds of airstrikes in different parts of Syria as its ground forces move north of the Golan Heights along the border with Lebanon , according to an opposition war monitor . <p> The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Tuesday that since the fall of President Bashar Assad 's government , Israel 's air force has carried out more than 300 airstrikes against research centers , arms depots and military infrastructure across Syria , as well as a naval base along the Mediterranean coast . <p> Associated Press journalists in Damascus witnessed intense airstrikes on the city and its suburbs overnight into Tuesday morning . <p> Meanwhile , Israeli troops marched along the border with Lebanon and now control a long stretch on the Syrian side facing Lebanon 's Rashaya region , according to the war monitor 's head , Rami Abdurrahman , and the Beirut-based Al-Mayadeen TV , which has reporters in Syria . <p> Israeli troops are now about 25 kilometers ( 15 miles ) southwest of Damascus , according to the monitor . <p> The Saudi Foreign Ministry said in a statement Tuesday that " the assaults carried out by the Israeli occupation government , including the seizure of the buffer zone in the Golan Heights , and the targeting of Syrian territory confirm Israel 's continued violation of the principles of international law and its determination to sabotage Syria 's chances of restoring its security , stability and territorial integrity . " <p> Israel sent troops into a buffer zone inside Syria that had been established after the 1973 Mideast war . It said the move was temporary and was taken to prevent any cross-border attacks after Syrian troops withdrew . <p> Israel has also carried out heavy airstrikes that it says are aimed at preventing suspected chemical weapons and long-range rockets from falling into the hands of extremists . <p> Saudi Arabia has been in talks with the United States in recent years over normalizing relations with Israel in exchange for a U.S. defense pact , American assistance in establishing a civilian nuclear program and a pathway to the establishment of a Palestinian state . <p> But the kingdom has also repeatedly condemned Israel 's actions in the Gaza Strip , where it is at war with the Hamas militant group . <p> Following are a collection of reader responses to stories or letters to the editor for the second week of December 2024 . They have been edited slightly for readability . Got something you want to add ? Send an email to editor Marshall J <p> Arabic malt energy drinks , protein Snickers bars , an edible Barbie dream house , Snoop Dogg chips ; if any of those exotic snacks pique your interest there are places to get them in Kelowna . Seoulful Convenience specializes in Korean snacks a <p> PORTLAND , Ore . ( AP ) -- Drug reform advocates hailed Oregon as a progressive leader when it became the first in the nation to legalize the therapeutic use of psilocybin , the compound found in psychedelic mushrooms . But four years later , <p> There are an abundance of festive houses in Vernon that go all out on their Christmas decorations , illuminating the street with Christmas cheer . For over a decade , iNFOnews.ca has been adding to its list of addresses that really get into th
