<p> Presidents nominate ( and the Senate has to approve ) a team of people to lead executive departments . This cabinet , whose role is codified in law , works alongside a larger group of political appointees across government . Much as in his first term , Donald Trump has signalled that his circle of power will also include at least a few outside advisers . Learn below who 's in charge of what . <h> White House <p> As the administration 's nominal second-in-command , JD Vance hits the trifecta of Trumpian nationalism : protectionist on the economy , hawkish on immigration and isolationist on foreign policy , with a particular opposition to helping Ukraine fight off Russia 's invasion . Once a Never Trump Republican , the 40-year-old 's Damascene conversion has made him close to Donald Trump Jr. , the president-elect 's keyboard-warrior eldest son , and the prospective heir to MAGA . <p> By contrast , the self-effacing Susie Wiles is a political veteran , having variously worked as a staffer , strategist and lobbyist since the 1980s . This year , the Floridianmanaged Mr. Trump'swinning campaign , in which she imposed discipline on the organization but let the candidate do as he wanted . She will be the first female White House chief of staff . <p> Mike Waltz , a former Green Beret and Florida congressman , is a China hawk who has declared the U.S. to be in a Cold War with Beijing . He will be charged with implementing Mr.Trump 's isolationist approach to national security , which de-emphasizes traditional alliances . He also has some thoughts on Canadian politics : earlier this year , Mr. Waltz tweeted that Conservative Party Leader Pierre Poilievre " is going to send Trudeau packing in 2025 ( finally . ) " <p> A familiar face will be Stephen Miller . The long-serving Trump adviser wrote the famous " American carnage " inauguration speech in 2017 and authored much of the first term 's immigration policy , including the Title 42 order that allowed border guards to turn back asylum seekers without letting them file a claim . He will be central to Mr. Trump 's promised mass deportations and border crackdown . Similarly , Dan Scavino , who has been Mr. Trump 's director of social media since 2016 -- and writes a lot of @realDonaldTrump 's content -- will be back for another tour in the West Wing . <p> The lower-profile Bill McGinley , another former White House aide , returns in a key role for a boss apt to ignore rules and who has already signalled the desire to use the legal system to get revenge on his enemies . Similarly less known is James Blair , a Florida political consultant who helped run the campaign 's ground game . <p> The day after the U.S. election was a busy time at the New York Stock Exchange , where some traders wore Trump hats as his return send markets climbing . The trading day was done when Kamala Harris , the Democratic nominee , gave her concession speech from Washington . Timothy A. Clary/AFP via Getty Images ; Andrew Kelly/Reuters <h> Economy and public spending <p> For Canadians , two key figures will be Howard Lutnick and Jamieson Greer . Mr.Lutnick , a Wall Street CEO and major Trump campaign donor , will be in charge of implementing Mr. Trump 's sweeping protectionist trade policy , including tariffs on all goods entering the U.S. The Sorbonne-educated , French-speaking Mr. Greer , meanwhile , is a steel industry lawyer who served as chief of staff to United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer during Mr. Trump 's previous term , working on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement . He will now be charged with Mr. Trump 's promised renegotiation of that pact . <p> The other major economic duo will be Scott Bessent and Russell Vought . While Mr. Bessent , a hedge fund manager who once worked for George Soros and fundraised for Al Gore , might raise eyebrows in this administration , Mr.Vought certainly wo n't . He held the same job in Mr. Trump 's first White House and , out of office , helped develop MAGA policy ideas via thinktank the Center for Renewing America and the Heritage Foundation 's Project 2025 . <p> The pick who seems the most at odds with Mr. Trump 's agenda , and certainly with that of his party , is Lori Chavez-DeRemer.A Republican member of Congress from Oregon , she has backed legislation making it easier to form unions and putting restrictions on " right-to-work " laws , favours expunging cannabis-related criminal convictions and pushed back on 2020 election denial . <p> Outside the administration , Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy will be leading the Department of Government Efficiency , or DOGE , named after Mr. Musk 's favourite cryptocurrency . The group will be charged with drafting cost-cutting ideas . Mr. Musk spent US$200-million helping Mr. Trump win and has subsequently camped out at Mar-a-Lago to give the president-elect input on his cabinet . Ohio businessman Mr. Ramaswamy , meanwhile , rocketed to fame in the Republican presidential primaries by seeking to out-Trump Mr. Trump with promises such as building a wall on the Canadian border . <p> Mr. Trump appointed three judges to the Supreme Court , whose ruling that ex-presidents are immune from prosecution decided the fate of several federal cases against him.DREW ANGERER/AFP via Getty Images <h> Justice and law enforcement <p> During the election campaign , Mr. Trump threatened to prosecute everyone from Joe Biden to Jack Smith to Google . Potentially leading these efforts will be a quartet of loyalists at the Department of Justice . Pam Bondi is a former Florida attorney-general who rose to fame for fighting in court against Obamacare and same-sex marriage , and later backed Mr. Trump 's false claims of 2020 election fraud . Todd Blanche and Emil Bove , meanwhile , are former federal prosecutors who ran Mr. Trump 's defence team for his Manhattan hush-money criminal trial . <p> Kash Patel , a former prosecutor and political staffer , has vowed that a future Trump administration will get vengeance on government " conspirators , " as well as journalists who debunked Mr. Trump 's false claims of fraud in the 2020 election . " We 're going to come after the people in the media who lied about American citizens , who helped Joe Biden rig presidential elections , " he said last year on Steve Bannon 's podcast . <p> Another Trump lawyer in line for an important job is D. John Sauer . The former Missouri solicitor-general lead the successful effort to get the Supreme Court to grant Mr. Trump limited presidential immunity . Mr. Sauer is best known for a moment in that case in which he contended that a U.S. president should hypothetically be allowed to order the assassination of a political rival . <p> To run the country 's intelligence apparatus , Mr. Trump made one of his most contentious picks . Tulsi Gabbard , a former Hawaii Democratic member of Congress , has blamed Vladimir Putin 's invasion of Ukraine on NATO , claimed Syrian strongman Bashar al-Assad did not gas his own people and sued Hillary Clinton for calling her a " Russian asset . " <p> John Ratcliffe , who was director of national intelligence in the last Trump administration , was also accused of propagating Russian disinformation . If the pair get confirmed , they will be key to fulfilling a Trump campaign pledge of purging intelligence and law enforcement agents whom he accuses of unfairly investigating him . <p> This past November , a binational Mass in Ciudad Ju ? rez paid tribute to the migrants who have died crossing the U.S.-Mexico border . Mr. Trump has promised the mass deportation of millions of people , raising questions across Latin America about where they will go and what will happen to them . Jose Luis Gonzalez/Reuters <p> Billboards in Jerusalem congratulated Mr. Trump soon after his election victory . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had been counting on a Trump presidency more favourable to Israel 's tactics in Gaza.Ronen Zvulun/Reuters <h> Foreign policy <p> Arguably the most conventional cabinet pick is Marco Rubio , the Florida senator and long-time member of that body 's foreign affairs and intelligence committees . Once a hawkish Reaganite , his views have recently fallen more in line with Mr. Trump 's , such as on stopping aid to Ukraine . Pete Hegseth , meanwhile , is a Fox News host and military combat veteran who wants to fire " woke " generals . His confirmation faces a rough road over a dearth of management experience and a sexual assault accusation , which he denies . Also potentially facing a difficult path is John Phelan , a Florida banker and Trump fundraiser tapped for a top military role despite having no military experience . <p> In charge of implementing Mr. Trump 's highest-profile promise -- rounding up and deporting all 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. -- will be Kristi Noem and Tom Homan . Ms.Noem , the Governor of South Dakota , has described migration as an " invasion . " Mr. Homan , who started as a border patrol agent and worked his way up to head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement , has vowed to clamp down at the borders with both Mexico and Canada . <p> In charge of carrying out Mr. Trump 's promise to increase U.S. support to Israel will be two of the country 's staunchest backers , Elise Stefanik and Mike Huckabee . Ms. Stefanik famously triggered the resignations of two Ivy League university presidents after grilling them at a congressional hearing over their response to pro-Palestinian campus protests . Mr. Huckabee has said " there 's really no such thing as a Palestinian " and that Israeli control over Palestinian territories is not an occupation . <p> Also on the diplomatic front , Matthew Whitaker will be assigned to enforce Mr. Trump 's demand that NATO countries spend more on defence -- whereCanada is the leading laggard , not vowing to meet its 2-per-cent-of-GDP target until 2032 . He will have some help from Pete Hoekstra , a former Michigan member of Congress . Keith Kellogg , meanwhile , will have to figure out how to achieve the immediate end to the Russian invasion of Ukraine that Mr. Trump has promised , something almost certain to entail Kyiv giving up territory to Moscow . Another high-profile ambassadorial appointment is Charles Kushner , the father-in-law of Mr. Trump 's daughter , Ivanka . A developer and disbarred former lawyer , Mr. Kushner was convicted for tax evasion and making illegal campaign contributions . <p> When COVID-19 arrived in Mr. Trump 's first term , health providers mocked him for his handling of the pandemic . This protest in 2020 was against the suspension of nurses in San Diego who were demanding N95 masks.Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP <h> Health <p> Robert F. Kennedy Jr. , the anti-vaccine activist and promoter of COVID-19 conspiracy theories , is Mr.Trump 's pick to oversee the public health agencies he has long criticized . <p> If confirmed , he can expect to find backup among several fellow nominees . Dave Weldon , a doctor and former Florida member of Congress , once promoted the falsehood that vaccines are linked to autism . Fox News personality Janette Nesheiwat has said that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention gives too many vaccines to children . Stanford professor Jay Bhattacharya was an advocate for achieving COVID-19 herd immunity through widespread infection . Martin Makary , a surgeon and medical professor , meanwhile , supported stay-at-home orders but opposed vaccine mandates . <p> After Mr. Kennedy , the highest-profile nominee in this area is Mehmet Oz , the **32;72;TOOLONG . He has previously attracted criticism for promoting homeopathy and other pseudoscience . <p> The Biden administration directed billions of dollars to green infrastructure and energy , which might now be in jeopardy under a climate-skeptical Trump White House . ' Drill , baby , drill ' was one of Mr. Trump 's slogans as he vowed to open up more federal land to oil and gas exploration . Charlie Riedel and Alex Brandon/AP <h> Energy , environment and infrastructure <p> After Joe Biden put the fight against climate change at the centre of his Inflation Reduction Act , Mr.Trump is vowing a return to " drill , baby , drill . " The main component of this policy is an effort to increase oil and gas production by opening up public lands . <p> Leading the push will be Chris Wright , CEO of Denver-based fracking company Liberty Energy , and North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum . Mr. Wright has said " there is no climate crisis " and opposed efforts to combat climate change . <p> To that end Lee Zeldin , a former New York congressman , is expected to dial back the Environmental Protection Agency 's rules capping emissions and preventing polluting . Sean Duffy , by contrast , will be in the position of reinforcing one of Mr. Biden 's other legacies . The Fox News personality will be charged with continuing the disbursement of federal infrastructure money , one policy area on which Mr. Trump and Democrats have some common ground . <p> Brooke Rollins , a White House policy adviser during Mr. Trump 's first term , will be in charge of a department working with the rural residents who are likely to be hard hit if Mr. Trump triggers a global trade war , given the amount of agricultural products the U.S. exports . <p> Pupils at American schools , like the ones who designed these get-out-the-vote stickers in New Mexico , can expect big changes to federal education policy if Mr. Trump follows through on his promises.Susan Montoya Bryan/The Associated Press <p> Linda McMahon , who managed the Small Business Administration in the first Trump term , is now his pick for education czar.Joshua Roberts/Reuters <h> Other domestic policy <p> Wrestling magnate Linda McMahon has been tapped to deliver a piledriver to the department of education . Mr. Trump wants to abolish the agency , a long-held Republican promise . Whether he can actually do this remains to be seen , as it would almost certainly require 60 votes in the Senate -- seven more than his party has . <p> Another agency Mr. Trump hopes to shake up is the Federal Communications Commission . He has threatened to take away the broadcast licenses of television stations for airing negative stories about him . Brendan Carr has vowed to expand the agency 's remit to fight Facebook , Google , Apple and other tech companies he accuses of suppressing conservative political opinions . <p> Former NFL player Scott Turner has been tasked with running the department that oversees affordable housing at a time when the problem is reaching crisis levels . A pastor who ran literacy programs , he previously served in government heading a program to encourage business investment in underserved communities . <p> Former Georgia congressman and Trump legal adviser Doug Collins , a chaplain in the military reserves , will be assigned to streamline the department that serves the country 's military veterans and cut red tape .
