<h> The consequential immigration minister <h> Immigration consultants are gaming the system . It 's time for Ottawa to change the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act so that only lawyers in good standing with a law society may provide representation for a fee . <p> Immigration Minister Marc Miller can take bold action . Ravi Jain writes that be is tired of trying to explain to victims how a country like Canada could allow non-lawyers to run law offices , and to dupe people into thinking they hired members of his profession . The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade <p> After three attempts on his life , and the murder of the police officer who was protecting him , George Lindo and his family decided to stay in Canada back in 2019 -- but Canada wants to send them , including their Olympic-level track star son , back to Jamaica . <p> After three attempts on his life , and the murder of the police officer who was protecting him , George Lindo and his family decided to stay in Canada back in 2019 -- but Canada wants to send them , including their Olympic-level track star son , back to Jamaica . <p> March is Fraud Prevention Month in Canada . According to the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre , there were over 41,000 victims of fraud last year , with scammers ripping people off for more than $554 million . <p> Immigration , Refugees , and Citizenship Minister Marc Miller makes an announcement about additional supports for asylum claimants in the House of Commons foyer after Question Period on Jan. 31 . The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade <p> Canada 's special immigration measures for Turkish earthquake victims provided immediate relief for those fleeing the 2023 disaster , but advocates say ineligibility for benefits like health care and education , and a lack of a plan from the Canadian government , has left hundreds wondering where to turn . <p> Canada 's special immigration measures for Turkish earthquake victims provided immediate relief for those fleeing the 2023 disaster , but advocates say ineligibility for benefits like health care and education , and a lack of a plan from the Canadian government , has left hundreds wondering where to turn . <p> Immigration Minister Marc Miller said the intake limits for international students were ' blunt measures , ' but said Ottawa needed to ' work with provinces in the meantime to make sure that they are doing their jobs . ' The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade <p> Multiple postsecondary sector groups warn of funding shortfalls and layoffs if additional measures are not taken after capping provincial numbers of foreign students . <p> Though Immigration Minister Marc Miller has intimated the 1,000-application cap for the Gaza temporary resident visa program may have some flexibility , advocates are calling for more clarity and less-onerous security screening . The Hill Times photograph by Andrew Meade
