<p> The Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre says more than 30,000 people have been defrauded in 2024 , for a combined total of $503 million lost to fraud -- from romance scams to identity theft . Merchandise fraud alone , including Facebook Marketplace scams , cost Canadians $7.1 million between January and September . ( Kiterin/Shutterstock - image credit ) <p> Shannon Church of Kenilworth , Ont. , was looking for cast iron planters and turned to Facebook Marketplace in hopes of getting a deal . <p> She regularly visits the online buying and selling site , and on Dec. 1 , she contacted a person who said they lived in Kitchener , and whose advertised price she liked . <p> " We agreed on four planters for $50 , " Church said in an interview with CBC . " I was very clear about reiterating that price and it was all confirmed and everything . " <p> The seller asked Church to send an e-transfer and gave her an address in Kitchener to pick up the planters . <p> " He called multiple times before I sent the e-transfer to confirm I was going to send it , " she said . <p> But Church never got her planters . Once she sent the money , the seller stopped answering her calls or texts . <p> After that , Church looked up the Kitchener address the seller had given her and found it did n't exist . She also found a woman from Hamilton who said she was scammed out of $70 by the same person and for the same cast iron planters . <p> Church eventually found eight other people who said they were ripped off by the seller , but she 's still mad at herself for falling for it . <p> " I 'm annoyed , but it was my own fault , right ? " Church said . " Like , it was too good to be true . I should have questioned it from the get-go , but lesson learned . " <p> Scams cost Canadians millions <p> Church is far from alone . <p> The Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre says more than 30,000 people have been defrauded in 2024 , for a combined total of $503 million lost to fraud -- from romance scams to identity theft . <p> Merchandise fraud alone , including Facebook Marketplace scams , cost Canadians $7.1 million between January and September this year . In 2023 , merchandise fraud led to $11.1 million in total losses . <p> Robert Anderson of Ottawa received a message from a person on Facebook marketplace who was eager to purchase a product he had for sale . The eagerness was a tip off that something was wrong . <p> Robert Anderson of Ottawa received a message from a person on Facebook Marketplace who was eager to purchase a product he purportedly had for sale . ( Submitted by Robert Anderson ) <p> Sometimes , sellers are scam victims . <p> Robert Anderson of Ottawa has been selling items online for years . He said it 's a great way to recycle old items and make extra money , and the transactions are usually pretty straightforward . People make contact , ask questions about the product and try to get a lower price before buying it and sending money . <p> But since this fall , Anderson said , started noticing odd interactions with some buyers . <p> " You usually get an offer to buy it like almost right away , and they say they 're willing to pay the full price , but they 're out of town and they ca n't pick it up for a few days . ... they say , ' Is it OK to pay now with an e-transfer and then pick it up ? ' And they just want your email address . " <p> That 's when the email is used to send a link to a third-party site , Anderson said , and it requires the seller to sign up to claim the money . <p> " The people will tell you that , ' Oh , it 's a business account . And because it 's a business account you have to sign in to claim your money . ' " <p> He said the first time he got such a link , he got suspicious and started asking some questions . <p> " When I begin to question a little further , they just dropped the whole thing and I never hear from them again . " <p> Robert Anderson received this notice in a digital transaction he was going to make with a prospective Facebook Marketplace buyer . <p> Anderson received this notice in a digital transaction he was going to make with a prospective Facebook Marketplace buyer . ( Submitted by Robert Anderson ) <p> Important to report cybercrime and fraud <p> Det . Const . John Armit of Ontario Provincial Police ( OPP ) said what happened to Church and Anderson are common when it comes to online marketplace scams . <p> He said the tip-off you may be dealing with scammers is they 're too eager to sell products or buy them at full price , they do n't ask any questions or they send a third-party link for payment . <p> Often , the fake online buyers and sellers are involved in some prolific fraud action , said Armit , who 's with the economic crimes and corruption unit , anti-rackets branch and financial crimes services . <p> " It 's to allow them to launder money and use money mules , so they could be witting or unwitting money mules , " said Armit , who also works closely with the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre . <p> " You could have someone that is a victim of another fraud that believes that they 're receiving some of the funds from whatever fraud pitch they have , and they can keep a percentage and then they have to move the funds to the next intermediary . Sometimes we 're seeing the money actually be cashed out and then converted into crypto and sent overseas . " <p> Armit said that last year , there were 460,000 calls to the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre , but the organization can only process 250 calls a day . <p> He said that 's why it 's important for victims to get the word out that they 've been scammed . <p> " We encourage people to report through their police jurisdiction , to those online selling platforms , but also to the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre online reporting system , " said Armit , adding people should also warn others on the website if they 've fallen victim to a scam . <p> " By posting stuff about these bad actors , I think it 's naming and shaming , " he said . <p> " We 're not going to arrest our way out of cyber crime or fraud . Prevention is the biggest tool that we have to protect the public , but also reporting it so we can disrupt it . " <p> Both Church and Anderson said they 've reported the scams to Facebook and police , but are n't sure if the people involved will ever be caught . <p> Anderson said he 'll continue to use Facebook Marketplace , but will definitely ask a lot of questions . <p> " We 're just very careful , and if somebody comes back to me and says , ' Oh , I 'm sending you an e-mail or a e-transfer and I 'll pick it up in a few days , blah , blah , blah , ' I usually just say , ' Listen , just let 's forget about it because I know this is a scam and I prefer just to sell with somebody else , ' and just leave it at that , " he said . <p> MOSCOW ( Reuters ) -A Russian oil tanker carrying thousands of tonnes of oil products split apart during a heavy storm on Sunday , spilling oil into the Kerch Strait , while another tanker was also in distress after sustaining damage , Russian officials said . The vessels were in the Kerch Strait between mainland Russia and Crimea , which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014 , when they issued distress signals . Russian investigators opened two criminal cases to look into possible safety violations after at least one person was killed when the 136-metre Volgoneft 212 tanker , with 15 people on board , split in half with its bow sinking . <p> Israel 's foreign minister has ordered the closure of the country 's embassy in Dublin , citing the Irish government 's " extreme anti-Israel policy " . Gideon Sa'ar said " Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel " . " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the delegitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state , along with double standards , " he said in a statement . <p> At the risk of sounding like Nicole Kidman : We all know the feelings that unite an audience in a movie theater . Yet when I went to see the rereleased " Interstellar , " I was struck by a new feeling . Taking my seat in front of the IMAX screen at the AMC Lincoln Square , I was honestly shocked ... <p> B.C. 's Sea to Sky Highway -- the highway that connects Vancouver and Whistler -- was closed in both directions on Saturday after a massive landslide . CBC 's Sohrab Sandhu reports from the scene near Lions Bay . <p> Personal photos of ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad have surfaced from his abandoned residences , sparking ridicule among Syrians who until days ago were persecuted for criticizing his carefully crafted public image . The intimate and candid photos , reportedly discovered in albums from Assad 's mansions in the hills of Damascus and Aleppo , offer a stark contrast to the polished , glamorous image that Assad and his father projected as they led Syria for half a century . Syrians have been fascinated by the background glimpses of a seemingly normal family that held the country in an iron grip and bombed some their fellow citizens regarded as a threat . <p> Israel recalled its ambassador after Ireland 's decision on a Palestinian state in May , and was further angered last week when Dublin backed South Africa 's case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . " The decision to close Israel 's embassy in Dublin was made in light of the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government , " the foreign ministry said in a statement . <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israel said Sunday it will close its embassy in Ireland as relations deteriorated over the war in Gaza , where Palestinian medical officials said new Israeli airstrikes killed over 46 people including several children . <p> The Opposition Tories want Newfoundland and Labrador 's privacy commissioner to look at what they call a Liberal cabinet minister 's " highly inappropriate " handling of an access-to-information request , which they believe contravenes the law.But Immigration Minister Sarah Stoodley says she did not violate the legislation , and fully respects and complies with it.The dispute goes back to Dec. 4 , the final day of the House of Assembly 's fall sitting . Stoodley rose when given an opportunity to answer q <p> Hannah Kobayashi , the missing Hawaii woman who was found last week in Mexico , has dashed her family 's hopes of a reunion . Kobayashi , 31 , whose disappearance sparked a police investigation before she was found to have voluntarily left the country , told relatives she did not want to return to her home state , according to her family . Her sister , Sydni , posted a statement on her Facebook saying that she and her mother have not physically seen Hannah , but have spoken on the phone with her . <p> A judge in Las Vegas sentenced a Texas man to 100 years in prison for his role in a two-state shooting rampage on Thanksgiving 2020 that included the killing of a man in Nevada and a shootout with authorities in Arizona . Christopher McDonnell , 32 , pleaded guilty in October to more than 20 felonies including murder , attempted murder , murder conspiracy , weapon charges and being a felon illegally in possession of a firearm . Clark County District Judge Tierra Jones sentenced him on Friday to a minimum of 100 years in prison , KLAS-TV reported .
