<p> People 's National Party President Mark Golding ( right ) in conversation with Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley at last Tuesday 's Michael Manley Centenary Lecture at The Little Theatre in Kingston . Beside them is former Jamaica Prime Minister P.J. Patterson . <p> Retired former Prime Minister P. J. Patterson last Tuesday praised Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley as the Caribbean 's fiercest advocate for social and economic justice , noting that no one since his predecessor , Michael Manley , has been as eloquent in speaking on behalf of the region . <p> Patterson , who succeeded Manley and served as Jamaica 's longest-serving prime minister from 1992 to 2005 , described Manley as a towering political figure who not only shaped Jamaica 's political landscape , but was also a key proponent of regional integration . <p> According to him , Mottley -- who he said " continues to provide outstanding leadership for the entire Caribbean " -- has taken up Manley 's mantle , becoming a leading voice for a new world economic order , one that recognises the old system as dysfunctional and outdated . <p> Patterson also echoed the call for greater Caribbean unity , a sentiment recently expressed by Dr Ralph Gonsalves , the longest-serving prime minister of St Vincent and the Grenadines , who warned that unity is now more essential than ever . <p> Addressing the gathering at the Michael Manley Centenary Lecture at The Little Theatre in Kingston , where he also introduced Mottley as the guest speaker , Patterson also touched on the ongoing economic difficulties facing Cuba , a nation that has long contributed to the region 's healthcare and education systems and provided technical assistance across multiple fields . He acknowledged that many who once opposed Cuba -- especially during Manley 's tenure ( 1972-1980 ) -- for political or partisan reasons , have since come to recognise and support its contributions . <h> Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox <p> Locally , Patterson pointed to Jamaica 's consistent calls for the lifting of the US embargo against Cuba . He highlighted the detrimental impact of the 62-year-old embargo , exacerbated by the 1996 Helms-Burton Act , which has crippled Cuba 's access to essential supplies and global trade . <p> " It is worthy of commendation that the prime minister of Barbados , Mia Mottley , was the first to step forward and offer maximum support in a time of dire need to Cuba , to a generous neighbour , " he said , adding that he hoped others would follow her example . <p> Turning to the legacy of Michael Manley , Patterson reflected on how the late Jamaican prime minister understood that the nation 's economic development was shaped by the legacy of slavery and colonial exploitation . <p> " He deplored that iniquitous global system , which had resulted in adverse forms of trade , the absence of supreme control over our natural resources , and the denial of remunerative prices for our primary commodities , " he said . <p> Manley , he added , recognised that in order to address these age-old deficits , a framework had to be established to cause the voice of the Caribbean to be stronger than the sum of its individual parts . <p> He said Manley was one of the four architects of the Treaty of Chaguaramas in 1973 , which was the push to explore common incentive policies towards investment and a common external tariff . <p> Citing one of the main features of the treaty -- provisions that deal with the conduct of foreign policy -- Patterson said nowhere was that determination for the Caribbean to chart its own course more clearly demonstrated than the " earth-shattering decision by four Caribbean heads of the independent countries in 1972 to repudiate the United States punitive embargo against Cuba and establish full diplomatic relationships with the island " . <p> Manley 's vision , Patterson said , was rooted in " a search for equality and the building of a just society , a cause to which he devoted his catalytic energy , his fertile imagination all eloquently couched with his persuasive oratorical mastery " . <p> His relentless advocacy for a New International Economic Order ( NIEO ) , the eradication of apartheid in South Africa , ideological pluralism , and the adherence to universal international law were cornerstones of his leadership . Manley 's powerful voice resonated not only in the Caribbean but across Africa , where he stood in solidarity with those who had been exploited and oppressed by colonial powers . <p> " The world today renders us more vulnerable than ever than the one we knew . The existing global order is obsolete . It was fashioned by the victors of World War II . There is autocracy of the United Nations Security Council and impotence when a permanent member with veto powers is involved , as was on display in Ukraine , and the injustices in Gaza ( the genocide of the Palestinians by Israel ) . <p> " The Bretton Woods Institutions ( International Monetary Fund , World Bank , International Finance Corporation , World Trade Organisation , Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency ) , which were created to help rebuild the economy after World War II and which laid the foundation for the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , are dysfunctional and obsolescent in facing the financial challenges that confront us today , " Patterson added . <p> He said new challenges have emerged with pandemics , global warming , and the advent of new technologies such as artificial intelligence . <p> " As Michael Manley was for the NIEO then , no one else has been more articulate than Mia Mottley for the seismic abandonment of the existing world order and a determination to include the interests of the developing world , " he said . <p> He praised the Barbados Initiative , conceptualised by Mottley , which seeks to overhaul the international financial framework and address issues such as mounting debt , climate change , and sustainable development for small island developing states . <p> As chair of the CARICOM Commission on Reparatory Justice , Mottley is also working to strengthen ties between the Caribbean and Africa , continuing the work of Manley in building global solidarity for justice and reparations . <p> In her address , Mottley said , in part , that the region was in a race against time , and those who doubted it would fail to prepare . Love , she said -- from " The word is love " , which Manley trumpeted -- was also about transformation . She argued that while the Caribbean and the world may not agree on every issue , progress can still be made through collective action and commitment to shared values .
