<h> White House releases national strategy to combat Islamophobia <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The White House on Thursday announced what it called the first-ever national strategy to counter Islamophobia , detailing more than 100 steps federal officials can take to curb hate , violence , bias and discrimination against Muslims and Arab Americans . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The White House on Thursday announced what it called the first-ever national strategy to counter Islamophobia , detailing more than 100 steps federal officials can take to curb hate , violence , bias and discrimination against Muslims and Arab Americans . <p> Officials worked on the anti-Islamophobia plan for months , and its release came five weeks before Biden leaves office -- meaning implementation will mostly fall to President-elect Donald Trump , if his administration chooses to do so . <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> In a statement announcing the strategy , the Biden administration wrote that " Over the past year , this initiative has become even more important as threats against American Muslim and Arab communities have spiked . " It said that included the October 2023 slaying of 6-year-old Wadee Alfayoumi , an American Muslim boy of Palestinian descent , who was stabbed to death in Illinois . <p> The plan details actions the Executive Branch can take , along with more than 100 other calls to action across all sectors of society . <p> The strategy has four basic priorities : increasing awareness of hatred against Muslims and Arabs while more widely recognizing these communities ' heritages ; broadly improving their safety and security ; appropriately accommodating Muslim and Arab religious practices by working to curb discrimination against them ; and encouraging cross-community solidarity to further counter hate . <p> Many of those state goals are similar to the ones the Biden administration laid out in its plan to reduce antisemitism -- especially the emphasis on improving safety and security and building cross-community solidarity . <p> " While individuals have sometimes been targeted because they are thought to be Muslim , it is also crucial to recognize that Arabs are routinely targeted simply for being who they are , " the announcement of the strategy states , noting that Muslims and Arab Americans have helped build out the nation since its founding . It says that new data collection and education efforts are " increasing awareness of these forms of hate as well of the proud heritages of Muslim and Arab Americans . " <p> The plan calls for more widely disseminating successful practices of engaging Muslim and Arab Americans in the reporting of hate crimes , and that federal agencies are now more clearly spelling out that " discrimination against Muslim and Arab Americans in federally funded activities is illegal . " <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> ARTICLE CONTINUES BELOW <p> The White House 's plan also urges " state , local , and international counterparts , as well as the nongovernmental sector , to pursue similar initiatives that seek to build greater unity by recognizing our common humanity , affirming our shared values and history , and embracing equal justice , liberty , and security for all . " <p> Pro-Palestinian groups decrying his administration 's full-throated support for Israel in its war with Hamas in Gaza , frequently disrupted Biden campaign events , as well as those of Vice President Kamala Harris after Biden abandoned his reelection bid in July . <p> The Council on American-Islamic Relations , largest Muslim civil rights and advocacy organization in the U.S. , panned what it called " the White House 's long-delayed document " as " too little , too late . " <p> " The White House strategy lays out some positive recommendations related to anti-Muslim bigotry , but it has been released too late to make an impact , fails to promise any changes to federal programs that perpetuate anti-Muslim discrimination on a massive scale , " the council said in a statement further noting that the plan does n't address what it called a " federal watchlist " targeting some Arab-Americans as potential terrorists . <p> It added that the plan " fails to promise an end the most significant driver of anti-Muslim bigotry today : the U.S.-backed genocide in Gaza . " <p> I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use.This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration . You will also be signed up for our free morning newsletter . You may unsubscribe at any time . <p> Secure transaction.Secure transaction . Cancel anytime . <h> You 're all set ! <p> Thank you . <p> Your gift purchase was successful ! Your purchase was successful , and you are now logged in . You will also start receiving our free morning newsletter soon .
