<p> Israel said on Sunday it would close its Dublin embassy due to the Irish government 's " extreme anti-Israel policies " including recognition of a Palestinian state and support for international legal action against its war in Gaza . <p> Israel recalled its ambassador after Ireland 's decision on a Palestinian state in May , and was further angered last week when Dublin backed South Africa 's case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . <p> " The decision to close Israel 's embassy in Dublin was made in light of the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government , " the foreign ministry said in a statement . <p> " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the delegitimization and demonization of the Jewish state , along with double standards . Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel , " Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said in the statement . <p> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris said the decision was deeply regrettable and his nation would always stand up for human rights and international law . <p> " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-International law , " he said in a post on X. <p> " Ireland wants a two state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . " <p> Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin said the two countries would maintain diplomatic relations and there were no plans to close Ireland 's embassy in Israel . <p> Martin said in March that while it was for the ICJ , also known as the World Court , to decide whether genocide is being committed , he wanted to be clear that Palestinian militant group Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack on Israel and the ensuing assault in its stronghold Gaza " represents the blatant violation of international humanitarian law on a mass scale . " <p> The statement from Israel 's foreign ministry also announced the establishment of an Israeli embassy in Moldova .
