<h> Garth Minott Evangelism and Trumpism <p> President Emmanuel Macron 's wife Brigitte Macron talks with US President-elect Donald Trump as they sit alongside daughter of US President Joe Biden , Ashley Biden , left , First Lady Jill Biden , second left , and French President Emmanuel Macron in Notre Dame Cathedral as France 's iconic cathedral is formally reopening its doors for the first time since a devastating fire nearly destroyed the 861-year-old landmark in 2019 , December 7 , in Paris . <p> Donald Trump is the United States President-elect and will once again assume state power and leader of the free world in January next year . I am confident , unlike events that occurred when he demitted office the last time , there will be a smooth transition from the Biden-Harris administration to the Trump-Vance term of office . <p> Indeed , in what many are anticipating will be much of the same kind of leadership that characterised the previous Trump-Pence administration and given the place and position of the global realities at present , with in excess of fifty wars across the globe , it would not be surprising if some hold the view that not much will be improved . At the same time and given the previous attempts at blocking Obama Care or the Affordable Care Act , which would deprive millions of Americans of much-needed medical care , there is renewed concern that while the policy benefited millions and was in favour of the vulnerable and the poor , a new policy direction will bring radical change . <h> PRIORITY FOR THE VULNERABLE AND POOR <p> Moreover , some are of the view that the Biden-Harris administration was very complicit in the war in Gaza and the genocide being perpetuated there , and now with additional conflicts in Lebanon , attacks on Israel by Iran and the ongoing war in Ukraine , there is need to pause and consider whether the new administration will change or reverse the present trend . No one knows for certain how things will evolve . However , with references to Project 2025 , dubbed a manifesto for a new Trump administration , though there were pockets of denial that this is , in fact , not the case , nevertheless , there is some indication that a very conservative agenda will be driving the new administration . <p> Yet the project provides a source of hope for some as they consider the threat of immigrants a serious issue , while for others , policies that produce economic and social deprivation in countries that were described as sh*t-hole countries by the former , and now soon to be president , keep these issues in the forefront . Indeed , these are not small matters as they are critical in how we view those who are vulnerable not just within the United States but also in Ukraine , Gaza , Lebanon , South Sudan , and other areas , especially since children , the disabled , the elderly and , generally , vulnerable people around the world , especially in war torn areas , are adversely affected . <h> EVANGELISM AND TRUMPISM <p> With the election of President Trump , the pushback against abortion , migration , and cannabis will be kept in the forefront . Here , there seems to be an alignment with what I would refer to as evangelicalism and Trumpism , with the former made up of leaders of the evangelical tradition and the latter represented by a political ethos based on promoting the wealthy at the expense of the poor . This was addressed by psychologist Stephen Lewandowsky , chair of cognitive psychology at the University of Bristol . <h> Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox <p> He points out in an article titled ' Why people vote for politicians ' , they know are liars that there is a general disillusionment with the establishment and the need for an alternative reality that takes the needs of people seriously . He uses , for example , the popularity of former UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson , who , though making light of the situation of a young boy with pneumonia having to sleep on the floor at a hospital , and though he misrepresented the details of the deal that resulted in Brexit , he was still voted in as prime minister as voters required radical change in the status quo . <p> In the final analysis , therefore , while the issue at hand now is the election of President Trump and the overwhelming support by evangelicals , the real issue to be addressed is the lack of trust in institutions generally and political parties and the governments they form . These governments are seen as corrupt , foster inequality , pursue policies that favour the wealthy while marginalising the middle class , the poor , migrants , and other vulnerable groups . With change understood as inevitable , voters , be they conservatives or liberals , are looking for new ways to live in the world , and the view is that the present global political and economic systems are not working in favour of the majority . How then does the Church , which acclaims Jesus as Lord , address these issues , especially in the present climate ? <p> Here , I recommend a re-reading of Dietrich Bonhoeffer 's book The Cost of Discipleship in which he speaks of costly grace . Measured against cheap grace , which spiritualises the gospel , keeps it in the realm of the soul , makes it devoid of social justice and insensitive to the transformation of society , costly grace , rooted in the incarnation , that is God in flesh in Jesus , places the gospel in the midst of people 's fears , anxieties , and struggles . It is aligned with the disillusionment of people while offering Jesus ' death on the cross and his resurrection as hope for a transformed life . <p> A church on the margin , the title of one of his books is proposed by Rev Burchell Taylor , Baptist minister , who refers to such a church as one that embraces the prophetic tradition , accepts that it 's numbers will not necessarily evolve into mega churches but will be responsive as disciples . It is a church committed to following Jesus , not in a populist sense , but willing to literally and figuratively lay down their lives for the sake of those on the margins of society . Children , the mentally ill , the homeless , migrants , those living with HIV/AIDS and other chronic illnesses , and on a broader scale , those affected by climate change , to include rising sea levels , increased storms and hurricanes and the rise in temperatures must be at the forefront of advocacy for improved quality of life . Only churches and institutions that are proactive and responsive to these issues will be taken seriously in the age of evangelicalism and Trumpism.
