<p> Screenshot from a viral video taken in 2024 of Muslim men praying in the middle of a blocked street in Montreal . <p> The sight of Muslim men kneeling on the ground in prayer on city streets , often during pro-Palestinian demonstrations and sometimes blocking traffic , all while being shielded by Montreal police ( SPVM ) officers , has reached its limit , according to Quebec Premier Fran ? ois Legault . <p> " I see people on their knees in the street praying , " he said . " I do n't think it 's something we want to have here . " <p> Asked if he would legislate against it , he replied , " It 's what we 're looking at , " and has mused about using section 33 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms -- the notwithstanding clause -- to do so . <p> At a Dec. 6 scrum capping a parliamentary session rife with debates , scandals and revelations about religious school funding , intrusion of religion in Quebec public schools , the launch of 17 school investigations and students praying in Laval high school classrooms , Legault told reporters that he and his government intend to " send a very clear message to the Islamists ... We 're going to fight , and we 're never going to accept that people try not to respect Quebec 's fundamental values " of secularism and gender equality . <p> The topic is an especially sensitive one in Montreal . The administration of Mayor Val ? rie Plante has included Islamophobia in condemnations of antisemitism , regardless of context ; Plante has also referred to a firebombed synagogue as a mosque , and elected officials have repeated Plante 's familiar refrain that Montreal is " a city of peace . " Her point person for public security , Alain Vaillancourt , did not respond to queries from The CJN . <p> The CJN asked Montreal police how many infractions , if any , have been issued to individuals or groups obstructing traffic to engage in street prayer during the nearly 400 demonstrations over the last 14 months . There has been no official or public confirmation of how many traffic-blocking prayer incidents have occurred . ( The CJN has tallied seven . ) <p> The SPVM is facing mounting criticism over a conspicuously lax approach to raucous protests , including permitting demonstrators to violate a Quebec court injunction outside a synagogue on Nov. 5 and asking Jews and other citizens to vacate the public domain to avoid incitement of protesters . " There is no law or bylaw prohibiting public prayer on the island of Montreal , " they said , adding that police " adapt operations according to the context of each situation , taking into consideration the safety of all . " <p> Rabbi Reuben Poupko of Montreal 's Beth Israel Beth Aaron Congregation told The CJN , " When it comes to conflict in Montreal between law and order and peace , police often choose peace , and that leaves our community feeling exposed . " <p> Montreal Police Brotherhood president Yves Francoeur could not say how many incidents have occurred , confirming to French-language radio that activities blocking traffic are subject to the Highway Safety Code . " We have the power to ask them to stop , to move , to free up the road . If they persist , we have the right to arrest them , " he said . He reiterated that the union was among the first organizations to support Bill 21 , Quebec 's secularism law , noting street prayer " does n't have its place in Montreal ; it does n't have its place in Quebec . " <p> Liberal MNA Andr ? Morin is the Official Opposition 's critic for immigration , integration , secularism and justice , and suggested Legault is trying to deflect and distract Quebecers from a " difficult session " and the CAQ government 's record $11-billion deficit . <p> " He has n't yet adequately explained exactly what the problem is that he 's trying to fix , " he told The CJN . " Religion is not illegal in Quebec and is protected by the Canadian and Quebec Charters . For a premier to say we need to forbid prayer in public spaces is a big statement and a big step . " <p> Morin says there 's already a wide range of legislation applying to street prayer , including the Quebec Highway Code and municipal bylaws . " But we have to be careful . Yes , there is an Islamist movement in Quebec , a political ideology , but not all Muslims are part of that . " <p> The Jewish Community Council of Montreal did not respond to The CJN 's request for comment , but the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs ( CIJA ) posted on social media , " It is not acceptable to see our public spaces privatized by groups of radical militants praying for the martyrs of Islamic terrorist groups and the death of Zionists . We salute Premier Fran ? ois Legault for his leadership . " CIJA said it will work with partners and the government " to arrive at legislation that will put an end to this assault on our common Quebec values . " <p> Legault sounded adamant . " When we want to pray , we go to a church , to a mosque , but not to public places , " he said , his salvo coming three days after a pro-Palestine group called for a rally in support of " One Solution , Intifada Revolution " at Montreal 's famed Notre Dame Basilica on the day marking Solemnity of the Immaculate Conception . <p> That Dec. 8 rally , attended by several dozen demonstrators , saw a few dozen men kneeling and praying in unison without incident , while others walked around with flags , some masked . A few people stood across from them in front of the church in opposition to the protest . At least one was reportedly asked to move by Montreal police , but The CJN could not confirm that . <p> On the federal side , the reaction was swift , with Immigration Minister Marc Miller suggesting Legault is picking on Muslims , and Justice Minister Arif Virani cautioning Legault about using the notwithstanding clause to override Canadians ' rights . <p> There are also questions if such a move can potentially prevent Jews from holding outdoor Shabbat celebrations , block men from gathering to put on tefillin , and ban menorah lightings , already facing restrictions in some Canadian municipalities . <p> " Most people agree that if the Quebec government comes out with any legislation , it will be targeted towards the context that is most problematic , " for example , street demonstrations and traffic blocking incidents , said Rabbi Poupko , adding Jews faced a similar quandary when the government started talking about Bill 21 , which banned the wearing of religious symbols by many public employees . " We all know where this is coming from and the context , " he said . " The target of this legislation is not the Jewish community . We know that we are collateral damage in this . " <p> Rabbi Poupko says when streets are blocked by protesters praying , it is being used as a political tool . " Everyone understands these impromptu prayer services are not done as pious acts of devotion . It 's an attempt to intimidate , to express a form of Islamist supremacism , and when you weaponize prayer , this is the consequence . The radicals have weaponized prayer to disrupt , to demonstrate power . <p> " I ca n't have a picnic in the street , but that does n't mean that the government is trying to starve me . I can go eat at home . And it 's not an infringement on someone 's freedom of expression or freedom of religion not to be allowed to pray in the street . " Banning this activity from public streets is not an act of discrimination or anti -- freedom of expression , he says . " It 's pro-traffic . " <p> The Canadian Civil Liberties Association has expressed alarm about the increased use of the notwithstanding clause by all governments , including Legault 's intentions , and has launched a campaign to alert Canadians to the dangers posed to the Charter by its repeated use and suggested more robust and stringent guardrails for its use . <p> Quebec 's bishops are concerned about the erasure of people and communities of faith from Quebec 's public spaces . Assembly of Quebec Catholic Bishops president Mgr Martin Lalibert ? said such a prohibition would be unenforceable and " off the mark in promoting peaceful co-existence in a secular state . " <p> If a religious group gathers for purposes other than prayer , " Will we then try to ensure that no prayers are recited during a food drive or before a friendly meal ? How can we identify a prayer , and above all , why would we try to do so ? Praying is not dangerous . " <p> Indeed , says Liberal critic Morin , " If you 're just praying in the park , is that something the Premier of Quebec will forbid ? What Fran ? ois Legault is trying to do is very difficult , but it 's on him to explain . " <p> Lalibert ? noted that practices targeted by such a prohibition are not all public actions of religious people , but those of minority religious groups " perceived as different , and , for this reason , threatening to Quebec identity . " He said the rights involved are recognized by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , Article 18 : " Freedom to manifest his religion or belief , alone or in community with others , in public or in private , in teaching , practice , worship and observance ... it is essential to act with great caution , in order to respect the rights and dignity of all people . " <p> During the Bill 21 debates , Poupko says many people were willing to " ' take the hit ' , while others were standing on principle and said we ca n't tolerate anyone taking away any rights . " Even if damage was n't so grave from Bill 21 , he says , " it 's cold comfort for those who want to stand on principle . I really get that . " <p> But he 's confident any legislation will address behaviour to focus on " prayer that obstructs , " and was quick to add that " Jews do n't obstruct traffic to pray -- at most we 'll go to the park for tashlikh for a few minutes , and we 're not talking here about a guy standing in the corner of an airport . Jews praying never obstruct traffic , unless you count the aisle on an El Al flight . " <p> The National Council of Canadian Muslims posted : " Imagine living in a country where the government can come after you for clasping your hands and praying for a loved one in a hospital waiting room . This is extremely concerning ! The time is fast approaching when Canadians will be forced to grapple with the weakness of our charter rights and look for ways to protect ourselves from liberticidal government overreach . As we await the promised legislation , we will be consulting with communities across the country and preparing to stand up for the rights of all Canadians . " <p> Imam Adil Charkaoui of Montreal , who publicly called for the death of Zionists and enemies of Gaza a few weeks after the Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas terrorist attack in Israel -- but ultimately faced no charges owing to religious exceptions to hate speech in Canada 's Criminal Code -- dismissed Legault 's comments . Muslims do n't need anybody 's permission to pray , he stated on social media . It is a right protected by Quebec and Canadian Charters and conferred by Islamic scripture : " The whole earth has been offered to me as a place of prayer and as a means of purification . So anyone in my community at the time of prayer can perform it wherever he is . " <h> Author <h> Support Our Mission : Make a Difference ! <p> The Canadian Jewish News is now a Registered Journalism Organization ( RJO ) as defined by the Canada Revenue Agency . To help support the valuable work we 're doing , we 're asking for individual monthly donations of at least $10 . In exchange , you 'll receive tax receipts , a thank-you gift of our quarterly magazine delivered to your door , and our gratitude for helping continue our mission . If you have any questions about the donating process , please write toemail protected . <h> Support the Media that Speaks to You <p> Jewish Canadians deserve more than social media rumours , adversarial action alerts , and reporting with biases that are often undisclosed . The Canadian Jewish News proudly offers independent national coverage on issues that impact our audience each day , as a conduit for conversations that bridge generations . <p> It 's an outlet you can count on -- but we 're also counting on you . <p> Please support Jewish journalism that 's creative , innovative , and dedicated to breaking new ground to serve your community , while building on media traditions of the past 65 years . As a Registered Journalism Organization , contributions of any size are eligible for a charitable tax receipt .
