<h> Japanese female sumo wrestler brings her tradition to Argentina <p> Canadian Press Videos <p> December 15 , 2024 at 2:06 p.m . <p> Argentina and Japan are separated by thousands of kilometers of land and oceans , but Hiyori Kon is helping boost their cultural bonds through a very traditional Japanese sport like sumo . ( AP video by Cristian Kovadloff ) <p> JJ Lee says he 's a " bit of a Charlie Brown . " " There 's always a sense of loss or mournfulness when I engage with the season , not for any terribly tragic reason , but I 've been trying to come to grips with that understanding , " he told Gloria Macarenko , the host of CBC 's On The Coast.It 's a feeling he 'd noticed in others , who 'd shared their stories of painful , or sometimes comically bad , Christmases . So , a storyteller by nature , Lee pitched the idea of an anthology of tragic Christmas lore to a book <p> The Quebec government will provide Ukrainian refugees with at least three more years of public health insurance coverage . In a statement sent to Radio-Canada on Sunday , the office of Health Minister Christian Dub ? said the public health insurance coverage for Ukrainian refugees -- which was slated to expire in March -- will be extended by three years until March 2028 . " Quebec has shown its support for the Ukrainian people and will honour its commitment , " the statement reads . In August , Quebec sent <p> Yoon was impeached in a second vote by South Korea 's opposition-led parliament over his short-lived attempt to impose martial law , which shocked the nation . KCNA had reported for the first time on Dec. 11 South Korea 's martial law crisis which was sparked on Dec. 3 . On Monday , KCNA did not offer much commentary , but called Yoon 's defiant televised remarks on Dec. 12 " a press statement spliced with lies and obstinacy " and noted the rally in front of South Korean parliament that called for Yoon 's impeachment . <p> ABUJA , Nigeria ( AP ) -- West Africa 's regional bloc , ECOWAS , said Sunday that the impending exit of its three member states led by military juntas is disheartening after a nearly yearlong process of mediation to avert the unprecedented disintegration of the grouping . <p> ABUJA , Nigeria ( AP ) -- West Africa 's regional bloc ECOWAS approved Sunday an exit timeline for three coup-hit nations after a nearly yearlong process of mediation to avert the unprecedented disintegration of the grouping . <p> What started as a few purchases here and there in 2013 has since evolved into a growing annual tradition.David Robertson and his family began the inflatable minions setup on their property after the release of the animated comedy Despicable Me 2 , which traces the exploits of Gru , played by Steve Carell , a villain who aims to become an internationally renowned master criminal . " Canadian Tire had a couple of little ones and then it grew from there , " said Robertson . " They kind of multiplied like ra <p> Israeli strikes in Gaza killed at least 48 Palestinians on Sunday , including an Al Jazeera journalist and rescue workers , local medics said . The attack targeted a refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip and was followed by further Israeli air strikes on a school used as a shelter by displaced Palestinians in Khan Younis , southern Gaza 's main city . Gaza 's civil defence agency said Israeli strikes across the Palestinian territory on Sunday killed at least 40 people , including several children , an A <p> KYIV , Ukraine ( AP ) -- A Ukrainian drone struck a campus belonging to Russia 's National Guard Sunday in the Russian region of Chechnya , as Kyiv continues to strike back after a mass air attack from Moscow . <p> According to Greek authorities , five people are dead , and 39 people have been rescued while search and rescue operations are ongoing off the coast of Crete . Footage released by the Hellenic Navy shows a migrant being rescued and pulled to safety by a navy helicopter . <p> At least five people have been killed and dozens more are believed to be missing after a boat capsized off the coast of the tiny island of Gavdos south of Crete Friday night . Greek authorities said they rescued 39 migrants from the shipwreck and have launched a search operation for survivors . Five migrants died early Saturday when a migrant boat sank off Crete , Greece 's coastguard said , leaving 40 people reportedly missing while 39 survivors were rescued.The boat sank 12 nautical miles southwest <p> NEW YORK -- There is joy in Flushing where no one cares that Steve Cohen spent a record $765 million ( so far ) -- and was prepared to go for more if the Yankees matched him -- for one player in Juan Soto . And while Soto tried to tell us last Thursday it was not about the money but rather what teams wanted to do for the next 15 years , it was as former New York Giants GM George Young so famously put ... <p> In a preview to the fall economic statement , chief political correspondent Rosemary Barton speaks with Sahir Khan , executive vice president of the Institute of Fiscal Studies and Democracy at the University of Ottawa . <p> Hannah Kobayashi , the missing Hawaii woman who was found last week in Mexico , has dashed her family 's hopes of a reunion . Kobayashi , 31 , whose disappearance sparked a police investigation before she was found to have voluntarily left the country , told relatives she did not want to return to her home state , according to her family . Her sister , Sydni , posted a statement on her Facebook saying that she and her mother have not physically seen Hannah , but have spoken on the phone with her .
