<h> Candid photos of Syria 's Assad expose a world beyond the carefully crafted and repressive rule <p> SALLY ABOU ALJOUD <p> Updated December 15 , 2024 at 7:58 a.m. *2 min read <p> 1 / 2 <h> Syria Assad Pictures <p> FILE. - A man shows old pictures of the late Syrian President Hafez Assad as civilians ransack the private residence of overthrown President Bashar Assad in the Malkeh district of Damascus , Syria , on Sunday , Dec. 8 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed , File ) <p> ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> BEIRUT ( AP ) -- Personal photos of ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad have surfaced from his abandoned residences , sparking ridicule among Syrians who until days ago were persecuted for criticizing his carefully crafted public image . <p> The intimate and candid photos , reportedly discovered in albums from Assad 's mansions in the hills of Damascus and Aleppo , offer a stark contrast to the polished , glamorous image that Assad and his father projected as they led Syria for half a century . <p> Syrians have been fascinated by the background glimpses of a seemingly normal family that held the country in an iron grip and bombed some their fellow citizens regarded as a threat . The sharing of photos has become an extension of the dazed first hours after Assad 's ouster a week ago , when everyday Syrians wandered the presidential palace and its disheveled signs of a rapid departure . Assad has been granted asylum in Russia . <p> For many Syrians who had endured forced imprisonment , displacement and oppression under the Assads , the photos serve as both a spectacle and a chance to exhale , even laugh . <p> One photo shows Assad 's father , Hafez , in his underwear , striking a bodybuilder-like pose . Other images show Bashar Assad in a Speedo flexing his biceps , astride a motorcycle in his briefs and staring blankly in a kitchen , wearing underwear and a sleeveless undershirt . <p> " What is it with the Assad family and being photographed in their underwear ? Highly interested in knowing the fantasy behind , " journalist Hussam Hammoud wrote on X. <p> In the photos , Syrians can see the ophthalmologist in Assad and not the leader . In one , he 's on a balcony teasing a girl sitting on his shoulders . In another , a young Assad places a ring on his wife 's finger . In a third , he 's seemingly taking a selfie . <p> Social media footage also has shown Syrians touring the Assads ' opulent estates , revealing extravagant decor and possessions out of reach for many who lived through the country 's civil war since 2011 . Assad 's wife , once featured in Vogue , epitomized the sophistication and luxury , and Syrians have uncovered jewelry boxes and designer goods . <p> Fueled by decades of persecution and a desire for vengeance , people have stripped the mansions of valuables and further exposed Assad 's private world . <p> Israel 's foreign minister has ordered the closure of the country 's embassy in Dublin , citing the Irish government 's " extreme anti-Israel policy " . Gideon Sa'ar said " Ireland has crossed every red line in its relations with Israel " . " The actions and antisemitic rhetoric used by Ireland against Israel are rooted in the delegitimisation and demonisation of the Jewish state , along with double standards , " he said in a statement . <p> Students returned to classes at Damascus University in Syria on Sunday , December 15 , as the new leadership reopened educational facilities following the fall of Bashar al-Assad 's regime.Video captured by Syrian video journalist Obada Jbara shows students gathering at Damascus University and conducting a prayer.Other footage widely circulating on social media showed students toppling and dragging a statue of Hafez al-Assad , father of Bashar al-Assad and former Syrian president , on campus.The president of Damascus University issued a statement on X through the university 's official page , saying the country was " facing a new phase in history , " according to machine translation . " I hope it will be full of goodness . I assure our students and their families that the educational process will continue , and the deans and teaching staff have been directed to exercise their paternal and cognitive roles , " he wrote . " The university will continue its role in preserving the gains and rights of our students . " Credit : Obada Jbara via Storyful <p> Hannah Kobayashi , the missing Hawaii woman who was found last week in Mexico , has dashed her family 's hopes of a reunion . Kobayashi , 31 , whose disappearance sparked a police investigation before she was found to have voluntarily left the country , told relatives she did not want to return to her home state , according to her family . Her sister , Sydni , posted a statement on her Facebook saying that she and her mother have not physically seen Hannah , but have spoken on the phone with her . <p> At face value , Ryan Borgwardt , Hannah Kobayashi and Luigi Mangione lead distinct lives and come from disparate backgrounds . Yet , they all made the same unexpected decision : disappear from their jobs , routines , friends and family . <p> STORY : : : A severe fuel shortage has led to long queues of cars forming in front of gas stations in Damascus : : December 14 , 2024 : : Damascus , SyriaA severe fuel shortage lasting more than ten days has led to long queues of cars forming in front of gas stations in Damascus.After a brutal 54-year rule and a 13-year civil war , Syrian rebels ousted Syrian president Bashar al-Assad , in a generational change for the Middle East.The world is carefully watching to see if Syria 's new rulers can stabilise the country and avoid unleashing violent revenge , after a 13-year civil war fought along sectarian and ethnic lines.Regime corruption and Western sanctions have been affecting all sectors of life in Syria which have imposed major burdens on citizens who suffer to find their essential needs with high prices.Rebuilding Syria is a colossal task following the civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of people , reduced cities to ruins and left the economy gutted by international sanctions . <p> Former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has revealed who he believes is destined to lead the Republicans into the next election in 2028 . In an interview with CNN 's Jake Tapper on State of the Union Sunday , the Utah senator said he believes vice-president-elect JD Vance will take over the mantle from President-elect Donald Trump . " If you were to ask me who the nominee will be in 2028 I think it 'd be JD , Vance , " Romney said . " He 's smart , well-spoken , part of the MAGA movement . " <p> Amid ongoing mystery drone sightings in New York and New Jersey over the last few weeks , President-elect Donald Trump took a dig at the Garden State 's former governor , Chris Christie , sharing a picture that asserts he is behind the drone sightings . The president-elect posted the viral AI-generated meme to his social media accounts on Saturday , depicting Christie scarfing down McDonald 's burgers while drones in the background delivered him more meals . The original image was captioned , " We now kno <p> CNN senior political analyst Ron Brownstein joins CNN 's Jessica Dean to discuss how Trump 's policy agenda , including tariffs , mass deportation , and cuts to Medicaid could conflict with the interests of his rural supporters . <p> Israel recalled its ambassador after Ireland 's decision on a Palestinian state in May , and was further angered last week when Dublin backed South Africa 's case at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) accusing Israel of genocide . " The decision to close Israel 's embassy in Dublin was made in light of the extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government , " the foreign ministry said in a statement . <p> Top diplomats from the United States , the Arab League and Turkey met in Jordan on Saturday to discuss how to assist Syria ' s transition after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government a week ago . The collapse of the Assad family 's more than half-century of rule has sparked new fears of instability in a region already shaken by the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza and hostilities between Israel and the Lebanon-based Hezbollah despite a tenuous ceasefire .
