<p> Shannon Gormley is an independent journalist who covers foreign affairs . <p> " Syria is not our problem . " So declared the world 's biggest problem , Donald Trump , seven years ago . " This is not our fight , " he reiterated last week , after Syria 's fourteen-year civil war had changed the course of world history . <p> On Sunday , a Syrian dynasty 's half-century murderous rule ended when the latest , and hopefully last , Assad dictator fled to Russia . Bashar al-Assad 's new quarters will be more luxurious than those of the millions of Syrians who ran from his Russian-supported barrel bombs , chemical attacks , starvation sieges , and torture bunkers . He will be protected , again by Russia , from any further price for his barbarity , including criminal prosecution . <p> Assad did n't win , after all . But unlike his victims , he did n't lose everything , and what he did lose he did n't lose fast . Trump , it 's worth remembering , is not the only Westerner who believed that Syria was someone else 's problem . <p> Begin with President Barack Obama . He promised not to go war with Russia over Syria . With those words , he relinquished the country to Vladimir Putin for a decade . At least he kept that promise . His previous vow had been that chemical weapons attacks constituted a red line . When Assad crossed that line with a sarin gas attack that suffocated 1,500 Syrians to -- a third of them children -- in August 2013 , Obama did n't produce any of his promised " enormous consequences " . <p> President Trump was at least straightforward about not caring about Syria . And if his administration largely allowed Russia to call the shots , that was at least on-brand . <p> Biden 's approach to Syria was to avoid rocking the boat , which in practice meant keeping Assad safe . Even now in Syria , at a moment of maximum opportunity , Biden has expressed little interest . On Monday , State Department spokesman Matthew Miller said , " It is not for the United States to try to use its influence " in Syria . Who is it for , then ? Russia ? Iran ? <p> In these presidents ' defence , the public was just as indifferent to Assad 's overwhelmingly Sunni Muslim victims . It took four years of innumerable dead-baby-photos for one of them to spark public concern of much humanitarian consequence . Compare this to the instantaneous outcry over other recent bloody military campaigns in the Middle East -- also featuring criminal atrocities -- that have displaced millions fewer people , killed hundreds of thousands fewer victims , and had far less prevalent evidence of torture , executions , and chemical weapons-use . <p> No one knows precisely how world history would have unfolded had the United States acted differently in Syria . What we do know is how history unfolded when America acted , or failed to act , as it did . Poorly managed flows of Syrian refugees into Europe energized the United Kingdom 's " Take Back Control " Brexit campaign . Brexit greased the wheels of Trump 's first presidential win . Trump 's presidency emboldened Russia . An emboldened Russia invaded Ukraine . Meanwhile , another of Assad 's benefactors , Iran , grew stronger , which meant its proxy , Hezbollah , grew stronger , which meant its other proxy , Hamas , grew stronger , which allowed Hamas to commit the mass kidnapping , rape , and execution of over a thousand Israelis , which triggered Israel 's relentless bombing of Gaza and invasion of Lebanon , which pulled some American focus from Ukraine , if not American voters from the Democrats . Which helped elect Trump again . <p> No wonder Trump does n't think Syria is a problem . <p> It took fourteen years of failed American foreign policy for hope to emerge in Syria . That hope is perilous . A bloody dictator is gone , but in his place now is a smooth-talking Islamist whose temperate language may indicate a non-religious conversion , or who may , like the Taliban in Afghanistan , and Mohammed bin Salman in Saudi Arabia , say all the right things before doing all the worst ones . But perilous hope is hope nonetheless . For the moment , Russia , like its newest house guest , is on the run ; Iran , too , is scrambling , while its many proxies find their weapons-routes closed . <p> But hope for Syria can easily be extinguished by an American president who is not only intellectually incapable of advancing the interests of democracies abroad , but who -- like his predecessors , and much of the public itself -- is constitutionally disinclined to even try . <p> Shannon Gormley is an independent journalist who covers foreign affairs . <p> Opinion articles are based on the author 's interpretations and judgments of facts , data and events . More details
