<h> Sections <p> Recently released data from Statistics Canada shows a record high in the number of people who chose medical assistance in dying ( MAID ) in 2023 , but critics of the law say there were more than 600 cases last year where they believe the program should n't have been an option at all . <p> Those cases did not involve patients with a terminal illness ; instead , critics claim mental health issues played a significant role in the decision to choose death . And while MAID for non-terminal patients has been legal since 2021 , critics say that the wider eligibility takes things too far . <p> Last year , 15,343 people received MAID , a 15.8-per-cent increase from the year prior . Among those who participated in the program in 2023 , 95.9 per cent of patients were facing a natural death that was " reasonably foreseeable " -- cases known as Track 1 <p> The remaining 622 patients fell into Track 2 : cases where living a long life is possible , but the patient chose death because of other factors , which may include mental health issues . <p> Though a terminal illness is no longer a requirement for the program , eligibility remains restricted to adults with what Health Canada calls a " serious or incurable illness , disease or disability , " who are facing " an advanced state of irreversible decline in capability " and who " have enduring and intolerable physical or psychological suffering that can not be alleviated under conditions the person considers acceptable . " <p> Dr. Sonu Gaind , a psychiatry professor at the University of Toronto , says the system as it currently operates is troubling . <p> " It 's particularly concerning for the path to MAID for disabled people who are not otherwise dying , because in that path , the nature of suffering parallels the traditional markers of suicide , " he told CTV News in an interview Saturday . " That includes things like feeling a burden and a strong sense of loneliness . " <p> The StatCan report found that , in the 622 MAID cases where natural death was not " reasonably foreseeable , " 47 per cent suffered from isolation or loneliness and 49 per cent perceived themselves to be a burden to family , friends and caregivers . <p> " The only reason they died last year was because they were provided MAID , " said Gaind . " We 're talking about people , in some cases , that had more than 10 years to live . That should raise some red flags . " <p> Critics of the current MAID laws argue that people with disabilities need better support and resources instead of giving them medically assisted death as an option . In September , a coalition of disability rights groups launched a Charter challenge in Ontario over a section of Canada 's MAID law . <p> " It 's discriminatory because when other people express loneliness or a loss of dignity or a desire with die , we usually respond with support or prevention -- but with people with disabilities , we respond with an offer for MAID , " said UBC law professor Isabel Grant in a Saturday interview with CTV News . <p> Critics say MAID should be reserved exclusively for Track 1 patients , and with disabilities or illnesses are able to live many years . <p> " For those situations , I do n't think we 're providing death under honest pretenses ; it 's false pretenses , " said Gaind . " We 're pretending we 're providing it for illness suffering , when in reality those MAID provisions are being fuelled by very different sort of suffering -- so that 's actually white-washing what we 're providing death for , and medicalizing something that 's actually a social situation . <p> But advocates of the current MAID laws say that tightening restrictions will create increased hurdles for those considering a medically assisted death . <p> " These are people who are suffering intolerably , who have a grievous and irremediable condition , who are thinking about their end of life , " said Helen Long with Dying with Dignity Canada to CTV News on Thursday . " We do n't want to put in any more barriers or make the process any harder than it has to be for them , while still maintaining all of the many , very adequate safeguards that are in place . " <p> Earlier this year , the Liberal government chose to delay for the third time a planned expansion of medical assistance in dying to include people with a mental illness as their sole medical condition until March of 2027 . Under the current system , MAID eligibility is only granted in cases involving an underlying physical illness . <p> Since medical assistance in dying was legalized in 2016 , there have been 28,584 MAID recipients in Canada , as of the end of 2023 . <p> Bizarre and personal photos of ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad have surfaced from his abandoned residences , sparking ridicule among Syrians who only until recently were persecuted for criticizing his leadership . <p> Israel said Sunday it will close its embassy in Ireland as relations deteriorated over the war in Gaza , where Palestinian medical officials said new Israeli airstrikes killed over 30 people including several children . <p> After weeks of fear and bewilderment about the drones buzzing over parts of New York and New Jersey , U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer is urging the federal government to deploy better drone-tracking technology to identify and ultimately stop the airborne pests . <p> If the Canadian government wants to make headway with the incoming U.S. administration , it should look at scrapping some sticking-point policies , such as the controversial digital services tax , former Liberal finance minister Bill Morneau says . <p> The Liberals ' fall economic statement Monday is expected to show a larger-than-promised deficit and offer details on how the government will tackle the threat of U.S. tariffs ahead of Donald Trump 's inauguration in the new year . <p> This week , Labour Minister Steven MacKinnon announced a ' time-out ' in the ongoing Canada Post strike . In a way , Canadian Union of Postal Workers ( CUPW ) negotiator Jim Gallant says he agrees with that phrasing . <p> A seven-year-old rivalry between tech leaders Elon Musk and Sam Altman over who should run OpenAI and prevent an artificial intelligence ' dictatorship ' is now heading to a federal judge as Musk seeks to halt the ChatGPT maker 's ongoing shift into a for-profit company . <p> Accurately predicting the weather is hard -- really hard , but a new AI-powered forecast model just hit a milestone that has experts saying your forecast could soon get more accurate , and further out , too . <p> Inflation likely hovered at or a little above the Bank of Canada 's two per cent target rate in November , economists expect , after Taylor Swift 's Eras Tour swept through Toronto and offered a temporary economic boost . <p> General Motors is pulling the plug on its efforts to develop a fleet of driverless taxis and will focus on driver-assistance features that require a driver to be ready to take control of the car , the company said Tuesday . <p> Max Bell Arena was the scene of more precise choreography than a performance of The Nutcracker Saturday , as hundreds of synchronized skaters from across Western Canada participated in the 40th Rose Bowl Synchronized Skating Competition . <p> The Edmonton Oilers have rediscovered their scoring touch . One game after scoring seven goals against Minnesota , the Oilers earned a 6-3 victory over the Vegas Golden Knights on Saturday to extend their NHL win streak to five games . <p> With the amount of snow that Saskatchewan has seen over the past few weeks , ski hills are beginning to open their doors to the public for the season . At Table Mountain , just outside of the Battlefords , this last weekend marked their grand opening . <p> A diabetic man who claimed he had been drinking alcohol to combat dwindling blood sugar the night he was involved in a fatal crash near Sicamous , B.C. , has been found guilty of impaired driving causing death . <p> Team Canada announced its 2025 IIHF World Junior Hockey Championship roster on Friday , including three players on southern Alberta WHL teams . Tanner Howe , of the Calgary Hitmen , Brayden Yager , of the Lethbridge Hurricanes , and Gavin McKenna , of the Medicine Hat Tigers , were among the 14 forwards that will be donning the maple leaf later this month . <p> Returning from a trip to the U.S. capital , Vic Fedeli , Ontario 's Minister of Economic Development , Job Creation and Trade says Canada must unite against looming tariff threats that could be imposed by President-elect Donald Trump . <p> Quebec and Newfoundland and Labrador have signed a sweeping new deal to build new energy projects and throw out a decades-old contract that has long been a source of strife and bitterness for Canada 's easternmost province .
