<h> The ' playful trauma ' bringing war to your social feeds <p> In the aftermath of Russia 's invasion in the early months of 2022 , Valeria Shashenok , a 23-year-old Ukrainian woman , began posting videos to TikTok of her family 's daily life under siege . This video from a shelter is accompanied by crooner Louis Prima 's rollicking version of Che La Luna Mezzo Mare , which she rhythmically snaps along to.Valerisssh/Tik Tok <p> Tom Divon is a PhD student researching digital culture and user-generated content in the Department of Communication and Journalism at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem . Moa Eriksson Krutr ? k is a media and communication scholar connected to the Centre for Digital Social Research at Ume ? University in Sweden . She is also the editor of the Journal of Digital Social Research . <p> In recent years , the world has collectively witnessed profound levels of violence , mass displacement , and the relentless bombardment of civilian and vital infrastructure in conflict zones across the globe . The world 's attention has been gripped by continuing devastation in places like Ukraine , Gaza , and Lebanon , transmitted to us by media outlets that have tirelessly covered these stories . But there are new modes of information-sharing that have set these conflicts apart from previous ones , and given new depth to the personal , on-the-ground experiences of individuals who are living through these wars . <p> Young people , often caught in the crossfire of conflicts , have turned to social media -- a platform they already associate with everyday life -- to share their personal experiences of war in innovative and effective ways . In turn , we believe they are reshaping how war is viewed by the general public , particularly members of their own generation . It is now more possible than ever to witness the violence of war in real-time through the eyes of the civilians living through it , intensifying the emotional urgency and devastating impacts of these conflicts . <p> Conflict-related content has become increasingly personalized , imitative and shareable , particularly since many of today 's youth have grown up not knowing a world without social media . TikTok has notably become a significant space for sharing such content within the digital landscape , amplifying the immediacy of war and humanizing its impacts . As academics studying digital culture , our current research highlights how social media , and TikTok in particular , has been used by young people to share their experiences of war in real-time , intertwining personal trauma with the platform 's engaging style . TikTok 's vast reach has empowered these users to bring their trauma into the global spotlight , while also building international awareness of their plights . And this awareness has mattered greatly ; with TikTok 's largely young user base , social media posts documenting the ongoing violence in the Gaza Strip , for example , were likely a catalyst for the large number of student protests and encampments that sprung up on university campuses in the Western world this year . <p> A key focus of our research has been the ways in which TikTok 's unique structure enables users to merge trauma with humour , creating what we term " playful trauma . " Here , TikTok 's templates transform distressing experiences into content that is both poignant and , often , unexpectedly amusing . <p> Take , for example , the videos uploaded to TikTok by Valeria Shashenok , a 23-year-old Ukrainian woman from Chernihiv ( a city near Ukraine 's borders with both Belarus and Russia ) . In the aftermath of Russia 's invasion in the early months of 2022 , she began posting videos of her family 's daily life under siege , from living in a bomb shelter , to looking for food and supplies , to mourning the death of a family member . Her content is devastating , but the tone of some of it is something else entirely ; in one video , footage of bombed buildings and clips of her daily life in a shelter are accompanied by the rollicking 1972 version of C ' ? la luna mezzo mare by jazz crooner Louis Prima , which she rhythmically snaps along to . <p> One can understand that the creator is living in terrifying circumstances , but the result is also bizarrely funny , demonstrating a striking resistance to Vladimir Putin 's military efforts ( and garnering 6.8 million likes on TikTok ) . <p> Russians themselves also took to TikTok to resist government actions in the wake of the Ukraine invasion . In April , 2022 , a TikTok account called @ironcurtainlyf uploaded footage of their " point-of-view " or " POV , " from St. Petersburg ( or St. Policeburg , as they call it ) , using the Sex and the City theme song to accompany several clips of Russian police surveilling residents en masse , and ostensibly arresting people found to be protesting the Ukraine invasion . <p> This type of content may seem offensive , or shocking to some . But this approach reflects a longstanding tradition on social media platforms of using humour as a coping mechanism , recasting the harsh realities of adversity into accessible , and sometimes ironically playful , narratives that foster resilience and community . <p> These practices are also evident in other conflict zones , with creators in Gaza and Lebanon employing similar methods to share their " POVs " amid the current Israeli offensives . <p> In Gaza , TikTok users have shown what their daily lives are like under constant threat in refugee camps , drawing viewers in to the intimate realities of their experience . <p> Mohamad Imad Khalidi ( username @mohammadkh1 ) is a young man in Gaza who frequently uploads short vlogs of his day-to-day life ; he cleans the floors of his family 's tent , cooks simple dishes with the ingredients he manages to scrape together , and in recent months he has even managed to plant a garden . <p> Mohamad 's videos , and others like them , feel intensely personal , allowing viewers from around the world to intimately sense what life is like amid conflict . We can see that routines in Gaza are often interrupted by the sounds of air strikes or scrambling to find safety during shelling , capturing the resilience of the people living there , but also the precariousness of their existence . <p> In Lebanon , creators often use dark humour to draw attention to what it means to live under the constant threat of bombardment . In the midst of Israeli strikes in late November , Lebanese TikTok creator @timakh9 shared what would otherwise be a mundane , short clip showcasing a pineapple juice box , only they were doing so against the backdrop of shattered buildings , playing on the absurdity of finding " normal " moments in the midst of dire conditions . <p> Delving into " playful trauma " is essential for comprehending how social media can shape public perception , offering insight into the lived realities of creators in conflict zones . <p> For creators in Gaza , posting to social media is a vital act of resilience in a media landscape where their voices are often marginalized , and portrayals , particularly from Israeli outlets , tend toward dehumanization . By sharing glimpses of their everyday lives , these creators defy an overwhelming narrative of despair , reminding the world that the civilians in this territory have not consigned themselves to death , but are instead fuelled by a commitment to life . <p> This phenomenon disrupts typical victim narratives , rendering creators not as passive victims , but as active agents who have harnessed social media platforms to share , adapt and resist . <p> By making their experiences accessible and relatable , TikTok creators mobilize a form of digital empathy that challenges distant audiences to engage with their realities . Our research suggests that when incorporating memes as frameworks for trauma communication during wars , these videos are more highly engaged with by online audiences . <p> This shows that social media use during wartime can shift global perceptions , contribute to more informed public discourse , and even influence how we respond to trauma on both personal and collective levels , locally and globally . <p> While TikTok provides content creators with a space to process and express their trauma through performative acts , " playful trauma " also carries the risk of trivializing or aestheticizing the severe realities of wars . <p> The pressure to make trauma visible for engagement may lead creators to emphasize dramatic moments , potentially sidelining the deeper psychological impacts of their experiences ( which are less algorithmically affirmative ) . This focus on the performative risks fostering superficial understandings of the actual trauma being shared . <p> So , the next time you encounter playful trauma on your social media feeds , take a moment to reflect on the underlying message . What are these creators truly trying to communicate through humour in the face of adversity ? Why might they choose to depict life under siege with irony or laughter ? <p> As MIT philosophy professor Kieran Setiya has written , " Comedic pedagogy sugars the pill of painful truths ... what comics convey is not just information but the practice of political critique . They make it fun to look beneath the surface of society and inspire us to follow them in doing so . " <p> And follow them we must . Is seeking shelter from bombs , or enduring life in tents really something to simply joke about -- or is the use of humour in these circumstances a testament to resilience in the midst of despair ? From a research perspective , we argue it is the latter . For those living in despair , humour might be the only lifeline that reconnects them to their humanity , as a powerful way to reclaim a sense of vitality and agency amid unimaginable circumstances . <p> But our increasingly intimate view of the victims of conflict risks becoming a spectacle , drawing us into a reality that feels almost scripted , like a TV series . We must resist the instinct to view this content with passive amusement ; instead , we implore everyone to bear witness to this suffering with intentional presence , and consider the very real consequences of what we 're seeing online .
