<h> Bios <h> Sections <h> Pope Francis makes first papal visit to France 's Corsica awash in expressions of popular piety <p> Pope Francis stands as he celebrates a mass Sunday , Dec. 15 , 2024 in the French island of Corsica . ( AP Photo/Thibault Camus ) <p> Share <p> AJACCIO , Corsica - <p> Pope Francis on the first papal visit ever to the French island of Corsica on Sunday called for a dynamic form of laicism , promoting the kind of popular piety that distinguishes the Mediterranean island from secular France as a bridge between religious and civic society . <p> Francis appeared relaxed and energized during the one-day visit , just two days before his 88th birthday , still displaying a faded bruise from a fall a week ago . <p> He frequently deviated from his prepared homily during Mass at the outdoor La Place d'Austerlitz , remarking at one point that he had never seen so many children as in Corsica -- except , he added , in East Timor on his recent Asian tour . <p> " Make children , ? he implored . " They will be your joy and your consolation in the future . " <p> Earlier , at the close of a Mediterranean conference on popular piety , Papa Francescu , as he is called in Corsican , described a concept of secularity " that is not static and fixed , but evolving and dynamic , " that can adapt to " unforeseen situations " and promote cooperation " between civil and ecclesial authorities . " <p> The pontiff said that expressions of popular piety , including processions and communal prayer of the Holy Rosary " can nurture constructive citizenship " on the part of Christians . At the same time , he warned against such manifestations being seen only in terms of folklore , or even superstition . <p> The visit to Corsica 's capital Ajaccio , the birthplace of Napoleon , is one of the briefest of his papacy beyond Italy 's borders , just about nine hours on the ground , including a 40-minute visit with French President Emmanuel Macron . <p> Pope Francis shakes hands with French President Emmanuel Macron in Ajaccio at the end of his one-day visit in the French island of Corsica , Sunday , Dec. 15 , 2024 . ( Tiziana Fabi , Pool Via AP ) <p> Francis was joined on the dais by the bishop of Ajaccio , Cardinal Francois-Xavier Bustillo , who organized the conference that brought together some 400 participants from Spain , Sicily , Sardinia and southern France . The two-day meeting examined expressions of faith that often occur outside formal liturgies , such as processions and pilgrimages . <p> Often specific to the places where they are practiced , popular piety in Corsica includes the cult of the Virgin Mary , known locally as the " Madunnuccia , " which protected the island from the plague in 1656 when it was still under Genoa . <p> Corsica stands out from the rest of secularized France as a particularly devout region , with 92 confraternities , or lay associations dedicated to works of charity or piety , with over 4,000 members . <p> Faithful wait for the start of a mass celebrated by Pope Francis in the French island of Corsica , Sunday , Dec. 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Alessandra Tarantino ) <p> " It means that there is a beautiful , mature , adult and responsible collaboration between civil authorities , mayors , deputies , senators , officials and religious authorities , ' ' Bustillo told The Associated Press ahead of the visit . " There is no hostility between the two . And that is a very positive aspect because in Corsica there is no ideological hostility . " <p> The visit was awash in signs of popular piety . The pope was greeted by children in traditional garb and was continually serenaded by bands , choruses and singing troupes that are central to Corsican culture from the airport , to the motorcade route , convention center and cathedral . Thousands stood along the roadside to greet the pontiff and more waved from windows . <p> Ren ? Colombani traveled with 2,000 others by ship from northern Corsica to Ajaccio , on the western coast , to see the pope . <p> " It is an event that we will not see again in several years . It may be the only time that the pope will come to Corsica . And since we wanted to be a part of it , we have come a long way ? Colombani said . <p> The island , which Genoa ceded to France in 1768 , is located closer to the Italian mainland than France . <p> Priests wait for the start of a mass celebrated by Pope Francis in Ajaccio " Place d'Austerlitz " during his visit in the French island of Corsica , Sunday , Dec. 15 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Alessandra Tarantino ) <p> From the conference , the pope traveled to the 17th-century cathedral of Santa Maria Assunta to meet with clergy , stopping along the way at the statue of the Madunnuccia where he lit a devotional candle . <p> The pope celebrated Mass beneath a looming statue of Napoleon Bonaparte , the French emperor whose armies in 1808 annexed the papal states and imprisoned two of Francis ' predecessors -- Popes Pius VI and VII -- before being excommunicated and eventually defeated on the battlefield . Thousands packed the esplanade where Napoleon is said to have played as a child . <p> Francis met privately with Macron at the airport before departing for the 50-minute flight back to Rome . <p> They were slated to talk about the world 's crises , including wars in the Middle East and Ukraine , and environment and climate-related issues , Macron 's office said . Macron presented the pope with two books about Notre Dame Cathedral . <p> The pontiff pointedly did not make the trip to Paris earlier this month for the pomp surrounding the reopening of the Notre Dame Cathedral following the devastating 2019 fire . The visit to Corsica seems far more suited to Francis ' priorities than a grand cathedral reopening , emphasizing the " church of the peripheries . " <p> It is Francis ' third trip to France , each time avoiding Paris and the protocols that a state visit entails . He visited the port of Marseille in 2023 , on an overnight visit to participate in an annual summit of Mediterranean bishops , and went to Strasbourg in 2014 to address the European Parliament and Council of Europe . <p> Corsica is home to more than 340,000 people and has been part of France since 1768 . But the island has also seen pro-independence violence and has an influential nationalist movement . Last year , Macron proposed granting it limited autonomy . <p> <p> Associated Press writers Colleen Barry in Milan and Sylvie Corbet in Paris contributed to this report . <p> Bizarre and personal photos of ousted Syrian President Bashar Assad have surfaced from his abandoned residences , sparking ridicule among Syrians who only until recently were persecuted for criticizing his leadership . <p> Israel said Sunday it will close its embassy in Ireland as relations deteriorated over the war in Gaza , where Palestinian medical officials said new Israeli airstrikes killed over 30 people including several children . <p> After weeks of fear and bewilderment about the drones buzzing over parts of New York and New Jersey , U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer is urging the federal government to deploy better drone-tracking technology to identify and ultimately stop the airborne pests . <p> If the Canadian government wants to make headway with the incoming U.S. administration , it should look at scrapping some sticking-point policies , such as the controversial digital services tax , former Liberal finance minister Bill Morneau says . <p> The Liberals ' fall economic statement Monday is expected to show a larger-than-promised deficit and offer details on how the government will tackle the threat of U.S. tariffs ahead of Donald Trump 's inauguration in the new year . <p> This week , Labour Minister Steven MacKinnon announced a ' time-out ' in the ongoing Canada Post strike . In a way , Canadian Union of Postal Workers ( CUPW ) negotiator Jim Gallant says he agrees with that phrasing . <p> A seven-year-old rivalry between tech leaders Elon Musk and Sam Altman over who should run OpenAI and prevent an artificial intelligence ' dictatorship ' is now heading to a federal judge as Musk seeks to halt the ChatGPT maker 's ongoing shift into a for-profit company . <p> Accurately predicting the weather is hard -- really hard , but a new AI-powered forecast model just hit a milestone that has experts saying your forecast could soon get more accurate , and further out , too . <p> Inflation likely hovered at or a little above the Bank of Canada 's two per cent target rate in November , economists expect , after Taylor Swift 's Eras Tour swept through Toronto and offered a temporary economic boost . <p> General Motors is pulling the plug on its efforts to develop a fleet of driverless taxis and will focus on driver-assistance features that require a driver to be ready to take control of the car , the company said Tuesday . <p> Max Bell Arena was the scene of more precise choreography than a performance of The Nutcracker Saturday , as hundreds of synchronized skaters from across Western Canada participated in the 40th Rose Bowl Synchronized Skating Competition . <p> The Edmonton Oilers have rediscovered their scoring touch . One game after scoring seven goals against Minnesota , the Oilers earned a 6-3 victory over the Vegas Golden Knights on Saturday to extend their NHL win streak to five games . <p> With the amount of snow that Saskatchewan has seen over the past few weeks , ski hills are beginning to open their doors to the public for the season . At Table Mountain , just outside of the Battlefords , this last weekend marked their grand opening . <p> A diabetic man who claimed he had been drinking alcohol to combat dwindling blood sugar the night he was involved in a fatal crash near Sicamous , B.C. , has been found guilty of impaired driving causing death . <p> Team Canada announced its 2025 IIHF World Junior Hockey Championship roster on Friday , including three players on southern Alberta WHL teams . Tanner Howe , of the Calgary Hitmen , Brayden Yager , of the Lethbridge Hurricanes , and Gavin McKenna , of the Medicine Hat Tigers , were among the 14 forwards that will be donning the maple leaf later this month . <p> Returning from a trip to the U.S. capital , Vic Fedeli , Ontario 's Minister of Economic Development , Job Creation and Trade says Canada must unite against looming tariff threats that could be imposed by President-elect Donald Trump . <p> Quebec and Newfoundland and Labrador have signed a sweeping new deal to build new energy projects and throw out a decades-old contract that has long been a source of strife and bitterness for Canada 's easternmost province .
