<p> Chronic Law on stage at the Half Time Performace at the Kingston College vs St.Catherine High Scool Manning Cup Finals played at National Stadium , Kingston on Friday , December 6 . He is ready to perform at Freedom Sreet on New Year 's Eve at the National Stadium in Kingston . <p> Vybz Kartel is in deep , daily rehearsals for the Freedom Street Concert scheduled for New Year 's Eve at the National Stadium in Kingston . He is joined at rehearsals by his teams of dancers and guest stars , led by choreographer Rebel ( a star of the PTR crew from the series Dancehall Life ) . <p> A press release stated that after 13 long years of not performing for his fans , Kartel " plans on delivering a show like no one has ever seen before " . <p> Produced by the Joe Bogdanovich-led Downsound Entertainment , the outfit is pulling out all the stops as it relates to the stage , sound and light . Reports are that staging will include a never-done-before gigantic theatre in the round with huge 360-degree sound , lights , video , and lasers on such a scale that it is requiring staging and crews to be flown in from London , Los Angeles , and Las Vegas . <p> " In addition to non-stop music from Kartel &amp; Friends and choreographed dancing , the over-the-top production that includes a laser light show and a fantastic fireworks display wiil make it a night to remember ! Celebrities and fans from around the world are flying in for this lavish event , " the release stated , while not revealing the names of any of the celebrities . <p> " We 're talking about a New Year 's Eve that will rewrite the rules , shake the ground , and echo through the ages ! Freedom Street is more than a name ; it 's a gathering , a movement , and a declaration that the ' Worl ' Boss ' is returning to his throne , " Bogdanovich stated . <h> Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox <h> ALL-STAR LINE-UP <p> Vybz Kartel is bringing an army of international stars to support and perform with him on his return to the stage . He will be joined on stage by Spice , Popcaan , Skillibeng , Tommy Lee , Chronic Law , Shawn Storm , Lisa Hyper , Sheba , Gaza Indu , Likkle Addie and Likkle Vybz . The host of the December 31 event is MC Nuffy , who is known for his unmatched energy and quick wit . <p> The event is offering a limited number of special eight-person cycle track pods at a cost of US$12,500 each . These furnished ultra-VIP pods come with waiter and security and one of the best viewing spots in the house . The package is inclusive of substantial beverage and bottle service . <p> Adidja Azim Palmer , better known as Vybz Kartel , is also referred to as ' Worl ' Boss ' or ' Teacha ' . One of Jamaica 's most popular artistes , he has collaborated with performers such as Jay-Z , Eminem and Rihanna . His best-known hits include Clarks , Ramping Shop and Summer Time . His success led to him launching lines of shoes , alcohol and condoms . <p> The singer also became the first dancehall artiste to star in his own reality TV show , Teacha 's Pet .
