<p> The family of a Turkish American activist who was killed by the Israeli military in the occupied West Bank is amplifying their months-long demand for an independent , U.S.-led investigation into her death -- this time , in the U.S. capital . <p> Aysenur Ezgi Eygi 's loved ones joined advocates and progressive lawmakers Tuesday in calling on the Biden administration to fight for justice and accountability on behalf of the 26-year-old American citizen . She was shot dead on Sept. 6 by a still-unidentified soldier while volunteering as a peaceful international observer for Palestinians protesting Israel 's illegal settlement expansion in the West Bank . <p> Advertisement <p> " Through letters and conversations , we have asked the administration to stand on its word , ' If you hurt an American , we will respond , ' " Rep. Delia Ramirez ( D-Ill. ) said at a press conference , referring to a comment President Joe Biden made at the time of Eygi 's killing . " Well , we 're here . We 've been here , and it 's time to respond . <p> " It is time for an independent , U.S.-led investigation into her killing , and all the American citizens who have been murdered by Israeli military operations , " she continued . " It is time to put an end to the weapons and the bombs that feed a campaign of death and of destruction . It is time to have those responsible be held accountable . " <p> Hamid Ali , husband to slain activist Aysenur Eygi , speaks during a press conference outside the Capitol demanding justice and accountability for Israel killing her earlier this year in the West Bank , in Washington D.C. , United States on Dec. 17 , 2024 . <p> Celal Gunes/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Advertisement <p> Both the White House and the State Department expressed frustration with the Israeli government in the immediate aftermath of Eygi 's killing , though the slain activist 's family said this week that Biden still has not called them . The White House did not immediately respond to HuffPost 's requests for comment . <p> The administration 's disapproval prompted the Israeli military to conduct a preliminary investigation into itself that concluded it was " highly likely " a soldier shot Eygi " indirectly and unintentionally " during a " violent riot . " Biden , who has provided unconditional military support to Israel , appeared to support the conclusion at the time , calling Eygi 's death " the result of a tragic error . " <p> But evidence and credible eyewitness accounts suggest an Israeli sniper intentionally shot Eygi in the head from an elevated position , about 30 minutes after the protest was over . She was in an olive grove more than 200 yards away from Israeli forces . <p> Advertisement <p> " I was dumbfounded -- was I really supposed to accept that an Israeli soldier accidentally shot her in the head from hundreds of feet away ? And that my own government found this explanation acceptable enough to forgo holding accountable the foreign military responsible ? " Hamid Ali , Eygi 's husband , wrote Saturday in The Hill . <p> At the press conference , Ali said he and Eygi had just celebrated their third anniversary when she was killed . <p> On Monday , Eygi 's family met with Secretary of State Antony Blinken to demand a U.S. investigation into her death . The secretary was attentive , the family said . But they said he essentially echoed the same vague rhetoric used in other cases of Israel killing Americans -- like activist Rachel Corrie , who was run over in 2003 by an Israeli bulldozer in Gaza ; journalist Shireen Abu Akleh , who was shot in the head in 2022 by an Israeli soldier in the West Bank ; or Omar As'ad , an elderly man who was killed that same year , after Israeli forces violently detained him while he was walking home from his friend 's house in the West Bank . <p> Advertisement <p> A vigil was held outside the White House in memory of Aysenur Ezgi Eygi , the American activist killed by Israeli forces in September during a peaceful protest in the West Bank . Eygi 's sister Ozden Bennett speaks at the vigil in Washington D.C. , United States on Dec. 16 , 2024 . <p> Celal Gunes/Anadolu via Getty Images <p> The family did not come away from the meeting optimistic about the U.S. pursuing justice for Eygi , sister Ozden Bennett said on Monday . Blinken told them the administration is still waiting for Israel 's wider investigation into the incident , though such probes rarely result in discipline . <p> State Department spokesman Matthew Miller echoed Blinken 's sentiment on Monday , telling reporters that the U.S. has taken Eygi 's case " extremely seriously " but that there will be no actionable change until the Israeli military releases its investigation into itself . On Tuesday , Palestinians sued the State Department for violating U.S. law by not suspending military aid , following cases like Eygi 's . <p> Advertisement <p> " Over 100 members of Congress have called for an independent investigation in Aysenur 's death , and I have also had numerous briefings with top State Department officials -- in person , on the phone , in groups , individually myself , advocating for Aysenur and her family , " Rep. Pramila Jayapal ( D ) , who represents Eygi 's hometown of Seattle , said on Tuesday . <p> " Let me say this very clearly so there is no question about where I stand : I am absolutely appalled with the lack of commitment on this case , the lack of attention from the State Department ... for the wellbeing and the safety of our own U.S. citizens , " she continued . " Nothing that I have heard from the State Department gives me any assurance at all that the killing of a United States citizen by the IDF is being treated with the urgency that it deserves . " <h> The Countdown To Trump Is On <p> On Jan. 20 , Donald Trump will reclaim the most powerful seat in our nation 's government . HuffPost will continue to fearlessly report on the new administration -- but we need your help . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give once or many more times , we appreciate your contribution to keeping our journalism free for all . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give just one more time or sign up again to contribute regularly , we appreciate you playing a part in keeping our journalism free for all . <p> The West Bank has experienced rising military and settler violence amid Israel 's now 14-month U.S.-funded bombardment of Gaza , an offensive much of the international community now describes as genocidal . Eygi was unapologetically pro-Palestinian , reportedly telling her professor at the University of Washington that she was going to the West Bank because " she needed to bear witness for the sake of her own humanity . " <p> Advertisement <p> " From what I 've learned about Aysenur , I know that she would not want us to demand justice for her alone , " Rep. Rashida Tlaib ( D-Mich. ) said on Tuesday . " So I stand here and honor her in saying : We will save lives , no matter faith or ethnicity. "
