<h> The actor now stars in the new movie " Young Werther , " while also cohosting " Sidebar : A Suits Watch Podcast " with Sarah Rafferty <p> While Patrick J. Adams has moved on from his lead role in Suits , now starring in projects like the recently released movie Young Werther , he 's revisiting Aaron Korsh 's popular TV show for his podcast " Sidebar : A Suits Watch Podcast " with former costar Sarah Rafferty . But while Adams has been watching Suits for the podcast , providing fans with behind-the-scenes details on some of their favourite episodes , the actor admitted he does n't like to watch his own work . <p> " I do n't watch my own stuff and so I had n't watched Young Wether until last night , " Adams shared with Yahoo Canada ahead of the release of the film . " I watched the first 45 minutes because I suddenly was like , I need to talk about this tomorrow . " <p> In Young Werther ( based the 18th-century novel " The Sorrows of Young Werther " ) Adams plays Albert who 's engaged to Charlotte ( Alison Pill ) , the woman that the title character , Werther ( Douglas Booth ) , has fallen in love with and is trying to win over . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Adams was drawn to project from the " charming " scripted written by Jos ? Avelino Gilles Corbett Louren ? o , who also directed the film . Louren ? o certainly put a strong emphasis on the dialogue for this movie to create a unique , appealing , and quirky tone for the whole film -- a departure from Adams playing Mike Ross in Suits . <p> " It scared me a little bit , to be honest . ... As an actor I was like , how is that going to play ? It was very heightened , very almost romantic language for all of us , " Adams said . " I remember asking Jos ? about it . At first I was like , how do we do this ? How are you wanting to play this heightened language ? Are we playing it down ? Are we playing it up ? I did n't quite understand the tone and how it was going to translate into a modern film . " <p> " As soon as I got to set and we were all speaking this very heightened language , everybody 's so good and so grounded , and really making compelling , interesting , very real choices , that the language just kind of flowed . And it was a real gift , because we do n't get to make films in 2024 where people talk quite like this . ... Jos ? is truly , I think , a visionary . He had already written this beautiful script and I 'd seen some of his other short films , and he has such a unique , beautiful point of view , but he 's so good at welcoming people 's input . ... The longer I do this , that is such a hard thing to do . " <h> ' I 'm not proud of the fact that it 's quite difficult for me to engage with the material ' <p> While Adams is warming up to the idea of watching his entire performance in Young Werther , the actor also highlighted that it 's been " healing " for him to watch Suits for his podcast . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " It 's really healing , to be honest , because it 's at a distance now , " Adams shared . " The problem with watching something is , ... if someone takes a picture of me right now and shows me the picture I 'm like , ' Oh god . ' I spin out . And I 'm like , ' That 's what I look like ? Oh no . ' You show me that exact same picture in three weeks , I 'm fine . You show me in six months and I 'm like , ' I look great . ' " <p> " I 'm at the point now with Suits that it 's so far behind that I can really watch it and totally appreciate the work and be so grateful for it , and really take it much easier on myself , and on the material . ... It 's not that I ca n't still be hard on certain moments , but it feels way dialled down . It 's something that I want to get better at , because I want to be able to celebrate Young Werther or any other film I do in the moment of it . So I 'm not proud of the fact that it 's quite difficult for me to engage with the material for a while , but it 's just tough for me . It 's hard . " <p> Adams also revealed that it was even difficult for him to watch his wedding video , now married to fellow actor Troian Bellisario , shortly after their wedding day . Not dissimilar to how it 's still difficult for him to finish watching Young Werther . <p> " My wedding , best day of my life by far to this day , maybe only the birth of my children , but it was an amazing day , weekend really . And there was this beautiful wedding video made of it that my friend did , " Adams explained . " I started watching the wedding video like the week after it was made and I could n't watch . It was so painful to see this thing that had been so magical , much like Werther . " <p> " It feels very uncomfortable to whittle it down to a video , like a wedding , or even just the end result of this film , and that makes me ... want to live in the joy of having made it longer before it turns into a product that 's out in the world . But the truth is , it 's part of our job , and that 's what we 're doing it for , ... and I promise I will finish it . " <h> Latest Stories <p> To mark the 10th anniversary of the " Mad Men " series finale , Jon Hamm will join the ATX TV Festival for the first time for a retrospective panel , Variety can exclusively announce . He will discuss his Emmy-winning performance of Don Draper , the series ' legacy and influence . Hamm portrayed the iconic protagonist for 92 episodes of the ... <p> Despite the case being dismissed in July , Alec Baldwin says the story surrounding the fatal " Rust " shooting has only begun . On the Dec. 16 episode of David Duchovny 's " Fail Better " podcast , Baldwin said " there is more to come " regarding what occurred during the Oct. 21 , 2021 , shooting on the set of the indie western " Rust , " ... <p> Megan Thee Stallion has filed for a restraining order against Tory Lanez , who she claims is harassing her from behind bars as he serves a 10-year sentence stemming from a July 2020 incident where he shot at her feet . In the substantial 194-page document , lawyers for the rapper ( aka Megan Pete ) describe Lanez ( aka Daystar ... <p> Tim Fehlbaum goes back to September 5 , 1972 , when the broadcast of the Olympics turned into live coverage of Munich Olympics massacre . The film stars Peter Sarsgaard , John Magaro , Ben Chaplin and Leonie Benesch . <p> Like a scene from a holiday movie , Toronto commuters on King Street paused to witness an unusual sight : a stopped streetcar , traffic halted , and strangers coming together to retrieve a cat trapped beneath the vehicle . <p> The University of Waterloo community is mourning after Palestinian twin sisters accepted into a PhD program at the southern Ontario school were killed this month in Gaza amid the Israel-Hamas war.The family of Sally and Dalia Ghazi Ibaid says the 26-year-olds had hopes of " an end to their and our suffering " and " realizing their dreams " after getting accepted into the Global Student Relief Initiative , which supports students from conflict zones , on Oct. 28 . " The focus now is on Gaza and the West <p> NEW YORK - On TikTok , one video casts a recent string of mysterious drone sightings in New Jersey as an " #invasion " " coming off the ocean " to target " sensitive infrastructure " like bridges and nuclear plants . On Facebook and X , posts say the sightings are evidence of an Iranian espionage operation or a U.S. military surveillance campaign . None of the claims are substantiated , and state and federal officials are struggling to calm a wave of online anxiety that has spread to multiple states . But w <p> Molly Burgess knew something had happened to her 11-year-old son as soon as she saw him.He had just arrived home from school and was visibly upset . His face was red and he burst into tears . She took him into her arms and realized he was very cold and wet . Mark had left school last Tuesday wearing only a T-shirt and his indoor shoes . His jacket , hat , winter boots and backpack were all left in his locker at Barnhill Memorial School , a middle school on Saint John 's west side . According to Environme <p> Emmy winner Rachel Brosnahan is front and center as the marvelous Lois Lane in a teaser video ( embedded below ) for the highly anticipated Superman movie teaser trailer , which will land Thursday at 9 am ET . Written/directed by DC Studios co-CEO James Gunn and due to swoop into theaters on July 11 , 2025 , Superman ( fka Superman : ... <p> With the holidays fast approaching , we have released our first look at who in Canada is likely to see a white Christmas , and who will most likely be as green as the trees that are decorated with furnishings <p> Canadian rapper Lanez , real name Daystar Peterson , shot Megan in both feet in July 2020 , and was sentenced to 10 years in prison in August last year . However , the 29-year-old star , whose full name is Megan Pete , has claimed that Lanez , 32 , continues to " harass , bully , and antagonize " her from behind bars through other people , and she 's now making moves to end the alleged harassment . " Mr. Peterson 's attempts to retraumatize and revictimize Ms. Pete recognize no limits - indeed , they continue even while he is behind bars . While Mr. Peterson distorts and recklessly disregards the truth in his desperate attempt to appeal his conviction , ... "
