<h> A terrified feline escaped its carrier and sought shelter between streetcar wheels , bringing Toronto commuters together in a dramatic rescue . <p> Torontonians band together to help rescue a cat trapped beneath a TTC vehicle in the city 's downtown core . ( Image courtesy : Storyful ) <p> Like a scene from a holiday movie , Toronto commuters on King Street paused to witness an unusual sight : a stopped streetcar , traffic halted , and strangers coming together to retrieve something from beneath the transit vehicle . <p> Witnesses say a small orange and white cat had bolted from a woman 's carrier and , terrified by the chaos of Canada 's largest city , huddled between two of the streetcar 's wheels , too frightened to budge . <p> What followed was a full-scale rescue mission that lasted over 20 minutes -- commuters , streetcar drivers , and even passersby braved the biting -10 ? C cold , working together to save the stranded feline , according to eyewitness reports . <p> In a now-viral TikTok video , Kapoor reveals a heartwarming scene : nearby shopkeepers carrying out hot food to warm the shivering rescuers , while others grabbed brooms to gently coax the terrified cat . Some even dashed to local pet stores , returning with treats in hopes of luring the little feline to safety . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> She reveals the breakthrough moment came from one rescuer 's quick thinking : they taped two brooms together , creating a makeshift tool that gently nudged the frightened cat out from under the stopped streetcar . <p> Strangers exchanged celebratory hugs , some even shedding tears -- a touching moment of humanity that could melt the coldest hearts in the middle of the bustling city . <p> The University of Waterloo community is mourning after Palestinian twin sisters accepted into a PhD program at the southern Ontario school were killed this month in Gaza amid the Israel-Hamas war.The family of Sally and Dalia Ghazi Ibaid says the 26-year-olds had hopes of " an end to their and our suffering " and " realizing their dreams " after getting accepted into the Global Student Relief Initiative , which supports students from conflict zones , on Oct. 28 . " The focus now is on Gaza and the West <p> Three U.K. citizens have been charged in the 2023 beating death of a beloved Owen Sound , Ont. , restaurant owner , in a case that had the community up in arms over lack of details released by police during their investigation and the time it was taking to make an arrest.Robert Evans , 24 , has been charged with manslaughter and Robert Busby Evans , 47 , and Barry Evans , 54 , have been charged with accessory after the fact in the Sharif Rahman case , Ontario Provincial Police ( OPP ) and city detectives sa <p> U.S. president-elect Donald Trump has been roasting Canada like a maple-glazed ham in recent days . But amid all the sizzle in his punchlines , some less-noticed messages might have more meat on them.The running gag about Canada as a 51st state is clearly generating a torrent of yuk-yuks on Fox News and indignation from his critics.But new statements from his transition team , his campaign , his press secretary and Capitol Hill Republicans could ultimately point to a more hopeful development for Can <p> President-elect Donald Trump has assembled the wealthiest presidential administration in modern history , with at least 13 billionaires set to take on government posts . In total , the combined net worth of the wealthiest members of his administration could surpass $460 billion , including Department of Government Efficiency co-head Elon Musk -- whose net worth of more than $400 billion exceeds the GDP of mid-sized countries . <p> Molly Burgess knew something had happened to her 11-year-old son as soon as she saw him.He had just arrived home from school and was visibly upset . His face was red and he burst into tears . She took him into her arms and realized he was very cold and wet . Mark had left school last Tuesday wearing only a T-shirt and his indoor shoes . His jacket , hat , winter boots and backpack were all left in his locker at Barnhill Memorial School , a middle school on Saint John 's west side . According to Environme <p> President-elect Trump went after Canada early Wednesday , asking why the U.S. provides its northern neighbor with subsidies and suggesting it should become the 51st state . " No one can answer why we subsidize Canada to the tune of over $100,000,000 a year ? Makes no sense ! " Trump wrote on Truth Social . " Many Canadians want Canada to become ... <p> Donald Trump appears to have debuted a new look -- and the reviews it 's getting on social media are less than glowing . Trump 's signature hairstyle -- golden , puffed-up , and tightly coiffed -- has been an iconic part of his brand since long before he stepped into the political arena . But a new video of the president-elect circulating on social media seems to show him with a totally different do . In a clip posted by one of Trump 's supporters at his golf club in Palm Beach , his mane appears to be more compa <p> The U.S. military is investigating whether Elon Musk complied with federal security-clearance rules following reports the SpaceX founder and chief executive used illegal drugs and maintained regular contact with Russia . Like many government employees , defense contractors generally hold confidential , secret , or top-secret security clearance giving them access to certain classified information . Musk holds top-secret clearance and is supposed to report certain information -- including drug use and for <p> As the threat of 25 per cent tariffs on all Canadian imports persist , U.S. president-elect Donald Trump insists Canada should be cracking down on fentanyl making its way across the border , into his country . " I said you have to close up your borders ... and drugs are pouring in , " Trump said recently.An Ontario border city mayor agrees with Trump -- saying the drug is " destroying our communities " on both sides of the border.Sarnia is across the St. Clair River from Port Huron , Mich.Mayor Mike Bradley
