<h> ' Bubble legislation ' back on the ballot : Two Toronto councillors explain what 's changed since May <p> Toronto police attempt to keep pro-Palestinian protestors away from a shopping plaza in a predominantly Jewish neighbourhood where pro-Israel rallies are held every Sunday at Bathurst and Sheppard . ( Jonathan Rothman photo ) <p> On Dec. 17 , Toronto 's city council will consider a report on a new package of measures aimed at better protecting vulnerable community spaces -- including schools , houses of worship , hospitals and community centres -- that have become targeted by hateful demonstrations in the last year . And while the report does n't specifically mention the Jewish community , the package does include $2.5 million to install protective traffic bollards and other street furniture to deter violent car-ramming attacks , which sources say was a specific request to help the downtown Miles Nadal Jewish Community Centre . <p> Since Oct. 7 , 2023 , Toronto police have responded to nearly 2,000 demonstrations related to the Israel-Gaza war , with more than 160 people charged for more than 400 hate crimes . Many Jewish leaders have expressed frustration that the authorities and the City have n't done more to stop these protests , where participants routinely harass and intimidate Jewish residents , business owners and passersby in Jewish neighbourhoods and elsewhere . Back in May , city council was asked to approach the province to bring in this so-called bubble legislation , which would establish a no-go zone around vulnerable spaces , but 13 councillors , including Mayor Olivia Chow , voted it down and instead , council adopted a motion to draw up an action framework , and that is what 's coming back to council on Dec 17 . <p> So what 's changed between May and today ? On The CJN Daily , host Ellin Bessner is joined by councillors James Pasternak , who has been prodding city staff to move , and Josh Matlow , who voted against bubble legislation back in May -- but will be on side this time , even though he still thinks the bylaw does n't solve the bigger problem . <p> What we talked about : <p> Read more on the proposed anti-hate measures and renewed effort to bring in so-called bubble bylaws at Toronto city council this coming week , in The CJN . <p> Learn more about the proposed safety measures by reading the city council documents yourself , on the toronto.ca website . <p> Why the new bubble legislation bylaw enacted by the City of Vaughan failed its first big test outside the BAYT synagogue on Dec. 9 , in The CJN . <h> Author <h> Support Our Mission : Make a Difference ! <p> The Canadian Jewish News is now a Registered Journalism Organization ( RJO ) as defined by the Canada Revenue Agency . To help support the valuable work we 're doing , we 're asking for individual monthly donations of at least $10 . In exchange , you 'll receive tax receipts , a thank-you gift of our quarterly magazine delivered to your door , and our gratitude for helping continue our mission . If you have any questions about the donating process , please write toemail protected . <h> Support the Media that Speaks to You <p> Jewish Canadians deserve more than social media rumours , adversarial action alerts , and reporting with biases that are often undisclosed . The Canadian Jewish News proudly offers independent national coverage on issues that impact our audience each day , as a conduit for conversations that bridge generations . <p> It 's an outlet you can count on -- but we 're also counting on you . <p> Please support Jewish journalism that 's creative , innovative , and dedicated to breaking new ground to serve your community , while building on media traditions of the past 65 years . As a Registered Journalism Organization , contributions of any size are eligible for a charitable tax receipt .
