<h> A new memoir by former B.C. NDP minister Selina Robinson describes betrayal by her own party <p> Ten months after she was abruptly dismissed from her cabinet position within the NDP-led British Columbia government due to an offhand remark that angered pro-Palestinian groups , Selina Robinson is sharing her side of the story in Truth Be Told , a new book coming out Dec. 18 in Vancouver . <p> During a B'nai Brith webinar on Jan. 30 featuring Jewish public officials in Canada , Robinson , who at the time was B.C. 's minister of higher education and future skills and the most prominent Jewish politician in the province , lamented the lack of knowledge many people have regarding the Middle East and said Israel was founded on a " crappy piece of land . " <p> Reaction to those words would , within days , spread rapidly across social media , sparking outrage and threats against her . Robinson immediately apologized to Premier David Eby for her " sloppy language " , which , she said , was not meant in any way to be hurtful . <p> Eby responded , " Happens to the best . Hang in there . " <p> For a time , Robinson had been assured that Eby " had her back . " However , within a few days , as the crisis reached a fever pitch with thousands signing petitions calling for her resignation and B.C. mosques threatening to ban NDP MLAs from their premises , the premier , as Robinson sees it , cowered to the mob . <p> Though the behaviour of the provincial government , in her view , was anything but righteous -- and the reaction from some sections of civil society straight-out antisemitic -- it was the indifference of her colleagues that remains the most upsetting to Robinson . <p> " It was only when I sat down to reflect and think about what happened , the most painful part was the silence , " she told The CJN . " It was not the haters . It was not people who were saying that Zionism was evil and therefore Jews are evil . <p> " It was my colleagues who I thought were progressive , who were not living up to their progressive values . People who say they are progressive but do not stand up for the Jewish community are not progressive . This was the realization that could only come with time . " <p> When he announced her firing , Eby said Robinson should step away because of " the depth of the work " she needed to do to repair the damage she had done . That statement , she said , echoed in her mind for a long time . <p> " This book is that work , " said Robinson , who also wrote the book because she felt Canadians should have a better understanding of who Jews are . <p> The book itself begins in May , at the end of the provincial legislative session , as Robinson felt she had been presented with enough time to consider what had taken place three months earlier . <p> " I needed the time to make sense of what happened to me at the moment when I was being attacked by the haters , by the antisemites and the people who think they are representing those suffering in Gaza , when really all they are doing is hurting Jews in their community , " she said . <p> " At that time , I remember feeling , ' You do not understand . I need to explain my side to you . ' My intent was never to hurt anybody , and I am being accused of all these terrible things that do not reflect who I am . Then to have my premier reflect their perspective was so hurtful -- that he would believe that I would intentionally go out to hurt people like that in some way and not recognize what was actually happening . " <p> Perhaps the most stinging rebuke to Eby comes before the book begins . Robinson dedicates her work to former B.C. premier John Horgan , who died Nov. 12 , and whom she refers to as " a friend , a leader and a mensch who understood and lived tikkun olam -- making the world a better place . " <p> Robinson said she is confident that Eby 's predecessor would have handled the issue differently . As the provincial political crisis was unfolding in February , Horgan , then serving as Canada 's ambassador to Germany , called Robinson from Berlin . <p> " John was very hurt for me . He thought it was wrong . What was interesting about that phone call was that he had just gotten back from Dachau . He said , ' What is happening is horrifying . I am horrified by what is happening to the Jewish community , ' " said Robinson who served at various points as Horgan 's minister of municipal affairs and housing , citizens ' services , and finance . <p> " When I spoke to John , he said , ' You apologized . It is time to move on . ' That 's not the position that David Eby took . And I did tell David that this is the wrong decision . " <p> Robinson -- who , while serving in the NDP caucus , was known as the " Jew in the Crew " -- has a cherished photograph of Horgan serving apples and honey to colleagues during a Rosh Hashanah event . <p> In the book , Robinson makes it clear that she sees herself as a progressive Jew , a Zionist and a believer in a two-state solution , in which Palestinians and Israelis can find self-determination , peace and fulfillment . <p> " I disagree with the current Israeli government 's policies and practices on many issues , including many of their actions in Gaza and the West Bank , " she writes . " I also disagree with the Palestinian leaders in the West Bank and the terrorist regimes in the Gaza Strip and elsewhere who seek to destroy Israel at the cost of the well-being of more Palestinian generations . <p> " Palestinians and Israelis both have the right to a homeland , to security and to live without fear . Both peoples need leaders with a vision for coexistence and peace . " <p> In this country , Robinson said she finds optimism in the knowledge that the vast majority of Canadians are supportive of the Jewish community and the State of Israel . <p> " We need to have people feel comfortable pushing back against hatred , " she said . <p> Jewish readers of the book , Robinson hopes , can derive comfort in the realization that they are not alone . <p> " We have all been in this together and we have to stick together and support each other . We need to give each other strength , " she said . " I am going to fight for the pluralistic Canada that gave my family refuge . I still believe that Jewish values are NDP values , but the NDP has turned on Jews . " <p> Well before the controversy erupted , Robinson had planned to retire after the provincial elections that were held in October . Though she presently does not know how it will take shape , she intends to continue fighting for the progressive values in which she strongly believes . <p> All profits from sales of Truth Be Told will go to advance coexistence between Israelis and Palestinians and fight antisemitism in Canada . <h> Author <h> Support Our Mission : Make a Difference ! <p> The Canadian Jewish News is now a Registered Journalism Organization ( RJO ) as defined by the Canada Revenue Agency . To help support the valuable work we 're doing , we 're asking for individual monthly donations of at least $10 . In exchange , you 'll receive tax receipts , a thank-you gift of our quarterly magazine delivered to your door , and our gratitude for helping continue our mission . If you have any questions about the donating process , please write toemail protected . <h> Support the Media that Speaks to You <p> Jewish Canadians deserve more than social media rumours , adversarial action alerts , and reporting with biases that are often undisclosed . The Canadian Jewish News proudly offers independent national coverage on issues that impact our audience each day , as a conduit for conversations that bridge generations . <p> It 's an outlet you can count on -- but we 're also counting on you . <p> Please support Jewish journalism that 's creative , innovative , and dedicated to breaking new ground to serve your community , while building on media traditions of the past 65 years . As a Registered Journalism Organization , contributions of any size are eligible for a charitable tax receipt .
