<p> It was n't until midnight that the up-and-coming acts , given the chance to shine on the Ghetto Splash platform , started taking the stage at the Waterhouse Mini Stadium in Drewsland . This marked the start of the annual , free event , which usually runs from 10 p.m. until 6 a.m. the following day . However , it was brought to a close well before 5 o'clock on Wednesday morning when the police calmly announced it was time to go home , as it was a workday . <p> Some patrons were not happy campers , with one disgruntled man even shouting to The Gleaner team , " Write the truth Gleaner ! A nuh police nutten , a true dem no have no more artiste roun ' dere fi perform ! " <p> The truth is that many of the big-name acts advertised on the poster were no-shows , including Beenie Man , Skeng , Luciano , Aidonia , Govana , Tarrus Riley , D'Angel , Pablo YG , Jesse Royal , Jahshii , and Tommy Lee . In contrast , by 4 a.m. last year , artistes such as Bounty Killer , Cham , Jahshii , Beenie Man , and D'Angel had already performed , and there was still much more to come . Promoter Patrick Roberts could not be reached for a comment . <p> The artistes who showed up represented well . It was an interesting dynamics to see the various crews of young acts enter the venue , walking the walk of the famous and dominating their own little world backstage , each set trying to look distinctive , but in the end , all looking like clones . <p> Veteran deejay Major Mackerel shared that it was him , Macka Diamond and Sita who " tek di show " . Sita was the first of the up-and-coming acts to get a big response . At 1:02 a.m. the lyrical diva unleashed the ' S ' song in which every word starts with the letter S. It was quite a feat , and , of course , Sita , who was sizzling hot , was representing for " all the gal dem with the tight punash " -- whatever that means . <h> Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox <p> At 2:24 a.m . Macka Diamond , who told the crowd that she is " the hottest big woman inna dancehall " ran out with her chant of Money O and asked ' Wha oonu waan hear ? " . <p> The answer : " Whole heap a passa passa . " That was her cue to go right into the song with Derrick , What Can Go So . It was very well received and Macka told The Gleaner that she was " more than satisfied " . <p> As to Major Mackerel , the veteran deejay who is walking on his prosthetic leg minus the crutches , was a hard act to follow , with his " Ni ni ni ni " tune mashing up the place . <p> Singer George Nooks did a tight , 15-minute set , thrilling with Tenement Yard , Tribal War , My Brethren and Forty Leg Dread . He closed with his evergreen hit , God is Standing By and Ride Out Your Storm , for which he had the Ghetto Splash crowd as his personal choir . <p> Duane Stephenson 's performance was a " pull upppp " segment as he skilfully delivered Real Ghetto Pain , Cottage in Negril , and August Town . <p> Notable among the early acts were Samurai , who was there to " show the positives of dancehall " ; the commanding 1Konnection who made an impact with the original song , Wish you were here ; and the Cayman-based Glamaton who scored with Woman Want Money . <p> I-Stitch connected solidly with his fans , the Ahbagada Nation fans , and Beekie Bailey showed that he has not lost any of his zest . After saluting the crowd , he called up Nitty Kutchie , and General B who brought back memories of the Monster Shack and Scare Dem Crew days . <p> Mr Easy was all about ' 90s dancehall with Murder on Dave Kelly 's big bad Bruk Out riddim and Drive me Crazy , both of which went over well . Dancer Luggo Luggo made a surprising appearance on stage during Razor B 's set and Kash , who took time to " big up mi real dawgs dem " spoke the same musical language of most of the crowd . <p> It was NHance and his crew who brought the curtains down in fine-style , having taken the baton from 10Tik and Renee 6:30 . NHance , who is the son of Gaza Sheba , is one of the young acts making strides in dancehall . Ghetto Splash was celebrating its 35th anniversary and its 10th staging at the Waterhouse Mini Stadium .
