<p> On the longest night of the year , a procession of wicked creatures fiercely takes over the horizon on their galloping ghost horses . Hooves smash the midnight sky , echoing through the empty streets . Families huddle together in candle-lit rooms as the smell of a crackling Yule log lingers in the air . There are lessons to learn in these moments of quiet and togetherness . The figures in the sky are spirits from another realm , harbingers of death and destruction to come . <p> This is the Wild Hunt -- an ancient Yuletide legend that has captured the minds of poets , academics , and folklorists for centuries . Interpretations of the story are varied . Some say it is led by Odin , the Norse god , along with his ghost riders , to capture the souls of those who cause harm . Others say it is an army of women blessing good homes or cursing the cruel and greedy . Legendary folklorist Jacob Grimm modified the folk tale in the 1835 book , Deutsche Mythologie , taking his own liberties and twisting it to suit his personal beliefs . According to folklore historian Ronald Hutton , Grimm manufactured his own telling of the Wild Hunt legend , veering from disjointed folk stories common in Pagan societies , towards themes of racial superiority , nationalism , and militarism . <p> Upon reading about the wild hunt , I found myself asking -- what moments of teaching do we have in our modern era ? When politicians attack teachers and ban books and disregard the desire to change as " too radical " ? The pain and discomfort that we experience in our day-to-day lives have been normalized , but a pause and some contemplation over this year 's solstice could help us emerge from the darkness differently . We have been severed from our connection to the planet and its lifeways , with capitalism and imperialism keeping us distracted and divided . Taking a moment to pause gives us an opportunity to rethread that connection . <h> Disconnection <p> Capitalism is a deeply individualistic system that has normalized disconnection and apathy toward suffering . We can see this hyperindividualism illustrated all times of the year , but especially now with the contradictions of Canadian Christmas . Pop culture and movies brand the holiday season as a time of gift-giving , of counting blessings , and of gratitude for family . And yet , these customs do n't apply to everyone . Christmas hampers are gathered for those " in need " , but for the rest of the year those people are nothing more than a nuisance -- or the test subjects of forced institutionalization and psychiatric incarceration . Politicians smile in photo ops with their canned goods to deliver to the poor but then go on to advocate for policies that criminalize poverty . Would the ghost riders of the wild hunt give this hypocrisy a pass ? <p> Blustery , dangerous and deadly cold , Canada does not have a solution for its people on the streets , despite considering itself a nation of tolerance . In reality , people are turned away from overflowing shelters . Even finding a space to offer refuge is a struggle for extreme weather shelters , not because there is a shortage of space but because neighbouring residents often oppose it . In 2023 , the Cowichan Valley community centre on Vancouver Island used one of its rooms as an emergency shelter from the cold , but parents whose children play sports in the nearby arena objected . In a moral panic , the local hockey association and others argued their reasons for opposing the shelter . The potential for death and human suffering mattered less than their discomfort in witnessing the depths of poverty caused by late-stage capitalism . <p> Cold is extremely dangerous and people die without shelter , but the state does nothing meaningful to solve it . In 2023 , a story broke in the CBC that revealed how common frostbite and amputation is among people living on the street in the cold winter months , with a dramatic spike in amputations in 2021 and 2022 . Being in community and camping together reduces the risk of death and violent assaults for unhoused people , especially in winter . The Canadian Human Rights Commission released a report in February 2024 explaining that encampments are a way for unhoused people to " claim their human rights and meet their most basic needs . " Knowing this , police still obey orders to violently displace unhoused people by conducting inhumane raids and brutal street sweeps on encampments . Breaking up encampments , disposing of personal items and tents , and relocating people perpetuates trauma among already marginalized and stigmatized communities , and can even lead to death . Violent displacement does not solve poverty . It does not solve homelessness . <p> This cruelty is avoidable , if only political will existed . Where is the political will ? Any progress made toward alleviating poverty has been violently incremental , causing what Friedrich Engels referred to as social murder . In the Yuletide wild hunt , murderers ' souls would be swept up as the ultimate form of cosmic justice . In our world , it seems as though justice never comes . <h> Polarization <p> Though harmful and violent dogma should be challenged and critiqued , we should also realize that disputes among us -- the working class -- only benefit fascist politicians and billionaires . <p> While we are busy battling over ideology ( sometimes , with good reason ) , the ultra-rich keep getting richer and benefitting from the resurgence of neo-fascism , brought in by theatrical and deceitful politicians . Authoritarian figures like Donald Trump , Elon Musk , John Rustad , and Pierre Poilievre use fascist tactics like undermining and defunding education , attacking the free press , encouraging ultranationalism , and scapegoating immigrants and Indigenous peoples , to keep their voter base in a constant mode of distrust and division . This keeps the power balance working in their favour . This is n't the first time in human history where oligarchs thought they could rule society in whatever way they pleased . In the medieval period , there would have been communal uprisings and revolts against this type of oppression . <p> Of course , it 's not just far-right politicians who are to blame for the current state of affairs . Liberal-leaning politicians like Justin Trudeau and Jagmeet Singh use progressive language and co-opting of collectivist values to hide their pro-corporate interests that only benefit the elite . Politicians who do advocate for causes that challenge the social hierarchy have limited power and influence in the colonial establishment , and can even find themselves kicked out of caucus if they express views that do not align with the party leadership , as was the case for MPP Sara Jama who spoke out against Israeli violence in Gaza . <p> No , the Liberals wo n't make us eat bugs as the Conservative Party claims ; they do not care what we eat , or if we eat at all . Food insecurity in Canada has become so severe that the 18th century disease scurvy has re-emerged . Canada 's political parties are sending us messages about how bad the future will be unless we cast our vote for them , but things are bad enough now . No party is offering the real , transformative solutions we need to navigate the polycrises that are threatening our survival as a species . <p> We can not succumb to their identity politicking any longer . <p> The climate crisis is perhaps the most existential manifestation of political abandonment . Scientists have known for decades that pollution from capitalist industry , the military industrial complex , and unfettered consumerism has a devastating warming effect on our planet that is leading to biodiversity collapse . And yet they have done nothing to adequately stop the problem . As our animal kin and the planet warn us of the coming ecological disasters , the billionaire class continues to pollute and destroy the earth as they see fit . But one day perhaps , they will understand that climate change will transcend class borders . <h> Our wild hunt is social uprising <p> The cruelty and barbarism that the world is experiencing -- from wars and genocides to the class struggle at home in Canada -- has unleashed something that oligarchs perhaps did not intend : a deep rage at the machine , the whispers of class consciousness . In 2024 , students around the world occupied universities to demand divestment from the Israeli apartheid machine . It was no business as usual while Palestinians are slaughtered in Gaza and while our nations fund ecocide , scholasticide , and genocide . <p> On December 5 , Amnesty International concluded Israel 's actions in Gaza as a genocide . Amnesty International asks the questions we should all be asking : what have our political leaders done ? What are the worldly institutions doing to end this genocide and hold its inflictors accountable ? We must demand justice . <p> In the words of Amnesty International 's secretary general Agnes Callamard , " No war criminal should ever be allowed to walk free , undisturbed . Fearless . Let 's put all our instruments into action . " <p> National tribunals , international criminal court , universal jurisdiction . The wild hunt is coming . <p> There are other forms of resistance brewing , too . All across the country , Canada 's United Postal Workers ( CUPW ) are fighting the ' gigification ' of essential public services , writes striking letter carrier , Kieran Delamont . Though the media and Canada Post attempt to paint the strike as " greedy " , it is more than just a dispute over wages -- it is workers taking a principled stand against the oppression of the capitalist system that insists on the ongoing erosion of workers ' rights . CUPW is fighting for job security , rather than the precarious gig economy that prioritizes profits for CEOs over the wellbeing and sustainability of workers . The Labour Minister and the Canadian Industrial Relations Board has ordered postal workers to return to work without meeting the demands of the union , which it describes in a recent statement as the right to " fight for fair wages , safe working conditions and to retire with dignity . " <p> Do not listen to the billionaires and ideologues who seek to divide : it should not be " woke " to stand in solidarity , to care for each other , to want our relatives to live long and dignified lives , to reconnect with the earth . It should not be " radical " to reclaim what we are owed : profits from the products we produce , safe and affordable housing , access to healthy outdoor spaces , free public transportation that can take us anywhere , free education , free baby formula and other essential items , and the ability to thrive in this world that we have built . Us , the workers -- not Justin Trudeau of the Leaurentian elite ; not Pierre Poilievre , the career politician . <p> Us -- the plumbers , the aestheticians , the teachers , the doctors , the nurses , the electricians , the factory workers , the caregivers , the janitors , the community leaders , the mental health workers , the writers , the knowledge-keepers . <p> This winter solstice is the darkness before a period of renewal . May we show the oligarchs that we will one day soon lead our own wild hunt , to restore our connection with the planet and with each other . <p> Support rabble today ! <p> We 're so glad you stopped by ! Thanks for consuming rabble content this year . <p> rabble.ca is 100% reader and donor funded , so as an avid reader of our content , we hope you will consider gifting rabble with a donation during our summer fundraiser today . <p> Nick Seebruch , editor <p> Whether it be a one-time donation or a small monthly contribution , your support is critical to keep rabble writers producing the work you 've come to rely on as a part of a healthy media diet . <h> Erin Blondeau <p> Erin Blondeau ( she/her ) is a M ? t is mom living on the west coast of so-called British Columbia on unceded Quw'utsun territory . Her paternal family comes from the Red River Settlements and the Qu'Appelle ... More by Erin Blondeau
