<h> Sections <p> Smoke rises from the scene of an Israeli airstrike on the Haziz power station in southern Sanaa , Yemen , Thursday , Dec. 19 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Osamah Abdulrahman ) <p> Share <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates - <p> A series of intense Israeli airstrikes shook Yemen 's rebel-held capital and a port city early Thursday and killed at least nine people , officials said , shortly after a Houthi missile targeted central Israel . <p> Thursday 's strikes risk further escalating conflict with the Iranian-backed Houthis , whose attacks on the Red Sea corridor have drastically impacted global shipping . The rebels have so far avoided the same level of intense military strikes that have targeted Palestinian militant group Hamas and Lebanon 's Hezbollah , fellow members of Tehran 's self-described " Axis of Resistance . " <p> Israel 's military said that it conducted two waves of strikes in a preplanned operation that began early Thursday and involved 14 fighter jets . The military said the first wave of strikes targeted Houthi infrastructure at the ports of Hodeida , Salif and the Ras Isa oil terminal on the Red Sea . <p> Then , in a second wave of strikes , the military said its fighter jets targeted Houthi energy infrastructure in Sanaa . <p> The Houthi-controlled satellite channel al-Masirah said that some of the strikes targeted power stations in the capital , posting videos of flames engulfing one structure , as civil defense workers doused it in water , trying to extinguish the fire . <p> The strikes on the two power plants will worsen the electricity crisis faced by Sanaa , where those who can afford it run gas generators or get power from private providers because of the city 's long-failing infrastructure . <p> " Approximately one quarter of Sanaa -- particularly shops , stores and commercial facilities -- will face immediate and severe disruptions , " said Mohammed al-Basha , a Yemen analyst . " In a city already staggering under a profound economic crisis , 2025 is set to be exceptionally challenging . " <p> The al-Masirah channel , citing its correspondent in the port city of Hodeida , said that at least seven people had been killed at Salif , while another two had been killed at the Ras Isa oil terminal . Others suffered wounds at the Hodeida port as well , it said . <p> An Israeli military statement offered no damage assessment . <p> Rear Adm . Daniel Hagari , an Israeli military spokesman , said the strikes hit energy and port infrastructure , which he alleged the rebels " have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military action . " <p> " I suggest the leaders of the Houthis to see , to understand and remember : Whoever raises a hand against the state of Israel , his hand will be cut off , whoever harms us -- will be harmed sevenfold , " Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said . <p> Rebel-held Hodeida , about 145 kilometers ( 90 miles ) southwest of Sanaa , has been key for food shipments into Yemen as its decade-long war has gone on . There 's also longstanding suspicion that weapons from Iran have been transferred through the port . <p> The strikes happened just after Israel 's military said that its air force intercepted a missile launched from Yemen before it entered the country 's territory . The waves of strikes on Yemen early Thursday were n't a direct response to the missile hit , said a military official , but rather a preplanned response to months of Houthi aggression . Israel 's fighter jets were already in the air when the missile was launched . <p> " Rocket and missile sirens were sounded following the possibility of falling debris from the interception , " the Israeli military said . Sirens sounded near Tel Aviv and the surrounding areas , and a large explosion was heard overhead at the time . <p> Following an investigation , the military said that the missile 's warhead fell on a school building in Ramat Gan , a suburb of Tel Aviv . The warhead exploded , collapsing the building , the military said . <p> The military official said that the Houthis have fired more than 200 missiles and UAVs , or unmanned aerial vehicles , at Israel since Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Brig . Gen. Yahya Saree , a Houthi military spokesman , claimed the attack hours later in a prerecorded video statement , saying the rebels fired two of its " Palestine " ballistic missiles at Israel . <p> Israel previously struck Hodeida and its oil infrastructure in July after a Houthi drone attack killed one person and wounded 10 in Tel Aviv . In September , Israel struck Hodeida again , killing at least four people after a rebel missile targeted Israel 's Ben Gurion airport as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was arriving back to the country . <p> American forces have also launched a series of strikes on the Houthis over nearly a year because of Houthi attacks on shipping in the Red Sea corridor . On Monday , the U.S. military 's Central Command said that it hit " a key command-and-control facility " operated by the Houthis in Sanaa , later identified as the al-Ardi complex once home to the government 's Defense Ministry . <p> But Israel appears to have carried out Thursday 's strikes alone . A U.S. military official , speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the attacks , said that Washington had no part in them . While the U.S. has carried out strikes on the Houthis in the past , it 's also balancing the desires of Saudi Arabia to reach a permanent ceasefire in its stalemated war with the rebels . <p> The Houthis have targeted about 100 merchant vessels with missiles and drones since the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip started in October 2023 after Hamas ' surprise attack on Israel that killed 1,200 people and saw 250 others taken hostage . <p> Israel 's grinding offensive in Gaza has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , local health officials say . The tally does n't distinguish between combatants and civilians . <p> The Houthis have seized one vessel and sunk two in a campaign that has also killed four sailors . Other missiles and drones have either been intercepted by separate U.S.- and European-led coalitions in the Red Sea or failed to reach their targets , which have also included Western military vessels . <p> The rebels maintain that they target ships linked to Israel , the U.S. or the United Kingdom to force an end to Israel 's campaign against Hamas in Gaza . However , many of the ships attacked have little or no connection to the conflict , including some bound for Iran . <p> The Houthis have battled the Saudi-led coalition in the wider Yemen war , which has killed more than 150,000 people , including civilians . The conflict also has created one of the world 's worst humanitarian disasters that 's believed to have killed tens of thousands more . <p> But the Houthis are still standing even as Israel 's campaign against Hamas and Hezbollah has decimated those militant groups . Meanwhile , Israel and Iran have exchanged direct fire while the government of Syria , an enemy of Israel since its founding in 1948 , collapsed in the face of a rebel advance as the region 's wars have upended Iran 's network of allied proxy groups . <h> CTVNews.ca Top Stories <p> A W5 investigation showed how convicted criminals ordered to pay restitution struggled to do so , and how just $7 million of more than $250 million had been claimed . While many provinces struggle to keep track , Saskatchewan is leading the way in making sure victims get their money . <p> A police officer who died after having a suspected medical episode on duty was executing a search warrant in connection with an ongoing robbery investigation in North York , Toronto police confirmed Thursday . <p> A French court found all 51 defendants guilty on Thursday in a mass rape case including Dominique Pelicot , who repeatedly drugged his then wife , Gisele , and allowed dozens of strangers into the family home to rape her . <p> A police officer who died after having a suspected medical episode on duty was executing a search warrant in connection with an ongoing robbery investigation in North York , Toronto police confirmed Thursday . <p> The Ottawa Police Service ( OPS ) says it is committed to repairing the " fractured relationships " it has with the local Somali community in the wake of the inquest into the 2016 death of Abdirahman Abdi . <p> A W5 investigation showed how convicted criminals ordered to pay restitution struggled to do so , and how just $7 million of more than $250 million had been claimed . While many provinces struggle to keep track , Saskatchewan is leading the way in making sure victims get their money . <p> A French court found all 51 defendants guilty on Thursday in a mass rape case including Dominique Pelicot , who repeatedly drugged his then wife , Gisele , and allowed dozens of strangers into the family home to rape her . <p> A senior White House official on Thursday said nuclear-armed Pakistan is developing long-range ballistic missile capabilities that eventually could allow it to strike targets well beyond South Asia , making it an " emerging threat " to the United States . <p> Rubi Patricia Vergara and Erin Michelle West were killed in a Monday morning shooting at the school in Madison , Wisconsin , the Dane County Medical Examiner 's Office said . Here 's what we know about the victims . <p> European Union leaders insisted on Thursday that no decisions can be taken about the future of war-ravaged Ukraine without its consent -- or behind the backs of its partners in Europe , barely a month before President-elect Donald Trump takes office . <p> The Liberal government was thrown into disarray this week when Chrystia Freeland stepped down from cabinet as finance minister , reviving calls for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to step down or call an election . <p> The federal justice minister says a new commission that will review potential wrongful convictions will help racialized and Indigenous Peoples seek justice who are overrepresented in the criminal justice system . <p> A yearlong trial of 493 adults , with an average age of 53 , found vagus nerve stimulation therapy led to improvement in participants ' depressive symptoms , ability to complete daily tasks and quality of life . <p> The press freedom group Reporters Without Borders is urging Apple to remove its newly introduced artificial intelligence feature that summarizes news stories after it produced a false headline from the BBC . <p> Dozens of massive data centres humming at the outskirts of Dublin are consuming more electricity than all of the urban homes in Ireland and starting to wear out the warm welcome that brought them here . <p> DC Studios debuted the first trailer for its feature film " Superman " on Thursday . Directed by James Gunn , the Man of Steel is shown bloodied by a crash landing at the beginning of the teaser before he 's rescued by his super-cute superpup , Krypto . <p> Conan O'Brien is remembering his recently deceased parents . In an interview with the Boston Globe , the former late night television host talked about his mother , Ruth Reardon O'Brien , who died last Thursday , and Dr. Thomas F. O'Brien , who preceded his wife in death three days earlier . <p> Jenson Brooksby tugged at the right shoulder of his red T-shirt and fiddled with some strands of his dirty blond hair as he spoke to The Associated Press about what he 'd like the world -- the tennis world , yes , but also everyone else -- to know about him . <p> U.S. auto safety regulators have backed away from seeking a giant recall of nearly 50 million air bag inflators and will investigate further after the auto industry raised questions about whether all of the inflators are defective . <p> British Columbia 's police oversight agency is investigating the death of a Central Saanich police sergeant who had been charged with sexual assault and breach of trust hours before he was found dead on Wednesday . <p> A former youth support worker has been convicted of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old boy in B.C. government care -- an incident that followed months of secret hangouts and shirtless massages that were in clear violation of his employer 's policies . <p> A police officer who died after having a suspected medical episode on duty was executing a search warrant in connection with an ongoing robbery investigation in North York , Toronto police confirmed Thursday . <p> Alberta Premier Danielle Smith says the province has heard back from Canada 's chief actuary on its bid to leave the Canada Pension Plan but says there 's no estimate on how much the province should get . <p> Three former hospital employees have been charged following investigations into unrelated alleged breach of patient privacy incidents that took place over the course of last year in different parts of the province , according to the Ontario Provincial Police ( OPP ) . <p> A developing storm moving northward just off the U.S. eastern seaboard looks likely to bring a heavy early winter snowfall to much of Nova Scotia , Prince Edward Island , and the southeastern corner of New Brunswick . <p> British Columbia 's police oversight agency is investigating the death of a Central Saanich police sergeant who had been charged with sexual assault and breach of trust hours before he was found dead on Wednesday . <p> A former youth support worker has been convicted of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old boy in B.C. government care -- an incident that followed months of secret hangouts and shirtless massages that were in clear violation of his employer 's policies . <p> Energy observers in Newfoundland and Labrador are urging the provincial government to take a sober second look at a massive tentative deal announced last week with Quebec that promises to deliver hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue to the Atlantic province .
