<p> Officers from Toronto Police Service 's 32 Division responded to reports of gunfire to discover six bullet holes in the building 's exterior . No one was inside the school at the time and no injuries were reported . <p> " It 's incredibly unfortunate that I stand here to discuss yet another shooting at this school , " Supt. Paul MacIntyre of the Organized Crime Enforcement Unit said during a press conference outside the school Friday morning . <p> Police have made progress in previous incidents at the school , MacIntyre said , stating that two people , a man and a youth , were arrested in connection with the October shooting , and a firearm was recovered . Investigators are now working to determine whether the latest attack is connected to those earlier cases . <p> " We 've solved the second case , and the same teams are now working on this investigation , " he said . " With just a few days before Hanukkah , we know how deeply disturbing this is to the Jewish community . We will leave no stone unturned . " <p> Insp . Roger Desrochers of the Hate Crime Unit said hate crimes require " careful investigation " to determine whether they meet the threshold for charges under the Criminal Code . <p> " These matters are challenging . Not all offensive actions meet the threshold for criminal charges , and each case must be weighed carefully , " Desrochers said during the presser on Friday afternoon . <p> Rabbi Yaakov Vidal , principal of the school , said it was challenging to inform parents about the third shooting this year . <p> " It 's very , very difficult . It 's very , very hard to be woken up in the middle of the night with such news -- and it 's now the third time , " Rabbi Vidal said at a press conference outside the school . <p> Rabbi Yaacov Vidal , principal of Bais Chaya Mushka , School , speaking to reporters in Toronto after the school was shot at overnight on Dec. 20 , 2024 . ( Credit : Lila Sarick ) <p> " We were not sure if we were able to have school here , due to the police investigation , then we were told it was possible to have school here . I was actually looking for a different location ... Parents are very , very frustrated , very afraid to send their kids to school . I am aware of a few that did not send their kids to school today . We hope they once again feel safe to do so every single day , as they deserve . <p> The school had full-time security during the day when students were present , but overnight security was too expensive , Rabbi Vidal said . " We may have to do this at this point . We 'll have to see what our next step is . " <p> The recent violence has raised questions about police efforts to protect Jewish institutions . MacIntyre said police have ramped up patrols in recent months under initiatives like Project Resolute but emphasized that officers are also working to balance broader community safety concerns . <p> When asked whether Jewish institutions should consider armed private security , MacIntyre said he does not support the idea , adding , " We are here to support the community and will continue providing all available resources to ensure their safety . " <p> Parents picking up their daughters at school expressed both their concern and their determination as the school dealt with a third shooting . <p> One mother was on the verge of tears as she discussed her decision to send her child to school this morning . <p> " I do n't even know what to think anymore . It 's the third time . The cops are here , so I feel safe today , but the rest of the time I do n't feel safe , " she said . " These are little girls they 're trying to scare . These idiots should be thrown in jail , but they ca n't seem to catch them . " <p> Her daughter , who suffers from anxiety now , made a grim joke about how easy it is to attack her school , the mother said . " This is my eight year old thinking this . She does n't watch violent things . " <p> Rabbi Yosef Hecht , a Chabad rabbi in Aurora , said he dropped off his two daughters at school this morning " with a very heavy heart , " especially since it was the third shooting . <p> " Did they catch the people ? Do they know who 's behind this ? Is it larger than what they are really telling us , is there something larger that we 're not aware of yet ? " he asked . <p> But despite his concerns , he did n't hesitate to send his children to school . " I felt the school did a good job repairing it temporarily . It shows that , no matter what , we are going to be resolute , strong , and this will just make us stronger and more proud . " <p> Local leaders call for action <p> At a press conference earlier in the day , politicians and leaders of the Jewish community were on hand to condemn the shooting and press all levels of government for more action . <p> The shooting came two days after a Montreal synagogue was firebombed for the second time since Oct. 7 , 2023 , the date of the Hamas terrorist attacks on Israel and the start of the war in Gaza . <p> " There are common-sense things that our leaders can do to deal with this problem right away . We need funding for police to get the job done and we need to put a stop to the extremism in our streets that 's inciting this violence . The time for our leaders to speak , to tweet , is over . Now it 's time for them to take action , " said Noah Shack , interim president of the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs . <p> " The fact is , this is n't an isolated activity , whether it 's a synagogue being firebombed in Montreal or this school here that continues to suffer from gunfire in an effort to intimidate the girls that are here . There should be no daylight between the mayor of this city , the police of this city and the community that is facing this kind of threat day in and day out , " Shack said . <p> City councillor James Pasternak said Toronto police are stretched thin and need support from provincial police forces and the RCMP , and called for closer ties between elected officials and police forces . <p> " The police act forbids elected officials from directing police operations but the police act does n't stop us from nuance . We have to back up our police services , give them the political will to stop these roving mobs ... that are inciting some of the violence that we are seeing in this neighbourhood and across the land , " he said . <p> Toronto Mayor Olivia Chow , who said in a statement that the shooting was " unacceptable , " was criticized by some Jewish community leaders for her weak stance on the antisemitism that has escalated in the city . <p> " Mayor Olivia Chow 's continued platitudes in response to antisemitic hate in Toronto ring hollow in the face of her permissive approach to this growing problem , " B'nai Brith Canada stated on social media . <p> " She has enabled an environment where such acts are allowed to flourish . Banal condemnations without concrete actions leave the Jewish community vulnerable and unsafe . " <p> Enough is enough . Antisemitism and antisemitic attacks have no place in Toronto . <p> The latest shooting at the Bais Chaya Mushka Elementary School is unacceptable . Once again students , families , and neighbours are waking up to safety concerns . <p> Michael Levitt , a former Liberal MP and now the president of the Friends of Simon Wiesenthal Center , who attended the press conference , also laid responsibility on Chow . <p> " We have not seen the mayor of the city draw a line through this type of activity and come out and be strong enough , " he said . " Sure , when shots are fired , but what about when all the other incidents have gone on ? We need our mayor take a stand with the Jewish community and make it clear that keeping the Jewish community safe is a priority . " <p> MP Ya'ara Saks appeared at the press conference to expressed her support for the Jewish community . She pushed back on the suggestion that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had not taken the issue seriously enough , pointing to increased funding for federal infrastructure grants , which can now be used for a wider variety of security resources . <p> This afternoon , the federal government also announced that a second national summit on antisemitism would be convened in February . <h> Authors <p> Mitch is The CJN 's campus and education reporter based in Toronto , Ont . He has a passion for investigative research , long-form feature writing and digital journalism . His book , Home Safe , was published by Dundurn Press in November 2022 . <h> Support Our Mission : Make a Difference ! <p> The Canadian Jewish News is now a Registered Journalism Organization ( RJO ) as defined by the Canada Revenue Agency . To help support the valuable work we 're doing , we 're asking for individual monthly donations of at least $10 . In exchange , you 'll receive tax receipts , a thank-you gift of our quarterly magazine delivered to your door , and our gratitude for helping continue our mission . If you have any questions about the donating process , please write toemail protected . <h> Support the Media that Speaks to You <p> Jewish Canadians deserve more than social media rumours , adversarial action alerts , and reporting with biases that are often undisclosed . The Canadian Jewish News proudly offers independent national coverage on issues that impact our audience each day , as a conduit for conversations that bridge generations . <p> It 's an outlet you can count on -- but we 're also counting on you . <p> Please support Jewish journalism that 's creative , innovative , and dedicated to breaking new ground to serve your community , while building on media traditions of the past 65 years . As a Registered Journalism Organization , contributions of any size are eligible for a charitable tax receipt .
