<h> These Brazilian caramel-coloured stray dogs were long overlooked . Now , they 're having a major moment <p> For decades , they have scrounged for food on streets across the country -- undesired , abandoned and overlooked . <p> But today , the caramel-coloured mutts of Brazil are having a major moment . The " vira-lata caramelo " ( literally : caramel trashcan-tipper ) is being exalted in memes , videos , petitions , an upcoming Netflix film , a Carnival parade and draft legislation to honour it as part of Brazilian culture . Caramelos ' newfound cachet speaks to the value of resilience in Brazil -- a melting pot of 213 million people known for weathering hard knocks with a smile -- and inverts its supposed " mongrel complex . " <p> A scene from Netflix 's " Caramelo " shot in October featured a beige puppy sitting beside a river in Sao Paulo watching picture-perfect families pass with their impeccable purebreds -- a golden retriever , a miniature collie and a Doberman . At the director of photography 's signal , a delivery boy cycled past and the plucky mutt gave chase , following the scent of pizza and seeking a way to get by . <p> " The caramelo ended up becoming the great symbol of Brazil , a symbol for the people , " Diego Freitas , the film 's director and co-writer , said after the day 's shooting . " Netflix was sensitive to what 's happening with the zeitgeist . The caramelo is the spirit of our time . " <h> Caramelos escape from the internet <p> The caramelo craze started online around 2019 . People posted the tongue-in-cheek phrase , " This represents Brazil more than soccer or samba , " along with photos of distinctively Brazilian phenomena , including caramelos galore . Social media accounts paid tribute to the caramelos ' antics : One invaded a dance show and relieved itself on stage ; another played dead while receiving chest compressions for a CPR training video . Online retailers started hawking caramelo-shaped throw pillows . <p> A petition to replace the macaw on Brazil 's 10-reais ( US$1.65 ) bill garnered 50,000 signatures in 2019 . <p> " The caramelo has established itself as a landmark of the Brazilian people , being well loved and received in all states of the country , being an excellent representative of our culture , " it proclaimed . " Therefore it deserves mention on our currency . " <p> The next year , another petition to emblazon the medium-sized dog on the 200-reais note received triple the support . <p> Many cite kindness as the caramelos ' secret charm , but more often say it 's that they 're savvy survivors . <p> Case in point is a caramelo in the northeastern city Joao Pessoa . Last year , Khelson Silva , 59 , left the gym with a friend and found the stray waiting . It took Silva 's friend 's finger gingerly between its teeth and led them for three blocks . <p> " He got to my building , walked straight into the garage , went up the elevator and right into the house , " said Silva , who learned this caramelo , now named Persistent Jos ? , had attempted similar gambits before . " It was him who chose us . He knew where we lived . " <h> The ' crazy mixture ' of Brazil <p> Writer Nelson Rodrigues coined the now-infamous term " mongrel complex " after the national soccer team 's humiliating World Cup defeat in 1950 , aiming to encapsulate what he perceived as Brazil 's sense of inferiority compared to other nations . Today , many see Brazil 's diverse roots -- immigrants , enslaved Africans and Indigenous people -- as a source of pride . <p> Tina Castro , an English teacher in Rio de Janeiro , equates owning a caramelo with loving the " crazy mixture " of Brazil and its people . <p> " It comes from a marginal place , like Brazil . It has a history of survival and marginalization , " said Castro , 32 . " We value the caramelo in the way we value our country , as it is . " <p> " Caramelos will dominate the world ! " has become a jokey rallying cry online , and foreign allies are lending a hand . After touring Brazil in November , singer Bruno Mars posed with a caramelo in his viral farewell video . Staff of the British mission to Brazil overwhelmingly voted in July to christen their new digital mascot , a Welsh Corgi , " Lord Caramelo . " <h> ' The caramelo , a national icon ' <p> The budget for Netflix 's " Caramelo " is part of 1 billion reais ( US$164 million ) spent from 2023-24 on Brazilian productions to capture eyeballs in one of the world 's biggest video streaming markets . Netflix has n't set a release date . <p> " The movie is a big bet for Netflix , a superproduction , " Netflix Brasil 's press office told The Associated Press . " It 's the first Brazilian film with a dog as a protagonist , and it could n't be any other than the caramelo , a national icon . " <p> Others catapulting the caramelo into the spotlight include Rio 's Sao Clemente samba school . At its three-story workshop downtown on Nov. 28 , seamstresses churned out strips of sheer yellow fabric for dozens of towering caramelo costumes . Each will feature a giant foam head in the school 's 2025 Carnival parade , whose theme is animal abandonment and abuse . <p> A few blocks away , Lt. Col. Sidnei Robson Pazini says Brazilians are merely rediscovering long-lost devotion . He directs the Rio military police 's museum and archive , and says the " most iconic , most emblematic " piece -- more than the muskets , cannon or painting worth almost US$1 million -- is a taxidermied caramelo that 's about 150 years old . <p> The dog often visited a Rio police battalion for food -- earning the name Bruto -- then joined officers shipping off to war in Paraguay , despite efforts to stop him boarding . Bruto alerted troops to approaching enemies , signaled where soldiers needed rescue and , after surviving a gunshot , returned to Rio a hero . When he died , police took up a collection to have him stuffed , with a silver collar bearing the words " Constancy , Love and Fidelity . " <p> Street dogs still find succor inside police battalions . One in Rio adopted a caramelo in 2018 and gave him the rank of corporal . At a ceremony in July , he was promoted to sergeant . <p> Director Diego Freitas plays with caramelo dogs on the set of the Netflix film " Caramelo " in Sao Paulo , Tuesday , Oct. 29 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Andre Penner ) <h> Famous but homeless , caramelos still need help <p> Amid this caramelo hype , one might think Brazilians would be jostling to adopt their own . But volunteers at two shelters told the AP they still get passed over for smaller , fluffier or whiter dogs . <p> The Indefesos shelter in Rio had 217 dogs on Dec. 12 -- about half caramelos . One clambers over a 6-foot wall to welcome visitors , his favorite ball in his mouth . <p> " It 's absurd . We rush because we know that animal , when it grows up , will never have the chance for a home , " said Rosana Guerra , the nonprofit 's president . " They end up staying , waiting for adoption that never comes . " <p> In the Netflix film , the stray scampers into the hectic life of a career-driven chef and helps him find meaning in the present . Freitas , the director , said he aims for it to touch Brazilians ' hearts and transform caramelo affinity into action . <p> The puppy that pursued the delivery boy that gray October day had been found in a box beside a highway with its nine siblings . Four play the young version of the film 's 1-year-old star that was also a stray . Since filming wrapped Nov. 26 , six of the film 's once-homeless canines were adopted by crew members and others . <p> " It 's a story that I hope is worthy of the dogs , because they are incredible , " Freitas said , with his own caramelo -- the film 's inspiration -- at his feet . " They change our lives . " <h> CTVNews.ca Top Stories <p> A W5 investigation showed how convicted criminals ordered to pay restitution struggled to do so , and how just $7 million of more than $250 million had been confirmed to be claimed . While many provinces struggle to keep track , Saskatchewan is leading the way in making sure victims get their money . <p> A police officer who died after having a suspected medical episode on duty was executing a search warrant in connection with an ongoing robbery investigation in North York , Toronto police confirmed Thursday . <p> Conan O'Brien is remembering his recently deceased parents . In an interview with the Boston Globe , the former late night television host talked about his mother , Ruth Reardon O'Brien , who died last Thursday , and Dr. Thomas F. O'Brien , who preceded his wife in death three days earlier . <p> A yearlong trial of 493 adults , with an average age of 53 , found vagus nerve stimulation therapy led to improvement in participants ' depressive symptoms , ability to complete daily tasks and quality of life . <p> A police officer who died after having a suspected medical episode on duty was executing a search warrant in connection with an ongoing robbery investigation in North York , Toronto police confirmed Thursday . <p> A W5 investigation showed how convicted criminals ordered to pay restitution struggled to do so , and how just $7 million of more than $250 million had been confirmed to be claimed . While many provinces struggle to keep track , Saskatchewan is leading the way in making sure victims get their money . <p> The Ottawa Police Service ( OPS ) says it is committed to repairing the " fractured relationships " it has with the local Somali community in the wake of the inquest into the 2016 death of Abdirahman Abdi . <p> Rubi Patricia Vergara and Erin Michelle West were killed in a Monday morning shooting at the school in Madison , Wisconsin , the Dane County Medical Examiner 's Office said . Here 's what we know about the victims . <p> The suspect in the killing of UnitedHealthcare 's CEO was whisked back to New York by helicopter Thursday to face new federal charges of murder and stalking , escalating the case after his earlier indictment on state charges . <p> The New York City mayor 's former chief adviser , her son and two real estate investors were indicted on Thursday in a bribery conspiracy , charges that come as the mayor himself faces a separate corruption case and a series of criminal investigations roils City Hall . <p> Human Rights Watch on Thursday accused Israel of causing the deaths of thousands of Palestinians by systematically restricting and targeting Gaza 's water supply in a campaign that amounted to ' acts of genocide . ' <p> The Liberal government was thrown into disarray this week when Chrystia Freeland stepped down from cabinet as finance minister , reviving calls for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to step down or call an election . <p> The federal justice minister says a new commission that will review potential wrongful convictions will help racialized and Indigenous Peoples seek justice who are overrepresented in the criminal justice system . <p> A yearlong trial of 493 adults , with an average age of 53 , found vagus nerve stimulation therapy led to improvement in participants ' depressive symptoms , ability to complete daily tasks and quality of life . <p> The press freedom group Reporters Without Borders is urging Apple to remove its newly introduced artificial intelligence feature that summarizes news stories after it produced a false headline from the BBC . <p> Dozens of massive data centres humming at the outskirts of Dublin are consuming more electricity than all of the urban homes in Ireland and starting to wear out the warm welcome that brought them here . <p> DC Studios debuted the first trailer for its feature film " Superman " on Thursday . Directed by James Gunn , the Man of Steel is shown bloodied by a crash landing at the beginning of the teaser before he 's rescued by his super-cute superpup , Krypto . <p> Conan O'Brien is remembering his recently deceased parents . In an interview with the Boston Globe , the former late night television host talked about his mother , Ruth Reardon O'Brien , who died last Thursday , and Dr. Thomas F. O'Brien , who preceded his wife in death three days earlier . <p> Jenson Brooksby tugged at the right shoulder of his red T-shirt and fiddled with some strands of his dirty blond hair as he spoke to The Associated Press about what he 'd like the world -- the tennis world , yes , but also everyone else -- to know about him . <p> The seven candidates running for International Olympic Committee president had their manifestos published on Thursday , and one is offering to take just half of the eight-year mandate on offer and stand again in 2029 . <p> U.S. auto safety regulators have backed away from seeking a giant recall of nearly 50 million air bag inflators and will investigate further after the auto industry raised questions about whether all of the inflators are defective . <p> A police officer who died after having a suspected medical episode on duty was executing a search warrant in connection with an ongoing robbery investigation in North York , Toronto police confirmed Thursday . <p> A report on the Alberta government 's proposed alignment for Calgary 's Green Line light-rail transit project says noise , ease of construction and impact to existing properties need to be studied further if the city moves forward . <p> Volunteers at the Veterans Food Bank work constantly in the warehouse to empty food donation bins and fill holiday food hampers for hundreds of families . The problem is there 's not enough food being donated and the hampers will be delivered on December 21st . <p> Three former hospital employees have been charged following investigations into unrelated alleged breach of patient privacy incidents that took place over the course of last year in different parts of the province , according to the Ontario Provincial Police ( OPP ) . <p> The Ottawa Police Service ( OPS ) says it is committed to repairing the " fractured relationships " it has with the local Somali community in the wake of the inquest into the 2016 death of Abdirahman Abdi . <p> The vacancy rate in Montreal is going up for the first time since the pandemic started -- but so are rents , which almost doubled in six years , according to new data from the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation ( CMHC ) . <p> A developing storm moving northward just off the U.S. eastern seaboard looks likely to bring a heavy early winter snowfall to much of Nova Scotia , Prince Edward Island , and the southeastern corner of New Brunswick . <p> A W5 investigation showed how convicted criminals ordered to pay restitution struggled to do so , and how just $7 million of more than $250 million had been confirmed to be claimed . While many provinces struggle to keep track , Saskatchewan is leading the way in making sure victims get their money . <p> A snow squall watch has been issued by Environment Canada for much of the area , including Huron and Bruce County , Sarnia-Lambton , and London-Middlesex . A weather advisory has also been issued for western Elgin County . <p> Energy observers in Newfoundland and Labrador are urging the provincial government to take a sober second look at a massive tentative deal announced last week with Quebec that promises to deliver hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue to the Atlantic province .
