<p> In a world often dominated by challenging headlines , Yahoo News Canada aims to spotlight uplifting news stories both local and beyond . This week 's inspiring stories feature a Netflix show spotlighting Iqaluit as its setting and star , a unique poetry-dispensing pharmacy aimed at soothing the soul and a heroic dad who rescued his 11-month-old son from a flooding car -- despite not knowing how to swim . <p> On Nov. 21 , 2024 , the 62-year-old marathon runner from Spiritwood , Sask. , accomplished an extraordinary feat -- completing the Great World Race : seven marathons , on seven continents , in just seven days . Finishing 19th out of 60 competitors , Willick had one simple goal : cross every finish line uninjured , in good time , and ready for the next grueling race . <p> According to the BBC , 22-year-old Randles -- who does n't know how to swim -- ended up on the flooded road after being diverted from a different route . A sudden dip in the road left him no time to react as his car was engulfed by rising floodwaters . <p> Andre Randles entered the flood water after he was diverted off the main road . ( Image courtesy : BBC News ) <p> " As soon as I saw danger , saw the water coming into the car and we were no longer floating and starting to sink , something switched in me , " Randles said . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> He added that the car quickly became " almost completely submerged in water , " telling the outlet , " I thought I needed to get out and get Luca out . " <p> Paige Newsome wrote on Facebook that her partner , Andre Randles , had pulled their son Luca to safety as Storm Bert brought heavy rain and strong winds to the U.K. over the weekend . <p> Calling the whole thing " really scary , " Newsome said : " To think I could have actually lost them both -- I do n't know how I would 've lived . " <p> She echoed that to the BBC : " It could 've been a completely different outcome . We could not be sitting here with both of them , so I 'm very grateful to Andre . " <p> " I 'm very proud of him and of how fast-thinking he was , " Newsome said . <h> ? ? Watch : Christmas miracle after dying donkey is rescued and given shelter <h> ' People are going to be really , really proud ' : Netflix show ' North of North ' , made in Iqaluit , premieres at home <p> Excitement filled the air in Iqaluit as Nunavummiut packed the Astro Theatre for two sold-out screenings of North of North , a new Netflix series filmed right in their backyard . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The series , which showcases Iqaluit as both its setting and star , made its highly anticipated premiere in the Nunavut capital , drawing a crowd eager to see their community on the big screen . <p> " Bringing a show like this to a global audience is something that we could n't even fathom or dream about in the very beginnings of creating this show , " co-creator Stacey Aglok MacDonald shared in an interview with CBC News . <p> From left to right : Stacey Aglok MacDonald , Marika Harper , Zorga Qaunaq , Anna Lambe and Alethea Arnaquq-Baril at the premiere of North of North in Iqaluit on Monday . ( Image courtesy : CBC News ) <p> The show , which was co-commissioned by CBC and Netflix in association with APTN , takes place in the fictional community of Ice Cove , shot in Iqaluit . After a spontaneous , and public , exit from her marriage , the show 's main character Siaja tries to find her way on her own . <p> Arnaquq-Baril said even though it 's fictional , the show 's story is relatable not only to other Inuit , but to people all over the world . <p> " I think a lot of Inuit will definitely see the show and feel like they can recognize a lot of the characters , like that could be their mother , that could be their sister , that could be their boss . While it 's fictional , it 's definitely based on our life experiences , " Alethea Arnaquq-Baril , the shows other co-creator shared . <p> With the show being made available to people all over the world through Netflix , Lambe said it 's an opportunity to bring Nunavut to a global audience . <p> Iqaluit actress Anna Lambe , known for her roles in The Grizzlies , Trickster and True Detective : Night Country , said she hopes the series shows the lives of Inuit to more people all over the world . ( Image courtesy : CBC News ) <p> " I think sometimes people only understand Inuit as like a historical people -- like we do n't exist anymore , we 're something that happened in history and then we all got wiped out , " Lambe said . <p> " Our day-to-day lives might look a little bit different . It might look a little bit colder . But at the end of the day , we do all the same things . And we have goals and dreams and hopes . And , you know , all I want is for people to see Inuit as Inuit , you know , Inuit as people and that we have so many incredible , funny , exciting stories to tell and that we 're still here . " <p> " We 're still here and we 're going to stay here . " <p> Do you have an uplifting moment or story you would like to share with us ? Email the Yahoo Canada team : canadatips@yahoonews.com . <p> Sergei Polunin , a former star at London 's Royal Ballet , said on Wednesday that he had decided to leave Russia with his family , complaining that his " soul " did not feel like it was in its right place . Ukrainian-born Polunin , 35 , has had a sometimes tempestuous but garlanded career so far . He became the Royal Ballet 's youngest ever principal at the age of 20 before abruptly leaving two years later , has received numerous international awards for his dancing , and has performed at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow and at La Scala in Milan . <p> Syria will remove all references to the former ruling Baath party from its educational system as of next week but will not otherwise change school curricula or restrict the rights of girls to learn , the country 's new education minister said . " Education is a red line for the Syrian people , more important than food and water , " Nazir Mohammad al-Qadri said in an interview from his office in Damascus . The secular , pan-Arab nationalist Baath Party governed Syria since a 1963 coup d'etat , seeing education as an important tool for instilling life-long loyalty among the young to the country 's authoritarian ruling system . <p> Here are five things to know as Week 16 of the NFL season approaches , including the league 's top five teams . - - -Subscribe to The Post Most newsletter for the most important and interesting stories from The Washington Post . Can the onside kick be fixed ? The NFL plans to try . The NFL appears to have landed on a concept to save the kickoff from pro football extinction . Next , it might attempt to restore some measure of relevance to the onside kick . While NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and Troy Vin <p> Lil Wayne , Chris Brown and Marshmello are just a few of the musicians who applied for and received payouts as part of the Shuttered Venue Operations Grant , a government program meant to aid independent venues and arts groups struggling during the pandemic . But according to a new report , they allegedly used the money to instead ... <p> Molly Burgess knew something had happened to her 11-year-old son as soon as she saw him.He had just arrived home from school and was visibly upset . His face was red and he burst into tears . She took him into her arms and realized he was very cold and wet . Mark had left school last Tuesday wearing only a T-shirt and his indoor shoes . His jacket , hat , winter boots and backpack were all left in his locker at Barnhill Memorial School , a middle school on Saint John 's west side . According to Environme <p> Donald Trump has become embroiled in a behind-the-scenes power struggle with Elon Musk over the jettisoned Republican-led spending deal . One month before the president-elect returns in triumph to the White House , he is already facing a challenge to his authority from the tech titan credited with doing the most to get him there . Trump may have asserted his own power over Republicans on Capitol Hill in demolishing the compromise deal that appeared all set to be ratified -- but he was still taking sec <p> Pamela Anderson 's eldest son Brandon Thomas Lee is getting emotional . It 's taken years , but he might have helped shatter a Hollywood stereotype that has been a cloud over Anderson 's career for years . The actor-turned-producer is sitting on Zoom discussing her recent success in Roadside Attractions " The Last Showgirl , " which Gia Coppola directed . In the film , ... <p> Israeli airstrikes slammed into two schools sheltering displaced Palestinians in Gaza City on Thursday , a Health Ministry official said , killing at least 17 people including five children in one of the schools . Rescue workers said at 30 people were also wounded across both locations . <p> NEW YORK -- Luigi Mangione was headed to New York Thursday after waiving his extradition in Pennsylvania -- in an unexpected development , to face federal charges stemming from the fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson , law enforcement sources told the Daily News . Mangione is expected to be flown to Long Island 's MacArthur Airport , then the Wall Street heliport and from there ...
