<h> Most ' words of the year ' do n't actually tell us about the state of the world -- here 's what I 'd pick instead <p> Part of the brain rot phenomenon arises when people create and exchange phrases and words that are frivolous , transient , ironic or just nonsensical . ( Pexels Photo ) <p> It seems to come earlier every year : publishers and dictionaries choosing their " word of the year " . Initially intended to sum up a meaningful trend or feeling that represents the past year , the exercise is now becoming a competition to identify and highlight fashionable slang . <p> Collins went with brat , the Charli XCX album phenomenon as applied to reckless , feisty females ( and briefly to Kamala Harris ) . Cambridge 's word was manifest , influencer-speak for " wish hard and make it happen " . <p> Oxford , after a poll , nominated brain rot , the mind-numbing result of scrolling and online obsessing , with slop ( low-quality content produced by AI ) as runner-up . Dictionary.com chose demure , used ironically to promote a more dignified pose or attitude on the part of online showoffs . <p> What strikes me -- a lexicologist ( word analyst ) -- is that these picks show not only how aspects of society are changing , but how the nature of words themselves evolves in unexpected ways . <p> The faddish terms that have made this year 's list are , like most slang ( including last year 's pick " rizz " ) , largely generated by members of younger demographics , in particular gen Z. <p> Older onlookers may try ( and fail ) to grasp the significance of these quirky expressions . We need to realise that they are invented and used in ways that are often different to how traditional vocabulary functions . They are not necessarily defining facts , actions or processes or at all . Rather , they are finding names for what a younger cohort calls vibes , aesthetics or microtrends -- capturing a feeling , rather than describing a concept . <p> These words are often themselves memes , concepts disseminated virally that incorporate images and sounds too ( what researchers call " multimodality " ) . Demure , for example , stemmed from a TikTok video with a specific voice attached . Without that meme element , it 's unlikely to have reached the status of word of the year . <p> We ca n't even be sure that the new expressions are meant to be taken seriously , or that they actually mean anything at all . Part of the brain rot phenomenon arises when people create and exchange phrases and words that are frivolous , transient , ironic or just nonsensical . ( See : " skibidi " ) . <p> Some of this can be explained by another phenomenon ( and one of my own candidates for word of the year ) : trendbait . This describes new words , messages or performances deliberately generated by online influencers to draw attention to themselves and gain followers and fame . <p> In any case , Dazed magazine , whose millennial and gen Z staff largely inhabit the world from which those terms emanate , are unhappy with the publishers ' final choices . They 've pointed out that one of the most ubiquitous and important novelties of the year is not a word but a suffix : -maxxing . This means to maximise , enhance or exaggerate one 's persona , and is added to form such expressions as looksmaxxing , sleepmaxxing and smellmaxxing . <h> What 's in a word of the year ? <p> As I wrote at this time last year , there is still an enormous elephant in the room . It 's easy to understand why dictionary and news publishers choose amusing , intriguing verbal curiosities and exotic novelties to highlight at year-end . <p> But this means they are sidestepping the darker , more pressing concerns affecting millions worldwide . Just a few publishers selected words that reflect the state of play in the wider world . Their choices stressed a dystopian perspective . Drawing on survey data and search traffic , US dictionary publisher Merriam-Webster chose the rather underwhelming though admittedly relevant polarization . <p> In Australia , Macquarie Dictionaries selected the very rude enshittification . This term was coined to evoke the way in which society is increasingly not working , and processes and services are more and more unable to deliver . The Economist choice was kakistocracy , a 17th-century mock-pompous coinage describing rule by the worst elements of society . Like enshittification , this underlines disenchantment with established structures and ruling elites . <p> I would have put forward another candidate in this category : " broligarchy " , in use on social media for years but only now appearing in mainstream media . This reflects the idea that members of a tech and finance elite , the billionaires and the platform-owners , capricious and irresponsible though they may be , are now usurping the power formerly wielded by governments and lawmakers . <p> In my ongoing , exhausting attempts to track language innovations and change , I 've recorded a number of other terms which seem to me to be particularly representative of our priorities in 2024 . The name of the UN climate summit , Cop29 , was in itself a sort of buzzword . Related keywords were mitigation , NDCs ( nationally determined contributions ) , and for several years running , net zero . <p> Ambient information is a new phrase describing the facts , rumours and conspiracies circulating online , from which many people now derive their worldview rather than from official or traditional news sources . Dynamic pricing , a commercial euphemism for adjusting prices of popular products ( this year 's Oasis concert tickets , for example ) to the very maximum that hapless consumers can afford . <p> Words of the year do not have to be new coinages , but may be existing words that seem to have become particularly apposite or resonant . My choice last year was target -- noun and verb -- reflecting my horror about the unfolding humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza , and how it was covered in some media . The geopolitical catastrophes have only multiplied since then . <p> Forgive my cynicism , then , if my word of 2024 -- spiking in online usage but also frequently heard in street protests and private expressions of indignation -- is " complicit " .
