<h> Canadian Filmmakers of the Year : Denis Villeneuve and Pascal Plante ( tie ) <p> The Canadian film industry might be in a state of perpetual crisis -- there are almost too many calamities to choose from this year , but let 's go with C-11 and the uncertain state of Telefilm funding , for starters -- and yet our best and brightest directors continue to break boundaries at home and abroad . Especially if those filmmakers happen to be from Quebec . With his magnificent , somewhat-improbable sequel , Dune : Part Two , Denis Villeneuve has now ascended the mountains of the film industry to breathe the rarified air of true Hollywood titans . At this point , it is really just Villeneuve , fellow Canadian James Cameron and Christopher Nolan who can lay claim to being the true kings of the blockbuster world -- their names alone are enough to draw rabid fandoms and critical appetite-whetting , no matter the actual stories they are telling . And unlike , say , fellow Canadian filmmaker Shawn Levy -- the man behind the year 's most financially successful but artistically soulless endeavour , Deadpool &amp; Wolverine -- Villeneuve has never forgotten where he has come from , and who might be coming after him . There is simply no stronger or more committed advocate for Canadian cinema -- and the systems that make such art possible -- than Villeneuve . Speaking of the next generation : Villeneuve 's younger but no less fiercely talented Qu ? b ? cois colleague Pascal Plante accomplished a feat this year greater than even imagining the desert plains of Arrakis : He managed to get American moviegoers to care about French-language Canadian cinema . Slowly but surely , Plante 's razor-sharp serial-killer thriller Red Rooms , which got only a flicker of attention during its brief English-Canadian release in 2023 , has become the most talked-about movie in the most influential corners of U.S. film circles . Seek Red Rooms out before Plante inevitably gets lured by Americans to make his own Dune-sized tentpole . Barry Hertz <h> Canadian Actress of the Year : Deragh Campbell <p> There is brave , and then there is Deragh Campbell brave . The most fearless performer of her generation , Campbell possesses a determined and unparalleled desire to claw under the skin of her characters , evaporating the line between fabrication and fact to a wisp of thin air . And 2024 proved to be her breakout year -- if we can just get Canadian moviegoers to actually pay attention to what 's going on inside our own borders , that is . So here 's the top tip of the year that will make you feel better once Campbell breaks out even further : Keep your eyes out for two of this past fall 's big Canadian film-fest premieres : Kazik Radwanski 's romantic dramedy Matt and Mara , and Sofia Bohdanowicz 's Measures for a Funeral . Each film requires a wildly different tenor from its star -- Radwanski needs Campbell to be wry and stirring as she cozies up to an old boyfriend , while Bohdanowicz forces her star into far more haunted and uncomfortable corners as an academic uncovering forgotten history . Yet the actress takes to both challenges -- each directed by familiar collaborators whose filmographies have evolved in lockstep with Campbell 's -- as if they were the most natural of journeys . Watching her figure out her place on-screen , not just in her 2024 films ( which also included the underseen and unsettling drama Family Portrait from New York director Lucy Kerr ) , but over the course of her career , is akin to watching a cinematic high-wire act . Her work is a series of wonderfully constructed , audacious dares . Do n't dare turn away , or you 'll risk missing something astonishing . Barry Hertz <p> Alex Sarian , the president and chief executive officer of Calgary 's Arts Commons performing- and visual-arts complex , is not only an optimist who spends his spare time trying to combat all these problems -- he 's proven that with the right effort , you can find transformative amounts of money . In June , Sarian revealed that he 'd secured a $75-million donation from oil field waste-treatment industry giant Dave Werklund and his family to help transform Arts Commons . It 'll soon be renamed the Werklund Centre . <p> The CEO did it by getting to know Werklund , and recognizing that his commitment to community and education fit nicely with expanding Calgarians ' access both to culture and to learning about it . The gift brought Arts Commons to 76 per cent of its $660-million goal for the project -- itself one of the country 's most financially ambitious arts-infrastructure endeavours ever . The transformation will see its existing facility upgraded , a new building added and the neighbouring outdoor Olympic Plaza redesigned . Josh O'Kane <h> Confronter of the year : Mustafa <p> " Toronto is full of horrors , " Mustafa Ahmed told The Globe earlier this year , " but it 's steeped in nostalgia . " His identity has been intertwined with the city since he first came to prominence as a preteen poet in 2009 , yet he has minced few words about the place since recently leaving for Los Angeles . Recognizing the whole of his relationship with Toronto means reckoning with conflict . It is the city , he said , in which his family faced hostility from the health care system and the police ; it is also the place where he " first discovered music , truth and heartbreak . " <p> The Sudanese-Canadian artist released his debut full-length album , Dunya , in September , after expanding from poetry to song while embracing these kinds of conflicts , internal and external . He served on the Prime Minister 's Youth Council shortly after Justin Trudeau took office , but confronted him last year about Israel 's war with Hamas , asking him to " defy this active genocide and imprisonment that is levelling Gaza . " <p> Dunya 's title can be roughly translated from Arabic into " the world and all its flaws . " Flaws are unhelpful if ignored or treated as erroneous or malicious ; they can be conversation starters if they 're instead interpreted with humanity and nuance . Dunya embraces the latter interpretation of flaws , and of conflict . There are hard truths in life worth acknowledging . " There 's nowhere I can go , " he sings in Leaving Toronto , " that has enough room to let me bring my hood . " Josh O'Kane <h> Systems-of-distribution disruptor of the year : Cindy Lee <p> We 're nearly a decade removed from the era when artists such as Beyonc ? and Frank Ocean could cause fan uproars by limiting the services through which they put out albums . These days , the most-talked-about artists usually release albums across as many platforms as possible . Unless you 're Cindy Lee . <p> Lee , the musical project and drag persona of Patrick Flegel -- formerly of the critically acclaimed Calgary band Women -- released the album Diamond Jubilee in March with as little planned promotion as possible . It was first made available only on YouTube and a nineties-looking GeoCities-esque website . Across 32 tracks cast in a gauzy , AM radio haze , Lee takes listeners through worlds of jangle , groove and dirge . And in the days that followed , Diamond Jubilee gradually set the indie-music and critical worlds ablaze . <p> The hype that followed was remarkable : widespread acclaim , including the highest score that music website Pitchfork has issued in yearsand the top spot on numerous album-of-the-year lists , plus a sold-out 27-day tour . This response , however , was antithetical to the album 's quiet release strategy ; the hype was perhaps too enormous . Lee wound up cancelling the tour partway through . While fans hope that all is well for Lee , and for continued music under the moniker , the story of Diamond Jubilee is a powerful one . In the era of algorithmic mediation , you can still make art for art 's sake . Josh O'Kane <h> Trendsetter of the year : Wanda Nanibush <p> In November , 2023 , word got around that Wanda Nanibush had left the Art Gallery of Ontario -- in a political controversy that proved to be a bellwether for the Canadian arts scene in 2024 . <p> Nanibush was the gallery 's respected Indigenous curator , co-head of its Canadian and Indigenous department with Georgiana Uhlyarik , with whom she wrote an award-winning book , Moving the Museum . She was also outspoken in her political beliefs , had previously drawn comparisons between Indigenous experience and Palestinians in the Middle East and had been posting on social media in the aftermath of the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack on Israel and the war in Gaza . Sources told The Globe that her statements , on several topics including Palestinian causes , had rankled with some staff and gallery supporters , and that the Israel-Hamas war had brought the situation to a head . <p> In a memo to staff , AGO director Stephan Jost said her departure was a mutual decision to give her freedom to express her views . Nanibush herself made no comment and deleted her social-media posts but Indigenous leaders and cultural workers complained loudly on her behalf . <p> In 2023 , this controversy felt like a reckoning for museums as they try to integrate radical change-makers into venerable institutions . But by 2024 , it became clear that Nanibush 's case was also typical of the divisions tearing the whole community apart as it argued over the Israel-Hamas war and people 's right to express themselves in cultural forums . Artists on both sides of the debate allege they have been censored or lost work because of their political views . <p> A year after Nanibush left , the Leonard &amp; BinaEllen Art Gallery at Concordia University parted company with its newly appointed director Pip Day , apparently in a similar dispute . ( A gallery representative confirmed Day 's departure but otherwise declined to comment on a personnel matter . ) Hers was just the latest name in a long list of resignations , event cancellations , boycotts and protests that disrupted the Canadian arts community through 2024 . Kate Taylor <h> Roots-rock Renaissance man of the year : Tom Wilson <p> Ten years ago , Hamilton-based singer-songwriter Tom Wilson told The Globe and Mail that being a mid-level , middle-aged artist was like being in a bar fight : " You pick up whatever you have to in the moment to stay alive . " He 's still alive , and he 's still picking up things ( pens , paint brushes , honorary degrees etc . ) . There was a time in his life when all he was picking up were guitars , dry-wall jobs and bad habits . <p> In 2023 , he was appointed a Companion of the Order of Canada , for his " multifaceted contributions to the arts in Canada " and his " advocacy of Indigenous communities in Canada . " Two months ago , he was awarded an honorary degree from McMaster University 's faculty of humanities , which cited him as being " part of Canadian artistic lore . " <p> This spring , his musical , Beautiful Scars , written with Shaun Smyth and based on Wilson 's 2017 memoir of the same name , premiered at Hamilton 's Theatre Aquarius . The story is about Wilson 's late-in-life discovery of his hidden Mohawk heritage . The musical was reviewed in The Globe as a big-hearted crowd-pleaser that educated on cultural identity and unsettled psyches . <p> Not only did Wilson 's eye-popping artwork serve as a big part of the play 's staging , an exhibit of his pieces ran concurrently at Beckett Fine Art in Hamilton . Last month , his decolonial painting We Will Not Be Destroyed was mounted at the McMichael Canadian Art Collection . <p> Wilson is one-third of the roots-rock trio Blackie and the Rodeo Kings , but this month he revived his 1990s rock group Junkhouse for a pair of reunion shows at Toronto 's Horseshoe Tavern . He sang the hit tune Shine : " It 's just a matter of time before we get to shine/ It 's not a question of when , or who does the crime . " It 's a damn good song . Brad Wheeler <h> Choreographers of the year : Rick and Jeff Kuperman <p> The Kuperman brothers experienced twin successes in 2024 -- choreographing two shows in New York still in open-ended runs . <p> In June , The Outsiders , a Broadway musical adaptation of the 1967 coming-of-age novel by S.E. Hinton that the pair choreographed , walked away with the Tony Award for Best Musical . <p> Then in August , Life and Trust , an immersive spectacle inspired by the Faust legend that the Canadian brothers co-directed and choreographed , opened over six floors of a skyscraper in Manhattan 's Financial District -- and quickly developed a rabid fan base . <p> Rick , 35 , and Jeff , 34 -- the two are n't twins ; they are 13 months apart in age -- were born in North York , Ont. , and grew up in Thornhill , Ont . As boys , the Kupermans first began exploring the world of bodily movement in gymnastics , then took up dance , before ultimately adding martial arts to their arsenal . <p> The mix of art and athleticism of their aesthetic was apparent in the Tony Award telecast performance of The Outsiders , which features some of the most original choreography for rival gangs facing off since West Side Story . ( The two were nominated for best choreography . ) <p> Their ambition and work ethic was evident in Life and Trust -- a sprawling piece featuring 30 characters for whom they had to devise about 1,000 minutes of original material . <p> The two are now looking to lead creative teams from the ground up , but still plan to work together . Says Jeff : " It 's a chaotic and unpredictable industry so it 's nice to have a partner you can depend upon as family . " J. Kelly Nestruck <p> Sign up for The Globe 's arts and lifestyle newsletters for more news , columns and advice in your inbox.
