<p> With a month left in the White House , U.S. President Joe Biden has a long list of foreign and domestic policy actions he hopes to get done before president-elect Donald Trump assumes office , where the Republican is expected to try to reverse much of Biden 's record . <p> Atop Biden 's list are final , hurried pushes to secure a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of American hostages abroad , distribute more aid to Ukraine , issue more pardons to non-violent criminals , forgive more student debt , release more funding for semiconductor chip production , and potentially block the sale of U.S. Steel , according to White House aides and an internal memo seen by Reuters . <p> The list reflects how drawn-out and bloody wars in Europe and the Middle East on Biden 's watch hijacked his legacy overseas , where he promised to restore and strengthen American leadership . Simultaneously , Democrats ' election failures have shaken his legacy at home . <p> Biden , 82 , promised to remake the U.S. economy as president and clocked significant legislative wins in the first half of his four-year term , including the bipartisan infrastructure and inflation reduction bills . <p> But major lawmaking essentially ground to a halt after Republicans won the House in the 2022 midterm elections . Some Democrats blame Biden 's refusal to step aside as candidate for their colossal defeats this November , most notably Vice President Kamala Harris ' loss to Trump in every battleground state . <p> Securing a ceasefire deal in the war between Israel and Hamas that Palestinian authorities say has killed over 45,000 in Gaza , and bolstering Ukraine 's defense in its nearly 3-year war with Russia are top priorities , White House officials say . <p> " This is not an uncommon thing for presidents at the end of their term or in the transition period if there are unresolved conflicts , " said U.S. presidential historian and Vanderbilt University professor Thomas Alan Schwartz . <p> A ceasefire deal in the 14-month war in Gaza could happen in the coming days , with the administration making a forceful diplomatic push this week . Similar hopeful discussions have flopped in the past , but the scope of this agreement is narrower . <p> Biden is also rushing weapons to Ukraine for fear that Trump , who often boasts of his close relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin , may be less likely to aid Ukraine 's war effort . <p> He may also seek to close a stripped-down security pact with Saudi Arabia , which could strengthen both countries against Iran . The oil-rich Middle East power rejected Biden 's condition of normalizing relations with Israel and consequently abandoned talks of a binding mutual defense treaty with the U.S. <p> Biden 's final domestic policy sprint will include distributing the remaining funds he secured through his landmark investment legislation , including high-speed internet funding to states , according to an internal memo seen by Reuters . In January , he is expected to announce a $2,000 prescription drug cost cap for Medicare recipients , and he will work with Congress to get federal judges confirmed until the last minute , the memo said . <p> The stage is all but set for Biden to block the sale of U.S. Steel to an overseas buyer as soon as next week , something he has promised to do for nearly a year as he touts his mission to keep and expand manufacturing on U.S. soil . <p> The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States ( CFIUS ) , which reviews deals for national security risks , has a Dec. 23 deadline to approve the deal , extend the review , or recommend Biden scuttle it . <p> On this issue , Biden and Trump agree : Trump said earlier this month that he would block the deal . <p> Other priorities involve policies or programs that Trump is likely to oppose , including efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change . <p> The Treasury Department is expected as soon as today to issue its highly contested final guidance for the Inflation Reduction Act 's tax credit for hydrogen projects , and Biden officials are conferring with EU peers on locking in methane emissions before Trump takes office . <p> The Commerce Department is rapidly awarding its remaining funds to boost U.S. semiconductor chip manufacturing , which were allocated by Biden 's CHIPS and Science Act . Trump has criticized the program 's price tag , casting its future in doubt .
