<p> Details are scarce , but the forum will take place in Ottawa in February 2025 , under the direction of the justice department and the department of public safety . Political leaders from all three levels of government will be invited to discuss how to better coordinate the justice system and law enforcement and focus specifically on " the growing public safety threat of antisemitism , " according to a media release from the Department of Justice on Dec. 20 . <p> " Canada has seen a troubling rise in antisemitic incidents , threats , and hate crimes , " the release stated . " The Government of Canada recognizes the urgent need for national leadership to ensure Jewish Canadians feel safe in their synagogues , schools , and communities . " <p> This announcement comes at the end of a turbulent week that saw Congregation Beth Tikvah Ahavat Shalom Nusach Hoari , west of Montreal , firebombed overnight on Dec. 18 . It marked the second time since Oct. 7 , 2023 , that the Dollard-des-Ormeaux shul and adjacent Jewish school were targeted , as well as the West Island office of Montreal 's Federation CJA . <p> Then , on Dec. 20 , in Toronto , the Bais Chaya Mushka girls ' school was attacked by unknown gunmen who opened fire at 2:30 a.m. into the front of the building . It was the third time this year that the school has come under fire . No one was injured in either incident . <p> Jewish leaders have been pressing Ottawa to do more than issue sympathetic statements condemning antisemitism . They want to address meaningful gaps in policing across jurisdictions , and to press police to better enforce existing laws . In 2023 , there were 900 hate crimes against Jews reported to Canadian police ; Jews were the target of 70 percent of all religion-motivated hate crimes . <p> However , many community leaders point out that there have been few prosecutions , and are decrying that many of the charges eventually get dropped . Weekly antisemitic and anti-Israel street protests continue in many Canadian cities . Canadian and U.S. federal authorities have recently foiled several terrorist plots involving suspects who were charged with planning attacks on Jews in Ottawa , New York and Richmond Hill , Ont . <p> Rachel Bendayan , the newly appointed Minister of Official Languages and Associate Minister of Public Safety , was sworn in to Cabinet in Ottawa on Friday Dec. 20 , 2024 . ( House of Commons photo ) <p> New Jewish cabinet minister to play key role <p> As of now , it appears that a Jewish Liberal MP from Montreal could play a key role in the summit . Rachel Bendayan , a lawyer who has represented the riding of Outremont since 2019 , was named to the federal cabinet on Dec. 20 . Aside from her new duties as minister of official languages , Bendayan was named associate minister of public safety . <p> While Bendayan 's office did not reply to The CJN by publication time , she said she was " honoured and humbled to be sworn in as Minister of Official Languages and Associate Minister of Public Safety , " in a post on social media . " Grateful to share this moment with my family . Ready to get to work . " <p> Later , she told reporters she will convene the forum , together with the minister of justice , plus provincial and municipal leaders and police authorities , on behalf of her community which represents less than 1 per cent of the Canadian population . <p> " And we are going to be working together to address this heinous and intolerable rise in hate crimes in Canada , " Bendayan said , who was visibly emotional and raised her eyebrows when discussing the hate crime statistics against the Jewish community . <p> Between 2022 and 2023 , antisemitic hate crimes reported by police have increased by more than 70% . <p> This intolerable increase in antisemitic incidents , threats , and hate crimes requires leadership from all levels of government , law enforcement and key stakeholders . **26;27;TOOLONG <p> The February forum is being convened less than three years after the first antisemitism summit was held in July 2021 , in the wake of the brief Hamas-Israel war earlier that year . Canada 's first special envoy on antisemitism , Irwin Cotler , helped steer that day-long event , which was held virtually due to the COVID pandemic . The guest list was restricted at first to Liberal ministers and lawmakers . <p> Following that first summit , the Canadian heritage ministry promised a series of actions to combat antisemitism , and , as The CJN has reported , some of these have come into being : <p> Boosting financial help for Jewish communities in the government 's next anti-racism action plan , which was launched earlier this year <p> Adjustment of the Security Infrastructure Program , announced this year , to help Jewish places of worship , camps , schools and offices more easily afford to hire security guards , and fortify their security equipment <p> Introduced an online hate bill , aimed at tackling hate speech on social media . It has not been adopted yet , due to concerns about infringement on free speech <p> Hearings into antisemitism held on Parliament Hill , specifically looking at campus antisemitism <p> However , it has been more than a year since domestic antisemitism exploded in the wake of Oct. 7 . The violence has cost the lives of more than 800 Israeli soldiers and thousands of Palestinians , including Hamas terrorists , in Gaza . <p> Her colleague Anthony Housefather took it as an important signal that Bendayan 's nomination came on the same day as the antisemitism forum announcement . <p> In July , Housefather , who has since repeatedly called for the Prime Minister to resign , was named special advisor to Trudeau on matters concerning the Jewish community and antisemitism . Housefather has been lobbying for this new summit , behind the scenes and publicly , for months . <p> " I will work very hard at this forum to push for immediate action and solutions across the levels of government and am gratified that my friend and colleague Rachel Bendayan is the new Associate Minister of Public Safety as her position will allow the Jewish community voice to be even more prominent in giving priority to the issue of anti-Jewish hate , " Housefather said in a statement to The CJN . <p> Housefather and the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs have been working with Special Envoy Deborah Lyons to get this new summit approved . As The CJN reported on Dec. 11 , calls for the summit were growing louder in recent weeks . <p> However , according to Richard Marceau , a CIJA vice-president , a summit of words was meaningless unless such a forum focused specifically on policing , law enforcement and prosecutions . <p> " The forum 's ultimate value will be determined only by the concrete results that come from it , " said Marceau , adding that the values of all Canadians are at stake , not just for Jewish Canadians . <p> " Police need more resources and specialized training . Laws need to be enforced , charges need to be laid , and perpetrators must be fully prosecuted to end the domination of our streets by extremists , " he said . " And the glorification of terrorism must finally be made a criminal offence in this country . Through the Forum , we will push for these and other concrete measures -- but what we wo n't accept are photo ops and platitudes . Action to protect our community and all Canadians is long overdue . " <p> Ahead of Friday 's summit announcement , the other Canadian Jewish member of the federal cabinet , Ya'ara Saks , the minister of mental health and addictions , stood in solidarity outside the site of the Bais Chaya Mushka school in North York after it was shot at . <p> Saks told a media conference that no Jewish girl , including her own daughters , should have to wake up every morning and ask whether it is safe to go to school -- although she did n't give away any hints that such a summit announcement was imminent . <p> " The community has been very clear in what needs to be done , " Saks said . " We need all hands on deck , all heads coming together to navigate forward collectively , collaboratively and with one unified voice to ensure that the Jewish community stays safe . <p> " I am hopeful that we will all get together and do the right thing on behalf of the Jewish community . " <p> While full details of the new summit have not been released , its fate could be in jeopardy even before it begins . <p> Although Bendayan and the other cabinet ministers were sworn in officially on Friday , it is unclear how long the Liberal government will remain in power . Efforts are underway by the Opposition Conservatives and New Democrats to topple the government soon , either through a non-confidence motion when Parliament reconvenes on Jan. 27 or sooner . Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre is asking the governor general to force Parliament to come back before sooner than Jan. 27 . <h> Author <h> Support Our Mission : Make a Difference ! <p> The Canadian Jewish News is now a Registered Journalism Organization ( RJO ) as defined by the Canada Revenue Agency . To help support the valuable work we 're doing , we 're asking for individual monthly donations of at least $10 . In exchange , you 'll receive tax receipts , a thank-you gift of our quarterly magazine delivered to your door , and our gratitude for helping continue our mission . If you have any questions about the donating process , please write toemail protected . <h> Support the Media that Speaks to You <p> Jewish Canadians deserve more than social media rumours , adversarial action alerts , and reporting with biases that are often undisclosed . The Canadian Jewish News proudly offers independent national coverage on issues that impact our audience each day , as a conduit for conversations that bridge generations . <p> It 's an outlet you can count on -- but we 're also counting on you . <p> Please support Jewish journalism that 's creative , innovative , and dedicated to breaking new ground to serve your community , while building on media traditions of the past 65 years . As a Registered Journalism Organization , contributions of any size are eligible for a charitable tax receipt .
