<p> Teresa Townsley , the owner of Festina Lente Estate Winery in Langley , B.C. , says a recent email from the B.C. Liquor Distribution Branch ( LDB ) is creating major confusion for small liquor manufacturers as the Goods and Services Tax ( GST ) is slashed on certain products . ( Sohrab Sandhu/CBC - image credit ) <p> A tax holiday on the purchase of many alcoholic drinks may feel like a cause for celebration for those who indulge over the Christmas season -- but for some B.C. wineries and breweries , it 's a different story . <p> The alcohol producers say while the two-month federal tax break could cut costs for consumers , those making the beverages are still having to remit the Goods and Services Tax ( GST ) back to the B.C. Liquor Distribution Branch ( LDB ) . <p> Their concern comes after the LDB sent manufacturers an email saying that , due to the technical risks of implementing complex system changes during the tax holiday , some manufacturers would have to continue remitting GST to the branch . <p> " We understand that manufacturers face many of the same systems challenges as the LDB , and may or may not have the ability to relieve GST , " an email to manufacturers reads . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Thus , there will be no change in the reporting process , and the LDB will be calculating GST on all sales reported in the sales reporting application . " <p> WATCH GST holiday creates ' administrative nightmare ' : <p> Given that the five per cent GST on beer and wine is no longer being charged to consumers , small alcohol manufacturers say they 're facing a 10 per cent shortfall as they 're having to remit the GST out of their own bottom line . <p> " So they 're paying that GST on that product and being billed for that product , but yet are unable to levy that GST in order to recoup that same cost , " said Teresa Townsley , the owner of Festina Lente Estate Winery in Langley , B.C. <p> She 's among the winery and brewery operators asking the LDB for leniency during the two-month tax holiday , especially as they already face a downturn in revenue during the lean winter season . <p> Townsley 's meadery and winery manufactures over a dozen products . Even though her consumers wo n't have to pay the GST , she says manufacturers will still have to remit the GST to the LDB . <p> Townsley 's meadery and winery manufactures over a dozen products . Even though her consumers wo n't have to pay the GST , she says manufacturers will still have to remit the GST to the LDB . ( Sohrab Sandhu/CBC ) <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Townsley 's winery and meadery produces over a dozen products . She says the LDB 's unclear instructions will make tax paperwork very confusing . <p> The winery owner says manufacturers were only notified of the LDB 's intention to continue charging GST the night of Dec. 13 , one day before the tax holiday went into effect -- with the winery already scrambling to implement the tax changes to their cash registers . <p> " I think it was a bit of a nasty little trick to bring this forward when we were definitely distracted trying to upgrade our systems , " she said . <p> The Faculty Brewing Company , which makes a range of beers and kombucha drinks , is seen on East Vancouver 's Ontario Street . <p> The Faculty Brewing Company , which makes a range of beers and kombucha drinks , is seen on East Vancouver 's Ontario Street . ( Sohrab Sandhu/CBC ) <p> Mauricio Lozano , the owner and operator of Vancouver 's Faculty Brewing Company , says he was disappointed to see that the LDB had cited the complexity of changing its systems as the reason it would continue to charge GST . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " The attitude was what I felt was concerning , " he told CBC News . <p> " Because as a small manufacturer , you want to comply . And here you have this very big controlling branch of the liquor distribution just saying , ' Well , our system is too complex . ' " <p> WATCH Some shoppers lukewarm on GST holiday : <p> Lozano estimates he 'll be out at least 20 per cent of his payroll due to the GST shortfall , amounting to thousands of dollars , which is of particular concern given small businesses like his run on credit lines and tight margins . <p> " We 're coming into this low season for liquor manufacturing , which is January and February , " he said . " And so that is definitely a cash concern . " <p> Liquor branch acknowledges impacts <p> In a statement , the LDB said it made all reasonable efforts to comply with the tax holiday , and would work with manufacturers on a case-by-case basis to minimize impacts to cash flow . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Due to risks created when trying to change LDB 's systems for the two months of this program , the LDB will work with industry associations and B.C. manufacturers that direct deliver to mitigate financial impacts , " the statement reads . <p> " At this time , we believe the impacts will be small , but the LDB is continuing to work with industry to learn more . " <p> The B.C. Liquor Distribution Branch has been the target of job action by members of the B.C. General Employees ' Union . <p> The B.C. Liquor Distribution Branch says it will work directly with manufacturers who are affected by the tax changes , and estimates the impact will be small . ( Ben Nelms/CBC ) <p> Lozano is asking the province and Canada Revenue Agency for flexibility when the time comes for audits and tax paperwork , given the confusing nature of the tax holiday rollout . <p> " I think the government should have a lot of leniency and a lot of tolerance for mistakes for people that were n't able to adapt right away , " he said . <h> Latest Stories <p> Some breweries and wineries in B.C. say the GST tax break is causing confusion and anxiety for small business owners , who may still have to pay the tax despite customers being exempt from it . Sohrab Sandhu has more . <p> The federal government 's GST holiday has been in effect for a week and some Toronto businesses say it 's been a challenging transition . Christina Kotiadis , owner of retail store Lemon &amp; Lavender in Bloor West Village , said a big issue has been confusion over which products fall under the tax break . " I 've talked to some other small businesses that carry similar products to me and sometimes we will have two completely different ideas of what we think , " she told CBC Toronto.It 's caused her some anxie <p> Tens of thousands of people gathered in central Belgrade on Sunday to protest against President Aleksandar Vucic and his ruling Serbian Progressive Party ( SNS ) , whom they blame for a railway station roof collapse last month that killed 15 people . The concrete awning of the recently renovated roof of Novi Sad station caved in on Nov. 1 , killing 14 and injuring three . Opposition leaders and the public have taken to the streets repeatedly , blaming the accident on shoddy construction resulting from government corruption and nepotism . <p> Dozens of worshippers gathered in the Holy Family Church in Gaza City as Pizzaballa and other clergy led the Mass . Interspersed throughout the sermons and prayers was the buzzing sound of Israeli drones flying above . <p> Helen Conway Ottenheimer is the PC MHA for Harbour Main . She says government has to support law enforcement organizations through funding . ( Mark Quinn/CBC ) Helen Conway-Ottenheimer , justice critic and PC MHA for the district of Harbour Main says that the shortage of police officers in the province is alarming and poses a threat to residents ' safety and well-being -- especially in rural communities . " The RCMP are struggling to to meet the demands of rural communities , " she said.An access to informatio <p> A slew of Winnipeggers laced up their skates -- some with a sled in tow -- as activities for the season opened at Assiniboine Park on the first day of winter.Families , couples and friends spent quality time outdoors at the park located in central Winnipeg and could be seen building a snowman , speeding down a snow hill on a toboggan or improving their skills on the frozen duck pond that opened to skaters on Saturday . Local resident Daniel Funk bought a new pair of skates for the occasion . " It 's my <p> A car has ploughed into a busy outdoor Christmas market in the German city of Magdeburg , killing at least two people and injuring at least 60 others in what authorities called a deliberate attack . The driver was arrested shortly after the car barrelled into the market at around 7pm , when it was teeming with holiday shoppers looking forward to the weekend . <p> The key defence and foreign affairs portfolios in Syria 's transitional government go to prominent figures in the insurgency that overthrew Bashar al-Assad nearly two weeks ago , tasked with restructing the country 's army and establishing " international relations that bring peace and stability " . Syria 's new rulers appointed Murhaf Abu Qasra , a leading figure in the insurgency that toppled Bashar al-Assad , as defence minister in the interim government , an official source said on Saturday.Abu Qasra , <p> MSNBC host Chris Hayes ripped into Fox News ' Larry Kudlow on Friday night after the latter 's unhinged meltdown over possible delays to tax break legislation . Formerly an economic adviser during President-elect Donald Trump 's first stint in the White House , Kudlow had been chatting with Republican Senators Kevin Cramer and Cynthia Lummis on Thursday about the GOP 's plans once it assumes control of the Senate in January . " Put the tax cuts first . Put together a real reconciliation bill that include <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President Joe Biden on Saturday signed legislation that averts a government shutdown heading into Christmas , bringing a final close to days of upheaval in Washington after Congress passed a bipartisan budget plan just past the deadline and rejected Donald Trump 's core demand in the negotiations . <p> President Biden has signed legislation passed by Congress on Friday to prevent a government shutdown , as questions shift to Speaker Mike Johnson 's future . The government-funding legislation was approved just as the deadline arrived early Saturday , but lawmakers are not disagreeing over whether Johnson should stay on as Speaker . The House will vote on the matter ... <p> The Senate approved a slimmed-down , temporary government spending plan early Saturday morning , averting a shutdown of the federal government . The legislation now goes to President Joe Biden for his signature .
