<h> GoodHeart Leiseth Chambers still on a mission to empower youths <p> For 2025 , Leiseth Chambers , the founder of the charity group ID Pioneers , is committed to expanding her efforts to help Jamaicans , particularly youths across the island , find purpose and their true identity . After completing her master 's degree in the United States nearly a decade ago , Chambers was deeply affected by the Gully versus Gaza conflict among Jamaican youths . Feeling a strong calling to make a difference , she returned to Jamaica to help create positive change . Chambers founded ID Pioneers with her own investment , enlisting the support of her faith community , co-workers and friends to help build the charity . <p> After dedicating seven years of her time and energy to ID Pioneers , Chambers decided to take a break in 2024 with plans to return in 2025 . With the new year just around the corner , she is now excited to resume her work . <p> " We were operating for seven years and 2023 was our most significant year , where we reached over 800 youths and over 100 workers . That was a milestone year for us , and , of course , one would think that you are now ready to go , but we are a spirit-led organisation , and so any decision that we are taking , we take those decisions with God 's guidance , and seeking God , and all of a sudden , we 're hearing rest ; we 're hearing reset ; we 're hearing strengthening the foundations , strengthening those things that exist . And , we realised that the more we reflected on it was the more we realised that there was more wisdom in it , " Chambers told GoodHeart . <p> She added , " We needed to assess our sustainability systems . For the first seven years , all the services that we offered were at no cost . We needed to look at the current programmes and also assess how much the programmes are effective in meeting the needs of the youths . We needed to scale back with a view to launch even further , so you 're going slow now with a view to be able to go faster later . We realised that in order to be in operation for the long haul , we need to be able to be sustainable . " <p> Chambers is now aiming to expand ID Pioneers ' offerings to include mentorship programmes for groups willing to pay for the service . She emphasises that sustaining the charity requires funding , which is necessary to continue helping those in need . Over the past seven years , Chambers focused on mentoring youths in Jamaica 's children 's homes . Many of these youths graduated and later contributed to mentoring others . Chambers is proud of the impact she has had , transforming lives for the better . <h> Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox <p> " Everybody has this basic need to understand who they are and why they are here on Earth . There is this need for meaning and I think about Generation Alpha , the millennial and Generation Z who are generations that are driven by meaning and more purpose-driven careers , the idea was to expand the offerings . I realised that the world we are living in , one that is described as a VUCA -- Volatile , Uncertain , Complex and Ambiguous -- means that there is much that we need to change in order to navigate the difficulties of the environment that we 're in . " <p> Chambers pointed out that even during the pandemic , she persisted , inspiring youths in need through online sessions and training . Many of the young people she mentored went on to become mentors themselves . <p> " During the COVID pandemic , our team remained resolute and through their resilience , we were able to serve over 100 through our COVID-19 Link Up Series and our mastermind challenge . Empowering them with a sense of hope and purpose and supporting them to have a solution-oriented mindset and an optimistic outlook on life during the difficult time , " she explained . <p> In the children 's homes over the years , she tried her utmost to spread the message of " identity and purpose " which will remain the foundation of ID Pioneers . <p> " At my core , it is purpose and wanting to support individuals to understand they need to put priority around purpose . At ID Pioneers , we are proud to be a Jamaican organisation that is in service to its fellow citizens . Our intention has always been to be able to offer services of identity , purpose fulfilment , planning , life styling , coaching , training , mentoring services to individuals , " Chambers said . <p> She has words of advice for youths who feel like their world is shattered . <p> " It does not matter what your background is . It does not matter what your experience is , because that does not define you . It is an experience , but it does not shape who you are . In fact , when you were created , your manufacturer , who is God , would have put a brand on you ; his brand , which says you are loved and accepted and chosen and special and unique and you are fearfully and wonderfully made , " she said . <p> Persons interested in becoming mentors with ID Pioneers can connect with them through their Instagram page via the handle @idpioneers .
