<p> Some breweries and wineries in B.C. say the GST tax break is causing confusion and anxiety for small business owners , who may still have to pay the tax despite customers being exempt from it . Sohrab Sandhu has more . <h> Latest Stories <p> A tax holiday on the purchase of many alcoholic drinks may feel like a cause for celebration for those who indulge over the Christmas season -- but for some B.C. wineries and breweries , it 's a different story.The alcohol producers say while the two-month federal tax break could cut costs for consumers , those making the beverages are still having to remit the Goods and Services Tax ( GST ) back to the B.C. Liquor Distribution Branch ( LDB ) . Their concern comes after the LDB sent manufacturers an email <p> The federal government 's GST holiday has been in effect for a week and some Toronto businesses say it 's been a challenging transition . Christina Kotiadis , owner of retail store Lemon &amp; Lavender in Bloor West Village , said a big issue has been confusion over which products fall under the tax break . " I 've talked to some other small businesses that carry similar products to me and sometimes we will have two completely different ideas of what we think , " she told CBC Toronto.It 's caused her some anxie <p> Tens of thousands of people gathered in central Belgrade on Sunday to protest against President Aleksandar Vucic and his ruling Serbian Progressive Party ( SNS ) , whom they blame for a railway station roof collapse last month that killed 15 people . The concrete awning of the recently renovated roof of Novi Sad station caved in on Nov. 1 , killing 14 and injuring three . Opposition leaders and the public have taken to the streets repeatedly , blaming the accident on shoddy construction resulting from government corruption and nepotism . <p> Dozens of worshippers gathered in the Holy Family Church in Gaza City as Pizzaballa and other clergy led the Mass . Interspersed throughout the sermons and prayers was the buzzing sound of Israeli drones flying above . <p> A second man has been arrested in connection with the disappearance of a 36-year-old Cape Breton man that police have called a homicide.In a news release issued late Saturday , Cape Breton Regional Police said Ryan Joseph Pike has been charged with second-degree murder and robbery . He was arrested in Reserve Mines , N.S. , on Friday.Kenneth Justin MacDonald , who goes by Justin , went missing in July . Cape Breton Regional Police labelled the case a homicide last month.Earlier this month , police arres <p> While we all deal with grief and loss at some point in our lives , it can be particularly challenging for children to process . A woman from Wingham , Ont. , has published a novel about navigating grief in childhood . Always Kiss Me Good Night , by Deborah Dickson , is about the loss of a loved one . It follows the true story of her own loss in order to help children and their parents have difficult conversations about grief.Dickson , a first-time author , spoke with CBC K-W 's The Morning Edition host Cra <p> Helen Conway Ottenheimer is the PC MHA for Harbour Main . She says government has to support law enforcement organizations through funding . ( Mark Quinn/CBC ) Helen Conway-Ottenheimer , justice critic and PC MHA for the district of Harbour Main says that the shortage of police officers in the province is alarming and poses a threat to residents ' safety and well-being -- especially in rural communities . " The RCMP are struggling to to meet the demands of rural communities , " she said.An access to informatio <p> Visitors of Pennsylvania 's Capitol are drawn to its priceless artwork , polished marble and intricate carvings , but hidden behind the doors of offices and chambers are another treasure : hundreds of antique clocks that are still need to be wound by hand . ( AP Video : Tassanee Vejpongsa ) <p> From a train bridge in Regina to gingerbread houses in a Swift Current hospital , here are some of the past week 's best photos from the CBC Saskatchewan newsroom.Saskatoon mayor Cynthia Block stands next to homelessness advocate David Fineday at a rally that was held outside Saskatoon city hall on Wednesday . ( Halyna Mihalik/CBC ) Advocates for the homeless rallied outside Saskatoon city hall on a frigid day . Mayor Cynthia Block met the protestors and addressed the crowd . Last week , the city reveale <p> " Beauty is in the eye of the beholder " is a saying that 's a real thing . Quite simply , what you find appealing , I might not . It used to be a little easier to understand , but then internet trolls came around . But there 's another saying that 's a real thing , too : People are ...
