<h> Pope has a cold and will skip outdoor Sunday prayer ahead of a busy week <p> ROME ( AP ) -- Pope Francis is suffering from a cold and will deliver his Sunday blessing from indoors , the Vatican said , announcing the precautions ahead of a busy Christmas period and launch of the Holy Year that will sorely test Francis ' stamina and health . <p> Francis , who turned 88 this past week , on Tuesday is due to inaugurate his big Holy Year and preside over Christmas Eve and Christmas Day celebrations in St. Peter 's Basilica . On Thursday , he is scheduled to travel to Rome 's main prison to inaugurate the Jubilee there . <p> Francis has long suffered bouts of bronchitis , especially in winter . In 2023 , he ended up the hospital to receive intravenous antibiotics . He had part of one lung removed as a young man and frequently seems out of breath , especially after walking or exerting himself . <p> He took several minutes to catch his breath on Saturday , when he delivered his annual Christmas greetings to Vatican bureaucrats and lay employees . Once again , he used the occasion to admonish the backstabbing and gossiping among his closest collaborators and urge them instead to speak well of one another . <p> " A church community lives in joyful and fraternal harmony to the extent that its members walk in the life of humility , renouncing evil thinking and speaking ill of others , " Francis said . " Gossip is an evil that destroys social life , sickens people 's hearts and leads to nothing . The people say it very well : Gossip is zero . " <p> " Beware of this , " he added . <p> By now Francis ' annual Christmas address to the priests , bishops and cardinals who work in the Vatican Curia has become a lesson in humility - -- and humilitation -- as Francis offers a public dressing down of some of the sins in the workplace at the headquarters of the Catholic Church . <p> In the most biting edition , in 2014 , Francis listed the " 15 ailments of the Curia , " in which he accused the prelates of using their Vatican careers to grab power and wealth . He accused them of living " hypocritical " double lives and forgetting -- due to " spiritual Alzheimer 's " -- that they 're supposed to be joyful men of God . <p> In 2022 , Francis warned them that the devil lurks among them , saying it is an " elegant demon " that works in people who have a rigid , holier-than-thou way of living the Catholic faith . <p> This year , Francis revisited a theme he has often warned about : gossiping and speaking ill of people behind their backs . It was a reference to the sometimes toxic atmosphere in closed environments such as the Vatican or workplaces where office gossip and criticism circulate but are rarely aired in public . <p> Francis has long welcomed frank and open debates and even has welcomed criticism of his own work . But he has urged critics to tell it to his face , and not behind his back . <p> Francis opened his address Saturday with a reminder of the devastation of the war in Gaza , where he said even his patriarch had been unable to enter due to Israeli bombing . <p> " Yesterday children have been bombed . This is cruelty , this is not war , " he said . <p> The annual appointment kicks off Francis ' busy Christmas schedule , this year made even more strenuous because of the start of the Vatican 's Holy Year on Christmas Eve . The Jubilee is expected to bring some 32 million pilgrims to Rome over 2025 , and Francis has a dizzying calendar of events to minister to them . <p> A gentler message for lay employees <p> After addressing the Vatican prelates , Francis issued a less critical address to the Vatican 's lay employees who gathered in the city state 's main audience hall along with their families . Francis thanked them for their service and urged them to make sure they take time to play with their children and visit grandparents . <p> " If you have any particular problems , tell your bosses , we want to resolve them , " he added at the end . " You do this with dialogue , not by keeping quiet . Together we 'll try to resolve the difficulties . " <p> It was an apparent reference to reports of growing unease within the Vatican workforce that has been called out by the Association of Vatican Lay Employees , the closest thing the Vatican has to a labor union . The association has in recent months voiced alarm about the health of the Vatican pension system and fears of even more cost-cutting , and demanded the Vatican leadership listen to workers ' concerns .
