<p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau looks on at the start of a cabinet swearing in ceremony for Dominic LeBlanc , not shown , as Finance Minister at Rideau Hall in Ottawa on Dec. 16 , 2024 . ( Justin Tang/The Canadian Press - image credit ) <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's annual Christmas message encourages Canadians to give thanks for " all that is good in the world " and check in on those who have not had an easy time this year . <p> " As we reflect on the past year and look to the future , let us continue to show love and kindness -- to ourselves and to those in need , " Trudeau said in a statement accompanying his pre-recorded statement , released Tuesday at a time when his own political future remains uncertain . <p> He also gave thanks to the " brave " members of the Canadian Armed Forces , first responders , essential workers and volunteers . <p> The annual message comes during a vulnerable time in his leadership and as the Liberal leader is believed to be reflecting on his political future . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In the week since Chrystia Freeland 's sudden resignation from cabinet , as deputy prime minister and finance minister , calls for the prime minister to resign have echoed across the country . To date , 21 Liberal MPs have publicly called on Trudeau to go . <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau looks on at the start of a cabinet swearing in ceremony for Dominic LeBlanc , not shown , as Finance Minister at Rideau Hall in Ottawa on Dec. 16 , 2024 . <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau looks on at the start of a cabinet swearing-in ceremony for Dominic LeBlanc , not shown , as finance minister , at Rideau Hall in Ottawa on Dec. 16 . ( Justin Tang/The Canadian Press ) <p> At a virtual meeting of the Ontario Liberal caucus on Saturday morning , more than 50 Liberal MPs came to a consensus that Trudeau needs to step down as party leader , multiple sources told CBC News . <p> The prime minister has not addressed Canadians about the growing calls for him to step aside or spoken publicly about Freeland 's resignation . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Trudeau stopped briefly to speak to reporters following a cabinet meeting on Friday . <p> Offering that it was an " excellent " meeting , " almost entirely focused on the Canada-U.S. dynamic , " he did not answer any questions about the future of his leadership . " We have a lot of work to do and that 's what we 're focused on , " he said . <p> WATCH PM addresses media for first time since Freeland 's resignation : <p> CBC 's Poll Tracker suggests a widening lead for the Conservatives , comfortably ahead of the Liberals by more than 23 points . <p> Read the prime minister 's full Christmas statement below . <p> Prime minister 's Christmas message <p> " Merry Christmas , everyone ! This is such a special time of year . A time to gather with loved ones , to celebrate the spirit of the season , and to give thanks for all that is good in the world . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " For Christians , it 's a time to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ and think about his story of kindness , forgiveness , and faith . The lessons of his life are universal , and they inspire and comfort people every time they 're told -- and retold . <p> " For you , the holidays may be a time of big family gatherings and feasts , of gifts and celebrations . But maybe it 's a very hard time . If you 're grieving , worried , or alone , this can be the toughest time of the year . It can be the loneliest . So let 's all check in on the people in our lives who have not had an easy time this year , and who may need us more than we know . <p> " As we reflect on the past year and look to the future , let us continue to show love and kindness -- to ourselves and to those in need . Let us also take a moment to thank those who give so much of themselves to make Canada the place we are proud to call home , including the brave members of our Canadian Armed Forces , the dedicated first responders and essential workers , and the countless volunteers . Thank you , to all of you . <p> " I wish joy to everyone who is celebrating today , and comfort to those who are suffering . Wherever you are , I hope you find light and hope for the year ahead . Merry Christmas . " <h> Latest Stories <p> OTTAWA ( Reuters ) -The head of a Canadian political party that has been keeping Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in power says he will vote in favor of a motion of no-confidence , effectively assuring the Liberals will be removed from power early next year . Trudeau has been under increasing pressure to quit since Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland resigned over a policy clash . If Trudeau resigns , the Liberals will name an interim leader to take over as prime minister while the party sets up a special leadership convention . <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has survived a week of political chaos that saw Chrystia Freeland resign from his cabinet , and all main opposition parties now vowing to topple his government . But the pressure on Trudeau to resign continues to build -- this time from Ontario 's Liberal MPs , who make up 60 per cent of the Liberal caucus . In a teleconference yesterday , they reached what 's being described as a " clear consensus " that Trudeau must go . David Akin has more . <p> Four heli-skiers and their guide had to be rescued after an avalanche buried them near Pemberton , B.C. , north of Whistler on Monday , according to RCMP.Whistler RCMP said they first received reports of an avalanche at 11:30 a.m . PT in the Ipsoot Mountain area , in a backcountry ski area called " The Meadow . " Police say a group in the area from Whistler Heli-Skiing faced a human-triggered avalanche , and four of them were fully buried and one was partially buried.RCMP Const . Antoine Graebling says the <p> The US Food and Drug Administration on Monday approved a generic version of the daily injectable GLP-1 medicine liraglutide for people with type 2 diabetes , opening the door for lower-priced options to reach the market and help address a shortage . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's onetime national security adviser warns that his former boss returning to the White House will significantly increase the risk of " an international crisis . " John Bolton -- who served as Trump 's national security adviser for 17 months from April 2018 to September 2019 -- dismissed the president-elect 's claims that he is uniquely positioned to resolve international conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza in an interview with The Guardian . He called it " typical Trump : it 's all bragga <p> Sean " Diddy " Combs has been sued by a former male employee claiming that Combs pressured him into having sex with a woman and instructed him to cater to what Combs referred to as " Wild King Nights , " where the mogul engaged in evenings of sex and drug use . Attorneys for Phillip Pines filed the suit against ... <p> Fox News 's Brian Kilmeade estimated Monday that Greenland could cost some $1.5 trillion , after President-elect Trump said earlier this week the U.S. owning the country " is an absolute necessity . " " It 's gon na cost about 1.5 trillion , but it 'll probably will pay off , " Kilmeade said on " Jesse Watters Primetime " while talking with Republican National Committee ( RNC ) Chair ... <p> More than 1,000 North Korean soldiers were killed or injured on the battlefield since Pyongyang sent troops to back Russia 's offensive in Ukraine , South Korean military officials said Monday . More than 1,000 North Korean soldiers have been killed or wounded in Russia 's war with Ukraine , South Korea 's Joint Chiefs of Staff ( JCS ) said on Monday.The new figure follows a report by Seoul 's spy agency to MPs last week , which said at least 100 North Korean soldiers had been killed since entering combat <p> In a letter sent on Dec. 19 , Alberta Premier Danielle Smith asks Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for several assurances related to Jasper 's wildfire recovery . Those requests include expanding Jasper 's town boundaries and clearing more trees inside Jasper National Park . Smith has requested a response by Jan. 6 . The CBC 's Acton Clarkin has more .
