<p> The riots , which caused an international outcry and accusations of deliberate antisemitic attacks , left 5 people in hospital and 20 others with minor injuries . More than 60 suspects were detained . <p> The court on Tuesday sentenced one man to six months in prison , another to two and half months , two to one month in jail and one to 100 hours of community service . <p> A series of violent incidents took place between pro-Palestinian demonstrators and Israeli soccer fans around the soccer match . <p> Some of the violence was condemned as antisemitic , with Israel 's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu offering to evacuate Maccabi supporters . The violence , which garnered headlines worldwide , damaged Amsterdam 's reputation as a beacon of tolerance and haven for persecuted religions , including Jews . <p> " It seems that the violence arose from strong pro-Palestine sentiments and dissatisfaction with the situation in Gaza , and related anger against the Israelis present , " the prosecutors ' office said in a statement at the conclusion of hearings two weeks ago . <p> The five defendants , aged between 19 and 32 , were accused of public violence , theft and assault . <p> The Nov. 8 game was allowed to go ahead after The Netherlands ' counter-terror watchdog found there was no " concrete threat " to Israeli fans , and the match was n't considered a high risk . Even so , Amsterdam authorities banned a pro-Palestinian demonstration outside the Johan Cruyff Arena . <p> According to an investigation , the day before the game the authorities reported several incidents , including Israeli fans tearing a Palestinian flag from an Amsterdam building and attacking a cab . In response , taxi drivers sought to mobilize online , centring on a casino where some 400 Israeli fans were gathered . Police were mobilized to avoid a major confrontation . <p> Story continues below advertisement <p> Six more suspects will have their trials at a later date , including three minors . Under Dutch rules , proceedings for juveniles are held behind closed doors . Police are continuing to investigate the violence and have released images of several suspects they hope to identify .
