<p> Famine is spreading in Sudan due to a war between the military and a notorious paramilitary group that has devastated the country and created the world 's largest displacement crisis , a global hunger monitoring group said Tuesday . <p> The Integrated Food Security Phase Classification , or IPC , said it detected famine in five areas , including in Sudan 's largest displacement camp , Zamzam , in North Darfur province , where famine was found for the first time in August . <p> The report said the war has triggered unprecedented mass displacement and a collapsing economy . It said hostilities can result in farmers abandoning their crops , looting and stock destruction . <p> Along with the Zamzam camp , which has more than 400,000 people , famine was also detected in two other camps for displaced people , Abu Shouk and al-Salam in North Darfur , and the Western Nuba Mountains , the IPC report said . <p> Five other areas in North Darfur are projected " with reasonable evidence " to experience famine in the next six months , including el-Fasher , the provincial capital of North Darfur , it said . Seventeen areas in the Nuba Mountains and the northern and southern areas of Darfur are at risk of famine , it added . <p> The report also said some areas in the capital , Khartoum , and the east-central province of Gezira " may be experiencing " famine-like conditions . It said experts were unable to confirm whether famine threshold has been surpassed due to lack of data . <p> " It is not merely a lack of food but a profound breakdown of health , livelihoods and social structures , leaving entire communities in a state of desperation , " it said . <p> There is widespread hunger , with food in markets scarce and prices high . Aid groups say they struggle to reach the most vulnerable as warring parties limit access , especially in North Darfur province . <p> Ahead of the IPC 's report , Sudan 's government said it had suspended its participation in the global monitoring system , according to a senior United Nations official with knowledge of the move . <p> In a letter dated Dec. 23 , Agriculture Minister Abu Baker al-Beshri accused the IPC of " issuing unreliable reports that undermine Sudan 's sovereignty and dignity , " said the UN official , who spoke in condition of anonymity to discuss the letter . <p> Sudan 's 20-month war has killed more than 24,000 people and driven over 14 million people -- about 30 per cent of the population -- from their homes , according to the United Nations . An estimated 3.2 million Sudanese have crossed into neighbouring countries including Chad , Egypt and South Sudan . <p> The war began in April 2023 when tensions between its military and paramilitary Rapid Support Forces exploded into fighting in Khartoum before spreading to other areas . The conflict has been marked by atrocities including ethnically motivated killing and rape , according to the UN and rights groups . The International Criminal Court is investigating alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity . <p> Dervla Cleary , a senior emergency and rehabilitation officer at the UN 's Food and Agriculture Organization , said 638,000 people are experiencing famine . <p> " The situation in Sudan is just awful . It is unacceptable in a world like today , " she said . <p> The IPC report called for a ceasefire , calling it the only way to reduce the risk of famine spreading further . " Sudan is the third country where famine was declared in the past 15 years , along with South Sudan and Somalia . <p> The IPC comprises more than a dozen UN agencies , aid groups and governments that use its monitoring as a global reference for analysis of food and nutrition crises . The organization has also warned that large parts of Gaza 's Palestinian population face the threat of famine .
