<p> VANCOUVER -- Online predators are becoming increasingly resourceful in trolling media platforms where children gravitate , prompting an explosion in police case loads , said an officer who works for the RCMP Integrated Child Exploitation Unit in British Columbia . <p> Data show the problem spiked during COVID-19 when children began spending more time online -- but rates did not wane as police anticipated after lockdowns ended . <p> In B.C. , they soared , almost quadrupling from 2021 to 2023 . <p> Const . Solana Pare is now warning exploitation of children is likely here to stay , as a technological race between police and predators gains momentum . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " Technology is becoming more and more available , and online platforms and social media sites are being used by children younger and younger , which provides an opportunity for predators to connect with them , " Pare said in an interview . <p> Police say child exploitation cases in B.C. went from about 4,600 in 2021 to 9,600 in 2022 to 15,920 reports last year . <p> The upwards trend is seen nationally , too . Statistics Canada says the rate of online child sexual exploitation reported to police rose by 58 per cent from 2019 to 2022 , and police data show cases have continued to rise . <p> The RCMP 's National Child Exploitation Crime Centre reported that from April 1 , 2023 , to March 31 , 2024 , it received 118,162 reports of suspected online child sexual exploitation offences -- a 15 per cent increase compared with the previous year . <p> Online child sexual exploitation , Pare explained , includes offences such as sextortion , child luring and the creation or distribution of sexually explicit images of a minor . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " We do n't see these types of reports going away , " Pare said . " We only see them increasing because the use of electronic devices and social media , and kids being online earlier and earlier is becoming more common . There 's going to be more opportunity for predators to target children online . " <p> Monique St. Germain , general counsel for the Canadian Centre for Child Protection , said the most common type of child luring is communicating with a youth online in order get them to produce sexual abuse material . She said " the pandemic accelerated those types of cases , and it has n't slowed down . " <p> " The tools ( Canadian authorities ) have to deal with this type of behaviour are inadequate for the scope and the scale of what 's going on , " she said . <p> THE RISE OF ' SEXTORTION ' <p> Online exploitation gained international attention in 2015 in the case of Port Coquitlam , B.C. , teenager , Amanda Todd , who died by suicide after being blackmailed and harassed online by a man for years , starting when she was 12 . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The month before the 15-year-old died , she uploaded a nine-minute video using a series of flash cards detailing the abuse she experienced by the stranger and how it had affected her life . It 's been viewed millions of times . <p> Dutch national Aydin Coban was extradited to Canada for trial and , in August 2022 , he was convicted of charges including the extortion and harassment of Todd . <p> Since then , the term " sextortion " has made its way into the vernacular as more cases come to light . <p> Among them was Carson Cleland , a 12-year-old Prince George , B.C. , boy who died by suicide in October 2023 after falling victim to the crime . In New Brunswick that same month , 16-year-old William Doiron took his own life after falling victim to a global sextortion scheme . <p> Mounties across Canada have issued news releases warning of increased cases in their communities , noting that the consequences for the victims can include self-harm and suicide . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> St. Germain said technology , such as artificial intelligence , is also becoming more user-friendly . <p> " The existence of that technology and its ease of use and ready accessibility is a problem , and it is going to be an increasingly large problem as we move forward , " she said . <p> Pare said police are also adapting to technological advancements in order to keep up with the ever-changing online landscape . <p> " Police are constantly obtaining training on digital technologies to increase our knowledge and understanding of all the intricacies involving their use and how to capture any digital evidence , " she said . <p> Pare said the true rates of the crime are impossible to determine , but pointed to increased social awareness and legislation across North America around mandatory reporting of child abuse material from social media companies as a potential reason for the increase . <p> It 's not going undetected any longer , she said . <p> " Additionally , there 's been a lot of use in artificial intelligence to detect child exploitation materials within those platforms . " <p> Pare said " it 's up to each individual platform " to ensure there is no child sexual abuse material on their sites or apps . <p> " With mandatory reporting , it 's putting the onus back on the electronic service providers to ensure they have measures in place to prevent this from happening , and if it is happening that it is being reported , " she said . " That being said , there are times when things do n't get located . " <p> That is why the Canadian Centre for Child Protection has been advocating for the adoption of the Online Harms Bill that the federal government introduced in February , St. Germain said . <p> " It 's shocking that up until now , we 've relied on companies to self regulate , meaning we 've just relied on them to do the right thing , " she said . <p> " What we are seeing in terms of the number of offences and in terms of all the harm that is happening in society as a result of online platforms is completely tied to the decision not to regulate . We need to have rules in any sector , and this sector is no different . " <p> ' CANADA IS REALLY BEHIND ' <p> The Online Harms Bill covers seven types of harms , from non-consensual sharing of intimate images to content that can be used to bully a child . <p> Earlier this month , Justice Minister Arif Virani announced the Liberal government will split the bill into two parts : dealing with keeping children safe online , and combating predators and issues related to revenge pornography . <p> " We are putting our emphasis and prioritization and our time and efforts on the first portion of the bill , " Virani told reporters on Dec. 5 . <p> Such measures would include a new Digital Safety Commission of Canada , which would compel social media companies to outline how they plan to reduce the risks their platforms pose to users , particularly minors . It would have the power to levy fines and evaluate companies ' digital safety plans . <p> St. Germain said such a split " makes sense , " noting that most objections to the bill are related to changes to the Criminal Code and not measures around curbing harms to children . <p> " There obviously are differences of opinion in terms of what is the best way forward , and what kind of regulatory approach makes sense , and who should the regulator be , but there does seem to be consensus on the idea that we need to do more in terms of protecting children online , " she said , adding that the organization is still in support of the second half of the bill . <p> She said the United Kingdom previously passed its own Online Safety Act that will come into effect in 2025 , which includes requiring social media firms to protect children from content such as self-harm material , pornography and violent content . Failure to do so will result in fines . <p> " Canada is really behind , " she said . " The amount of information that has come out of the U.K. , the amount of time and care and attention that their legislatures have paid to this issue is really quite remarkable , and we really hope that Canada steps up and does something for Canadian children soon . " <p> In the absence of national legislation , province 's have filled the void . <p> In January , B.C. enacted the Intimate Images Protection Act , providing a path for victims to have online photos , videos or deep fakes expeditiously removed . Individuals are fined up to $500 per day and websites up to $5,000 a day if they do n't comply with orders to stop distributing images that are posted without consent . <p> B.C. 's Ministry of the Attorney General said that as of Dec. 11 , the Civil Resolution Tribunal had received a total of 199 disputes under the Intimate Images Protection Act . <p> It said the Intimate Images Protection Service had served more than 240 clients impacted by the non-consensual distribution of intimate images , adding that four awards of $5,000 each and one for $3,000 had been supplied as of mid-December . <h> Latest Stories <p> When you think of pigeons , you might conjure up images of grey speckled birds pecking bits of food off city streets . But there 's a lot more to the feathered flock . In fact , some pigeons are quite fancy , according to Gary Parsons -- and he would know.The veteran pigeon breeder from Sarnia , Ont. , can boast of having the top show pigeon in the country , for now . His helmet pigeon was crowned grand champion pigeon at the Canadian Pigeon Fancier 's National Show in January in Portage la Prairie , Man . No <p> Earlier this year , Anicka Quin had to make the decision no pet owner is ever ready to make -- but she knew it was time to say goodbye to her 18-year-old tabby , Zoe . Having been through the process before , Quin made it a priority this time to find a compassionate veterinarian who would come to her home and make it all a bit more comfortable for both her and her cat . " That first vet did come to the house , but it was a night-and-day process , " she said . " They just showed up . They did the process , a <p> The kids are out of school , the spouse is off work and you 're wondering how to keep the family busy . Or maybe you 're alone for the holidays -- just you , your flannel pyjamas and a big bowl of popcorn.Either way , the Charlottetown and Summerside libraries have your back.They are offering binge boxes , filled with films or TV shows that will fill hours of your -- or their -- time . " It 's just nice to do that whole binge thing , to sit down on the weekend and get your TV or movie fix on , " said Beth Clinto <p> With Christmas in the rearview mirror and January just around the corner , many Saskatchewanians are beginning to box up their Christmas trimmings . But many holiday decorations and disposable dishware often end up in landfills.So , what can you recycle , and what ca n't you ? Joanne Fedyk , executive director of the Saskatchewan Waste Reduction Council , said some items are easy to get out of the house . But others are not recycling-friendly.Plain or glossy wrapping paper -- anything you can tear -- can us <p> A diplomat 's job is a delicate , challenging one that happens mainly behind closed doors . On this holiday episode of ' The West Block ' , we look behind the curtain at what that role entails with Britain 's Deputy High Commissioner to Canada . David Prodger reveals the reality of global diplomacy in this highly charged , political environment . <p> New York Attorney General Letitia James on Friday released what she described as " shocking and disturbing " footage from body-worn cameras of correctional officers showing the fatal beating of an inmate at the Marcy Correctional Facility in upstate New York . <p> Israeli forces have detained the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital -- the last major health facility in northern Gaza -- for interrogation alongside dozens of other medical staff , the health ministry in the Hamas-run enclave said Saturday . The WHO has said that the hospital has been put out of service by an Israeli raid . Gaza health officials and the WHO said Saturday that an Israeli military raid targeting Hamas militants has forced a major hospital in northern Gaza out of service and led to the d <p> Two adults died and a child is in critical condition after a head-on collision occurred on Saturday afternoon in Sainte-Hyacinthe , Que . At around 3:30 p.m. , a vehicle with a driver and three passengers collided with another vehicle , according to the S ? ret ? du Qu ? bec ( SQ ) . The incident took place on a curve of Route 235 -- also known as rang Saint-Andr ? -- near de la Grande-Ligne Road.SQ spokesperson ? lizabeth Marquis said the driver of the first vehicle , a man in his late 40s , was pronounced dead <p> Photos of missing Syrians cover the marble base of a bronze column in Damascus ' Marjeh Square as relatives desperately search for information about their loved ones . At the base of the monument , hundreds of photos of missing people are labelled with mobile phone numbers of relatives , in case anyone has information . ( AP video by Omar Albam ) <p> It should n't be too much to ask of his fellow Islanders , Patrick Straw says.If you eat fast food in your car , do n't throw the wrappers out the windowWhen you finish your pop , do n't throw the can in the ditch.Take it home . Find a trash can . Recycle it.Just please do n't litter . " It 's not world-changing , " he said . " It 's just stopping garbage . That 's all we want to do . " Yet every week , Straw and others in his South Shore , P.E.I. , community are out picking up other people 's garbage . It 's become so frus <p> U.S. billionaire Elon Musk drew criticism from German politicians from the government and opposition on Sunday for an opinion piece he wrote backing the right-wing Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) which they deemed " intrusive " outside influence . The support of the AfD from Musk , who is set to serve U.S. President-elect Donald Trump 's administration as an outside adviser , comes as Germans are set to vote on Feb. 23 after a coalition government led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz collapsed . The commentary published in German in the Welt am Sonntag newspaper , flagship of the Axel Springer media group , expanded on a post by Musk on social media platform X last week in which he wrote " only the AfD can save Germany " and praised the party 's approach to regulation , taxes and market deregulation . <p> Firefighters in Edmonton have been awarded a retroactive deal with the city after five years without a contract . The Edmonton Fire Fighters ' Union represents around 1,308 workers in positions like fire prevention , fire operations , fire investigation , emergency response communications , fire training , logistics , and fleet services . It represents all firefighters below the rank of deputy chief . The interest arbitration board awarded the contract on Dec. 4 . The previous collective agreement expired <p> If you doubt , simply look back at the last year : From SpaceX 's historic catch of the Super Heavy booster to the record-breaking number of lunar landing attempts , this year was full of historic and ambitious missions and demonstrations . Naysayers might think SpaceX is overrepresented on this list , but that just shows how far ahead the space behemoth is in relation to its competitors . NASA and Boeing no doubt had high hopes when the Starliner vehicle lifted off for its first crewed test mission in June . <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Newly released video of a fatal New York prison beating shows correctional officers repeatedly pummeling a handcuffed man , striking him in the chest with a shoe , and lifting him by the neck and dropping him . <p> Afghanistan 's Taliban leader has ordered that new residential buildings are constructed without windows looking onto " places usually used by women " and said that existing windows with such views should be blocked to prevent " obscene acts " . The Taliban 's supreme leader has issued an order banning the construction of windows in residential buildings that overlook areas used by Afghan women and saying that existing ones should be blocked.According to a statement released late Saturday by the Taliba
