<h> Breaking down the Ukraine and Mideast wars in 2024 <p> Palestinian Manal al-Hasoumi , eight , feeds cats leftover food next to her family 's tent , which is locally made from pieces of cloth and nylon , at a camp for internally displaced Palestinians on the beachfront in Deir al-Balah , central Gaza Strip , last Friday . <p> For the world , 2024 was riven by -- and in some ways defined by -- conflict on two fronts . <p> The ripples after the previous year 's Hamas attacks in Israel left Gaza a shambles and tens of thousands dead , and an adjacent conflict between Israel and Hezbollah is playing out across the Lebanon landscape as the year ends . <p> A continent away , the Russia-Ukraine war , which began with Russia 's invasion in early 2022 , rages on and evolves , claiming more casualties as it goes . <p> Associated Press journalists have been covering these conflicts since they began . Now , as 2024 ends and a new year begins , we asked two veteran AP reporters -- Josef Federman in Jerusalem and Samya Kullab in Kyiv -- to talk about what they saw the past year and what struck them . Here are their accounts : <h> Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox <h> JOSEF FEDERMAN , news director , Israel/Palestinian territories/Jordan <p> ON REGIONAL IMPLICATIONS : There 's a shift going on . There are these two blocs in the Middle East . You have Iran and its allies , and then you have the pro-western Arab countries and Israel . The Iranians ' allies include Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis in Yemen , Assad 's government in Syria . Now you see all of this falling apart . October 7 , 2023 triggered this chain reaction across the region . And what we 've seen is that the Iran bloc as a whole is collapsing before our eyes . So what Hamas had hoped to do , if you go back and you look at what they said on October 7 , 2023 , they were expecting the entire Middle East to kind of rise up against Israel with them . And the only one that really did it was Hezbollah in Lebanon . Some of these other Iranian-backed groups kind of joined in . But what you 've seen over this past year is that Israel has been dismantling Hamas . Hamas still exists at a very low level , but it is nothing close to what it was , and it probably never will be again . So it has dismantled Hamas in Gaza . And it struck a very tough blow to Hezbollah as well . <p> IMPACT ON HEZBOLLAH : For years , the Israelis built up Hezbollah as like the boogeyman . They said , " Oh , Hamas is a walk in the park compared to what we 're going to deal with Hezbollah . " And people were really dreading that second front opening up . And then it really boiled over into a full-fledged war over the summer . And then Israel moved in and sent ground troops into Lebanon . And it delivered , not as hard hit as what it did to Hamas , but a body blow to Hezbollah as well . Israel assassinated Hassan Nasrallah. who was this very charismatic figure who led the group for 30 years . It killed nearly all of the group 's top leaders . And the exploding pager incident was more psychological than anything -- hundreds of Hezbollah members suddenly are afraid to look at their phones and use their devices after these mysterious explosions . It just shows how far Israel infiltrated this group . <p> HOW SYRIA FITS IN : There 's a clear connection here . Israel struck a blow to Iran 's allies , and then these rebels in Syria saw weakness . Once Hezbollah caved , within days they were moving across Syria . And within a week or two , Assad had been toppled -- after his family was in power for half a century . And the reason Syria was so important was it was the main route for Hezbollah to rearm . The arms would be transferred through Syria across the Lebanese border . That option does n't exist anymore . So what was already fragmentation has become even more fragmented . And now Syria is no longer an arms smuggling route to Hezbollah , so Hezbollah is also not going to be the same threat . Israel 's not out of the woods , though , because you do n't know what 's going to emerge in Syria . <p> WHAT 2025 MIGHT HOLD FOR GAZA : There are signs the war is in its final stages . But even if it ends , I do n't see how anybody would want to invest into rebuilding Gaza again , given the history where every three or four years there is another war where all your work gets destroyed . So for them to get investment this time on that the scale that 's needed , there are going to have to be some big changes in the way people think . They 're not going to just go back to October 6 , 2023 . That 's where diplomacy comes in -- who 's going to run it ? It has to be somebody that 's trusted by all of the sides . It has to be somebody that 's confident they can do things differently . And you 're going to have that constant threat of Hamas undermining the work if they 're not part of this anymore . <p> ON TRAUMA : When this is over one thing that seems safe to say is there 's not going to be a happy ending here . Nobody 's going to come out of this war smiling . Many of the hostages are n't coming back alive . Even if Israel succeeds in dismantling Hamas , if all of these hostages that are alive get out , who knows what sort of trauma they are facing and future they 're going to have ? There are the victims , and hundreds of Israeli soldiers have been killed since then . Their friends and families are all grieving . And the future of Gaza , it has been bombed really into oblivion . I mean , the amount of damage that we can see from satellite photos and from our people on the ground , it will probably take decades to rebuild . No one knows who 's going to govern Gaza . Nobody knows who 's going to pay for this reconstruction . And then just think about all the trauma , what everybody 's been through . Tens of thousands of people killed -- lots of militants but also lots of civilians . We have 90 per cent of the territory that has been displaced . Many , if not most , are living in tents in squalid conditions . About half of Gaza 's population is below the age of 18 . It 's a young society . You have an entire generation of children who have missed two full years of school . Who knows what type of education they will get ? How do you make up that time ? And what future do they have ? <h> SAMYA KULLAB , correspondent , Ukraine <p> ON THE STATUS OF THE WAR : Ukraine is not winnable in the way maybe Ukrainians had hoped back in 2022 , when there were real victories -- the failure of the battle for Kyiv , the winning back territory and the counter-offensive . The jubilation and the joy from those initial moments has kind of turned into this incredible feeling of gloom and coming to terms with what we 've always known -- that Ukraine is at a terrible disadvantage . I would describe it as being bled out slowly . <p> ON OUTSIDE BACKING : A lot hangs on what kind of support Ukraine will get from allies . And that 's also been wanting . One of the reasons Ukrainian military leaders ca n't execute battle plans is because the military support they expected coming from Western allies did not arrive . It did not come on time . But at the same time , those decisions , those battle plans , we have to also look at them and question whether they are , in fact , effective on the battlefield . <p> ON MORALE : The men are just holding on to these defensive lines with everything they have . A year ago , even , I would never hear soldiers say anything negative on record about their leaders . Now people are not only saying it to me on record , they are going online on their social media , with their names , their rank , their units , and telling everyone they know about what is not working . And that , I think , says a lot about where we are . And Ukraine ca n't afford to fire anyone . They need as much manpower as possible . There have been tens of thousands of cases of desertion -- 100,000 since the beginning of the full-scale invasion . And more than half of that figure is from just the last year . Many of them go back and then leave again , but Ukraine does n't have the ability to prosecute 100,000 men . So they much prefer to try to convince them to come back . <p> ON LIFE FOR NONCOMBATANTS : The war is all-encompassing , so you ca n't escape that it 's happening . You walk down the street , you look at some lovely little things on sale , and you see a little sign that says , " Please buy these handmade things . I 'm trying to raise money for my husband 's military unit . " There are donation boxes everywhere . The number of amputees I see walking on the street -- I see them every single day . And now it 's being more normalised . There is a version of The Bachelor here in Ukraine , where the main guy is a double amputee , so it 's becoming more normalised in that way . For people who are not fighting , Kiev feels a bit like a bubble in the sense that there are cafes , there are lovely restaurants , there are bars , people are out . But there 's curfew so by midnight everything is closed and there 's air raid alerts all the time all the time . Today we had almost 200 drones , 90 missiles and one of the largest attacks in at least in a few weeks . So this is all happening around you . <p> ON THE NEAR FUTURE : Two years ago , Zelenskyy would never have said anything about a ceasefire or any kind of agreement that would not include the return of the occupied territories , and now Zelenskyy has said , " Well , we may not be able to get them back military by military force alone it might be a mix of military and diplomacy . That was a signal to all of us that things have changed . My sense from talking to people in Kyiv is everyone is waiting for Donald Trump and what he will decide . And then the other kind of elephant in the room is , does Russia even want to engage in any kind of negotiation ? Why would they ? They have the advantage . Another question is , how long can they go ? <p> A MEMORABLE MOMENT IN 2024 : We found this one woman , and she told us that she had to leave with her children because her daughter was injured . She needed a proper doctor . She could n't leave with her husband because her husband had served with Ukraine and the Russians knew that . And so he was basically under house arrest and he had been tortured . So she left and we asked her , were you there during the floods ? And she said , yeah , I dragged bodies and I buried them with my own hands . And she described this experience she had of picking up bodies in boats , taking them to the shore and then burying them in the cemetery . And one thing I 'll never forget of what she said was , " The dead do n't scare me . The living frighten me far more . " We do n't communicate with her anymore , and I still think about where she is , what she 's what she 's going through and the bravery it takes to leave your home and then the bravery it takes to go back to a place that 's not safe .
