<p> It all started when Wanda Nanibush , the Indigenous curator at the Art Gallery of Ontario , left her job without explanation . <p> Nanibush'soutspoken views , including public support for Palestinian causes , had rankled some staff and gallery supporters . She left only weeks after Hamas'sOct. 7 , 2023 , attack against Israel -- during which 1,200 Israelis were killed and 250 taken hostage -- and Israel 's retaliatory invasion of Gaza , a war that has now killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to Gaza health authorities . Internally , the gallery represented Nanibush 's departure to staff as a mutual decision that would allow her the freedom to express herself . Nanibush made no comment and now only posts to a private social-media account . <p> At the time , her departure felt like an unusually nasty development in the public debate over the war in Gaza . But a year later , as the conflict continues , it is the kind of episode that has become commonplace on the Canadian arts scene.Most recently , HalNiedzviecki , founder and publisher of Broken Pencil and a vocal supporter of Israel on social media , announced in November that he is closing the independent zine-culturemagazine after 30 yearsbecause , as critics called for his resignation , the publication lost crucial revenue from the annual Canzine festivalit had to cancel . <p> Along with a series of cancelled performances and exhibits , over the past year other events were protested or interrupted , including a Toronto International Film Festival screening of an Israeli film , a fundraiser for Israeli military families at the Toronto comedy club Yuk Yuk 's and an Ottawa fundraiser dedicated to freedom of expression . The ceremony for the annual Giller Prize in Toronto took place under heavy security while pro-Palestinian protesters , who had jumped on stage in 2023 , stood outside on the street crying " Shame ! " <p> Behind the scenes in Canada , artists allege they have lost work because they are Palestinian or have voiced support for Palestinians -- or because they are Jewish or expressed support for Israel . <p> In a pattern that has also unfolded in the United States and Europe , arts organizations , from the largest to the small , have found themselves embroiled in protests or controversies as complaints force event cancellations , artists decry censorship and administrators desperately juggle incompatible demands . <p> While real war still rages in the Middle East , Canada 's cultural class is fighting battles over social-media posts and trigger warnings . <p> Internally , arts organizations are debating their stance in a way that no previous social or geopolitical issue has forced them to do . <p> " Black Lives Matter was so easy , so easy to jump on a bandwagon and declare -- without thinking what that means . A little too easy , " said Cheryl Sim , director and chief curator at the PHI Foundation , a contemporary art space in Montreal . " No one was equipped for this one . " <p> Like many of her colleagues , Sim argues that cultural organizations exist to provide a platform for artists and should not themselves make political statements , despite pressure , often from their own young staffers , to speak out . " We do n't make statements through social media ; we make statements through programming , through artists , " she said . " As an arts institution we have to get back to basics : What is your job here ? " <p> Vancouver 's Centre of International Contemporary Art cancelled Israeli-Canadian artist Dina Goldstein 's show and she was convinced it was because of her social-media feed.Dina Goldstein/Supplied <p> On the other hand , some feel a moral obligation to take a stand . <p> " Art is political and making a statement on an issue is a political act , but so is not making a statement , " said Aislinn Rose , director of the Theatre Centre , a Toronto performance incubator that held a 24-hour poetry reading for Nakba , the day marking the displacement of Palestinians by the new state of Israel in 1948 . " Maybe some organizations do n't think about that : Silence is also a statement and that will be remembered . " <p> Still , others welcome statements -- but not boycotts or protests . <p> " It 's so easy to tear things down , " said Noah Richler , jury chair for the 2024 Giller Prize , the target of a writers ' boycott because corporate sponsor Scotiabank has a stake in the Israeli weapons manufacturer Elbit Systems . " I 'm not asking writers to say nothing but the manner in which they do it is important . ... We need to engage . " <p> This disagreementover whether arts groups should make statements turned ugly at the annual conference of the Professional Association of Canadian Theatres in Montreal in May . Prior to the conference , Labour in the Arts -- an ad hoc group concerned about the precarious jobs of young arts workers -- had issued an open letter calling on Canadian theatres to support their staff 's freedom of expression and not penalize workers who spoke up for Palestinians . To allow debate on the issue , PACT organized a town hall , a tense gathering that seems to have left few people satisfied . <p> The speakers included representatives of Nightwood Theatre , a Toronto feminist company , who said they had to be careful to avoid anything their funders would interpret as partisan activity . ( A few years ago , the group had been warned by Ontario 's Trillium Foundation about a reposted social-media item -- one unrelated to Gaza -- that the funder considered politically partisan . ) That was followed by about 10 speakers expressing their distress over events in Gaza and accusing theatre leaders of censorship . The session ended after a Jewish member who said the open letter harmed her was heckled . <p> Afterward , some Jewish members said they felt it is was not Israel but their Judaism that was under attack . Other members expressed frustration that theatres were cherry-picking their causes , supporting feminism , for example , but not Palestinian rights . Some expressed this as a clear generation gap : The cautious old guard needed to move out of the way . <p> The politics of the moment have left some arts organizations approaching public debate with extreme caution , walking a tightrope between free speech and offended audiences . When writer Kagiso Lesego Molope made an impromptu speech about starving children in Gaza at the Politics and the Pen gala in Ottawa in May , 2024 , she was escorted out by security . But a few weeks later , the Writers ' Trust of Canada , one of the organizers , apologized . <p> Soon after , the charity that supports Canadian writersposted its speechpolicies on its website . It says the group does not comment on politics or global conflict itself , but it listed guidance to writers that opened the door for them to do so : " Winning authors are encouraged to use their time at the podium as they choose . ... Venue security will not remove any person who peacefully and respectfully express their views . ... We will not tolerate disrespectful speech ... especially not hate speech or abusive language . " <p> Hala Alsalman 's installation They Stole Our Eyes ( but We Still See ) was part of the group show , called " Expressions of Critical Thought " at the Aurora Cultural Centre.Hala Alsalman/Supplied <p> While these disagreements swirl around artists ' and arts groups ' speech , other controversies have erupted over programming itself . <p> Perhaps the most tortured arts controversy has been that surrounding the decisions by the Belfry Theatre in Victoria and PuSh Festival in Vancouver to cancel a production of The Runner . A successful one-man stage show written by Christopher Morris and on tour since 2018 , The Runner concerns an Israeli emergency volunteer who chooses to help a young Arab woman instead of an Israeli soldier . Morris is neither Israeli nor Jewish and the play , by implication , condemns many Israelis . <p> Nonetheless , pro-Palestinian protesters argued it only represented Zionist viewpoints and , after a difficult community meeting , the Belfry decided to withdraw it . This , in turn , led to an outcry from voices in both the Jewish and wider cultural community who felt the play was being censored for little reason other than its Israeli setting . <p> Meanwhile , the PuSh Festival , which offers a lineup of international performing arts at multiple venues , tried to continue with its production , publiclycommunicating about the play 's themes and organizing a complementary art installation by a Palestinian refugee . <p> However , PuSh finally cancelled its production of The Runner after artist Basel Zaraa refused to let his work be shown at the festival if Morris 's playwas programmed , saying it dehumanizes Palestinian charactersas anonymous perpetrators of violence and does not explain Israel 's occupation of Gaza and the West Bank . With his show dropped for a second time , Morris said in a statement : " It 's unsettling when Canadian theatres can not be a space for the public to engage in a dynamic exchange of ideas . I believe theatre must be a place where contrasting perspectives are programmed and celebrated . Now more than ever , we need to listen to each other , engage in different viewpoints , and find our shared humanity . " <p> These decisions repeat a common scenario : Arts groups have tended to react swiftly to public complaints , sometimes pulling work , changing signage or cancelling programming altogether -- only to find themselves trapped in a second controversy by those actions . Vague public statements reiterating commitments to both freedom of expression and community safety do little to resolve the situations and are often interpreted as dishonest . <p> For example , when Vancouver 's Centre of International Contemporary Art cancelled a display of Barbie-inspiredsatirical photographs by Israeli-Canadian artist Dina Goldstein , curator Viahsta Yuan cited practical reasons in an interview with The Globe and Mail , including issues with framing and overlap with another artist 's work . Goldstein was convinced the real problem was her social-media feed , which showed previous trips to Israel and included posts lamenting the Oct. 7 attack . She showed The Globe text messages from Yuan saying there had been complaints about her participation in the show . <p> Similarly , the gallery in the Aurora Cultural Centre , north of Toronto , permanently closed a show that included works mentioning Palestine after complaints from viewers and online accusations of antisemitism . A crowd-sourced work by co-curator Chantal Hassard , who is the grandchild of a Holocaust survivor , included the words " Free Palestine " and " intifada " written by contributors from the wider public , while work by Hala Alsalman included a map with the label " ( Israel ) Palestine . " The gallery 's own review in response to the complaints found " no harmful intent or content " but spokesperson Jane Taylor said the gallery should have warned audiences of difficult content and that the centre 's staff is not large enough " to make this exhibit happen the way it should for the artists and the community . " <p> Hassard said her work represented the collective unconsciousness , and used terms that were in the zeitgeist , while Alsalman said she was merely identifying the historic name of Israel . " Simply referencing Palestine at this time warranted this kind of erasure , " Alsalman says . <p> Some point out that the programming dilemmas related to Israel and Palestine predate the current war . <p> " In the theatre world , there has been a long-standing fear of programming that is critical of the Israeli state , " said playwright Natasha Greenblatt , recalling the controversies of the 2000s over plays such as My Name is Rachel Corrie -- about an American protester killed by an Israeli bulldozer that Canadian Stage programmed and then cancelled in 2006 -- and Seven Jewish Children , the much-debated 10-minute history of Israel by the pro-Palestinian British playwright Caryl Churchill . " People do n't want to program work that is explicitly critical of Israel for fear of losing funding , losing subscribers or pushback from Zionist groups . " <p> Greenblatt , a Jewish playwright who has co-written a script with Palestinian-Canadian writer Rimah Jabr , is part of Theatre Artists for Palestinian Voices , an association that aims to bring stories by Palestinian artists to Canadian stages . <p> Her play , Two Birds One Stone , features a conversation between a Jewish Canadian and a Palestinian Muslim and was included in a 2023-24 season dedicated to the Middle East at Montreal 's Teesri Duniya Theatre . " Our entire season is a cultural front to mobilize public opinion in support of a lasting peace , in support of freedom , in opposition to settler colonialism -- and at the same time , fighting Islamophobia and antisemitism , " artistic director Rahul Varma said . <p> Natasha Greenblatt , a Jewish playwright has co-written " Two Birds One Stone " with Palestinian-Canadian writer Rimah Jabr , as part of Theatre Artists for Palestinian Voices , an association that aims to bring stories by Palestinian artists to Canadian stages.Rania Lardjane/Supplied <p> That desire for compromise is unusual but not unique . <p> Leslie Hurtig , director the Vancouver Writers Fest , was determined that the October , 2024 , festival would address events in Gaza and purposefully invited speakers on highly topical issues including contemporary political writing , the Palestinian/Israeli conflict and the experience of trauma related to Hamas 's Oct. 7 attack . She then gave all hosts extra instructions about how to deal with disruptions , whether by panelists or audience members . <p> " We did not see the pushback that I was concerned about . We did not need to implement any of our safety or emergency measures , " Hurtig said . " Everyone was very open-hearted and everyone was listening respectfully , which is what we asked them to come prepared to do . " <p> Abroad , 2025 begins with only faint hopes of a ceasefire in Gaza , but in Canada there are occasional signs that the arts can reassert their role as a forum for discussion rather than dispute . <p> " What kind of kitchen table conversation can we have ? How can we share a meal and talk ? " asks Barbara Fischer , director of the art museum at the University of Toronto where the campus was occupied by pro-Palestinian protesters for two months in the summer . With diaspora politics bringing foreign wars home to Canada , Fischer sees multiculturalism as increasingly illusory , but she also believes the arts provide an important arena in which to consider otherness and diasporic experience . <p> " If anywhere there is a place for difference it should be in the arts , " Fischer said . " War is an abhorrent way to solve problems : I 'd like to think the arts are centred in difference and complexity . "
