<p> Students and community members in Kelowna joined the Pro-Palestine movement unfolding at universities across Canada and the U.S. and have set up an encampment at the UBC Okanagan campus in May 2024 . <p> The group in Kelowna called UBCO 4 Palestine , gathered at 5 a.m. on May 13 in the UBCO Courtyard and set up tents , tables and signs . The group is calling on the University of British Columbia to divest from Israel 's " occupation and genocide " of Palestinians and to publicly condemn the ongoing violence . <p> The protests began after Israel 's response to an attack on civilians by a terrorist organization called Hamas on Oct 7 . The assault by Hamas killed approximately 1,200 people , mostly civilians in Israel and took more as captives . In response , Israel 's military has killed over 34,500 Palestinians living in Gaza . <p> Members of UBCO 4 Palestine requested to remain anonymous for fear of repercussions from the public , the university and law enforcement . The group includes students , members of the public , and people from diverse backgrounds including people of Jewish heritage , Palestinian descent , immigrants , international students and Indigenous people . <p> On May 16 , UBC President Benoit-Antoine Bacon issued an official statement saying " We hope for a ceasefire and a lasting peaceful resolution in the Middle East . " He furthered the statement by explaining that to remain respectful of the broad range of opinions held by students and faculty of the university , the academic institution must remain neutral . <p> Bacon also said that the UBC Endowment Fund does not directly own any stocks in the companies identified by the movement . However , he said a small percentage of university funds managed by external investment managers have been invested in companies that were named as being " complicit in Israel 's numerous violations of Palestinian human right , " by the People 's University for Gaza . <p> Dialogue and debate are integral to a free society and we welcome and encourage you to share your views on the issues of the day . We ask that you be respectful of others and their points of view , refrain from personal attacks and stay on topic . To learn about our commenting policies and how our community-based moderation works , please read our Community Guidelines .
