<p> As CBC/Radio-Canada prepares to welcome a new president in January , the fate of the embattled public broadcaster has never been more in doubt . <p> Created by the federal government 88 years ago to unite a disparate population inundated with American culture , the CBC has now become such a source of division that the party most likelyto win the next federal election appears determined to " defund " its English-language operations altogether . <p> Dwindling audiences , amid ever-expanding media choices , have left the CBC vulnerable to charges that it no longer serves any useful purpose . That it only drains scarce advertising dollars from what remains of the country 's endangered private media . That its brand of journalism -- unfailingly progressive and , to its critics , " woke " and sanctimonious -- is contributing to political polarization and undermining trust in the very institutions meant to bring us together . That too much of the $1.44-billion in annual funding it gets from Ottawa goes toward sustaining a top-heavy bureaucracy and producing mediocre content . <p> This is the seemingly hopeless cause that Marie-Philippe Bouchard has nevertheless agreed to take on as CBC/Radio-Canada 's next president and chief executive officer when she succeeds Catherine Tait on Jan. 3 . Liberal Heritage Minister Pascale St-Onge , who is also promising to unveil an overhaul of the CBC 's governance and mandate before the next election , appointed Ms. Bouchard to a five-year term in October , praising her as a " talented , strong public broadcasting leader with a proven record of transformation . " <p> A lawyer by training who served on a task force that Ms. St-Onge created to advise her on changes at the broadcaster , Ms. Bouchard spent almost three decades at Radio-Canada in administration and news before leaving in 2016 to run TV5 Qu ? bec Canada , a specialty channel that airs Canadian documentary programming and showcases news and dramatic content from foreign French-language public broadcasters . Under her leadership , it has won praise for its catchy mix of high and popular culture offerings . <p> Unsurprisingly , Ms. Bouchard thought twice about accepting Ms. Onge 's offer to jump to CBC/Radio-Canada only months before a federal election that could leave her answering to a hostile government in Ottawa . " To be frank , when the search for candidates started , I was approached and I said no , " she told the House of Commons Standing Committee on Canadian Heritage in November . " Then it started working in my head that there are so many opportunities , and it 's so precious for all Canadians and for future generations that we , together , figure out this problem . There 's a limit in resources -- I understand that -- and we have to be really efficient . But there 's an incredible wealth in this idea of a broadcaster , a medium , that belongs to the public and whose first focus is the audience . " <p> If that sounds like a nostalgic notion of what CBC/Radio-Canada could or should be , it may be because the gap between the role the public broadcaster was created to perform and the one it now plays in Canadian society is wider than ever . <p> A 1929 Royal Commission called for the creation of a government-owned broadcaster to make up for the private sector 's failure to deliver domestic radio programs across the country . " At present the majority of programs heard are from sources outside of Canada ... The continued reception of these has a tendency to mould the minds of the young people in the home to ideals and opinions that are not Canadian , " the commission stated . " In a country of the vast geographical dimensions of Canada , broadcasting will undoubtedly become a great force in fostering a national spirit and interpreting national citizenship . " <p> CBC/Radio-Canada 's official mandate still embodies those aspirational goals . The Broadcasting Act stipulates that the public broadcaster should " contribute to a shared national consciousness and identity " through a broad array of programming that " informs , enlightens and entertains . " That legislation was passed in 1991 . <p> You read that right . CBC/Radio-Canada 's mandate has not been updated in more than 30 years ; it predates the advent of the internet , smart phones , social media , streaming and a transformation in the way Canadians consume news and entertainment content . Indeed , the term " public broadcaster " is increasingly becoming an anachronism ; CBC/Radio-Canada and its peers now prefer to call themselves " public service media " as they embrace a multiplatform delivery model and fight to remain relevant in a fractured media ecosystem . <p> If that was not enough , public broadcasters -- for the sake of simplicity , we 'll stick with that term -- are also under siege from politicians on the right who attack their journalism and seek to slash their funding . Amid growing distrust in government , public broadcasters are suffering from a credibility deficit owing to their dependence on the state that directly or indirectly funds them . The " government-funded media " label that Elon Musk briefly slapped in 2023 on the X accounts of CBC/Radio-Canada and some its foreign peers reflected growing antipathy toward brands that once represented the journalistic gold standard in their respective countries . They have become tools of wedge politics . <p> " The environment is so difficult for all public broadcasters right now -- and I do n't just mean the competitive landscape , " said digital media expert Sue Gardner , a former executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation , the non-profit organization that runs Wikipedia , and ex-head of CBC 's website . " With the fragmentation and polarization of audiences , it is difficult to think about how you reflect people back to themselves when there is so much divisiveness and when there is not a sense of shared facts from which people are operating . " <p> Conventional television still accounts for about 70 per cent of CBC/Radio-Canada 's advertising revenue , or about $195-million of the $270-million in ad dollars the public broadcaster generated in the 2023-2024 fiscal year . But TV audiences are in decline and CBC/Radio-Canada is scrambling to attract audiences in much the same way its private-sector counterparts do ; it has become desperate for clicks , and all that that entails , including a reliance on algorithms , such as those used by X , that amplify conflict , division and anger . <p> The CBC 's coverage of controversial subjects such as the COVID-19 pandemic , the Freedom convoy protests , the Black Lives Matter movement , the discovery of potential unmarked grave sites at former Indigenous residential schools and the war in Gaza has hardened conservative opinion against the broadcaster and intensified calls for its dismantling . <p> When a senior CBC reporter covering the Gaza conflict posted on X in July that Israel 's killing of a Hamas official who had been participating in ceasefire talks seemed like a " deliberate effort " to ensure no such deal was reached , Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre shot back : " CBC is mourning the loss of the leader of Hamas , who carried out the biggest massacre of Jews since the Holocaust . Destroy Hamas . Defund the CBC . " <p> The broadcaster later offered that its reporter 's post " needed more context . " That did not satisfy its critics , nor could it have . For them , the incident was not an isolated one ; it fit a pattern . <p> " When you have those voices repeatedly being heard -- people saying the CBC is n't speaking for them or representing a diversity of views -- you have to pay attention , " said Glenn O'Farrell , a former head of Ontario French-language public broadcaster TFO and ex-president of the Canadian Association of Broadcasters . " Instead of addressing such comments , CBC management has defensively buckled down on their positions . " <p> Dissatisfaction with the CBC had been growing for years before Mr. Poilievre took up the defund mantra . The public broadcaster 's move to suspend local suppertime and late-night news shows when pandemic lockdowns were imposed in early 2020 , citing staff shortages as employees fell sick or isolated , drew outrage from average Canadians and provincial premiers alike . The CBC had previously shortened local news shows from 90 minutes to an hour , or even 30 minutes , in most markets . It appeared to jump on the pandemic as an excuse for withdrawing further from the local-news space , even though Canadians were craving information about how COVID-19 was affecting their communities . <p> Meanwhile , Ms. Tait allowed herself to become a lightning rod for criticism when she dismissed Mr. Poilievre 's defunding threat as a Tory " slogan " and fundraising gimmick , last year telling The Globe and Mail : " There 's a lot of CBC bashing going on -- somewhat stoked by the Leader of the Opposition ... I think they feel that CBC is a mouthpiece for the Liberal government . " <p> In October , Ms. Tait was summoned before the heritage committee to explain the CBC 's decision to distribute $18.4-million in performance bonuses to about 1,200 non-unionized employees in 2023-24 -- this despite eliminating almost 350 positions and getting an extra $42-million from Ottawa to avoid further job cuts . Instead of displaying contrition , Ms. Tait denounced what she called " a clear effort on the part of members of this committee to vilify and discredit me and to discredit the organization . " She also accused MPs of sapping morale : " It is highly demoralizing to be the target of constant criticism when you 're working each and every day to bring fact-based news and information to Canadians across the country and commissioning some of the best programming in the world ... The sooner this narrative is shut down the better . " <p> " I 've developed a habit of asking people around me what they think of the CBC , and I 've been surprised by the number of people who are really vitriolic , " Ms. Gardner said . " They are furious about what they characterize as its woke culture and lecturing tone . That is a real thing . " <p> A recent McGill Centre for Media , Technology and Democracy study bears that out . A significant proportion of Canadians think the public broadcaster is too woke ( 27 per cent ) , tells people what to think ( 30 per cent ) and shows bias in its reporting ( 31 per cent ) . Similar proportions of Canadians disagree ; around 40 per cent are neutral , or have no opinion , according to the survey of 2,055 adults conducted for the McGill centre by Abacus Data . <p> The outsized role Radio-Canada plays in preserving francophone culture in North America has protected it from the negative political winds that have buffeted the CBC . Francophone Canadians are less likely to think the public broadcaster is too woke or biased in its reporting . Only 6 per cent of those who responded to the McGill survey in French said CBC/Radio-Canada is " no longer needed , " compared to 19 per cent of English-language respondents . <p> Though much of its programming is unabashedly populist , Radio-Canada 's popularity in Quebec makes it politically untouchable . Hence , Mr. Poilievre 's promise to scrap the CBC while keeping the French network -- which would likely be much harder than it sounds . CBC/Radio-Canada 's budget is now split 56 per cent to 44 per cent between English and French operations , even though French is the first official language spoken by just 22 per cent of Canadians . " Ensuring a vibrant French culture across Canada requires additional measures to support French services , " CBC spokesperson Leon Mar said in an e-mail . <p> If it is any consolation to Ms. Bouchard , most Canadians , including Conservative voters , would prefer to reform CBC/Radio-Canada rather than abolish it altogether . The McGill study found that 78 per cent of Canadians would like to see the public broadcaster continue " if it addresses major criticisms . " <p> Despite their misgivings , Canadians want " a CBC that does news , entertainment and cultural programming , " McGill Centre senior fellow and project lead , Jessica Johnson said . " That does n't mean they think it is great the way it is . They want it to do a better job . " <p> Is that asking too much ? Probably . <p> Ms. Tait complained constantly about CBC/Radio-Canada 's underfunding . And relative to its peers elsewhere , our public broadcaster does get less state funding on a per capita basis , or $32 compared to an average of $79 among the 20 developed-world public broadcasters included in a recent study prepared for CBC/Radio-Canada by consulting firm Nordicity . <p> CBC/Radio-Canada saw its funding cut by Brian Mulroney 's Progressive Conservative government in the 1980s , Jean Chr ? tien 's Liberal government in 1990s , and Stephen Harper 's Conservative government in the 2000s . The Tory cuts were modest compared to the chainsaw the Chr ? tien government took to CBC/Radio-Canada . It slashed a third of its government funding between 1995 and 1998 . <p> Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's Liberals reversed Mr. Harper 's cuts -- and then some . CBC/Radio-Canada 's government funding rose from $1.04-billion in its 2014-15 fiscal year to $1.44-billion in 2023-24 , an increase of more than 40 per cent . Over the same period , the consumer price index rose 28.5 per cent . <p> CBC/Radio-Canada has fared better than many of its peers , which have seen their state subsidies grow at a snail 's pace , or not at all in recent years . European public broadcasters -- many of which are funded through a licence fee levied on television-owning households -- have also operated in an increasingly hostile political environment . More and more voters are unwilling to pay a licence fee for a service they rarely or never use any more , forcing governments to react . <p> Britain 's BBC , once considered the model for public broadcasters everywhere , saw a 30 per cent drop in funding in real terms between 2010 and 2020 because of below-inflation increases in its licence fee . Former Conservative prime minister Boris Johnson 's government , a fierce critic of the BBC , froze the licence fee between 2022 and 2024 . The election of a Labour government has provided a reprieve : the licence fee is set to rise by ? 5 ( $9 ) in 2025 to ? 174.50 ( $315 ) and in line with inflation until 2027 , when the BBC 's current charter expires . The previous Tory government promised to eliminate the unpopular licence fee altogether by that date . The Labour government has not yet said what it will do . <p> In 2022 , President Emmanuel Macron 's government scrapped licence fees for France T ? l ? visions and Radio France . It replaced them with a portion of the country 's value-added tax ( VAT ) . The far-right National Rally , meanwhile , calls for the privatization of France T ? l ? visions and Radio France . " The state can not have a stranglehold on such a large part of the media , " leader Marine Le Pen said in July . " The best way to be independent is to not depend on government funding . " <p> In short , public broadcasters almost everywhere are facing tighter budgets and having to make hard decisions about what they do -- and do not do -- in an era when consumer choices abound . The CBC should be no different . <p> " Trying to be all things to all people just does not make sense any more . CBC/Radio-Canada should zero in on news and public affairs and make that its singular focus for the time it takes to build trust with the public , " Mr. O'Farrell , the veteran broadcasting executive , said . " That means taking resources away from other areas and making the local news investments that have not been made in recent years . " <p> CBC/Radio-Canada holds the exclusive Canadian broadcasting rights to the Olympics until 2032 , after outbidding private broadcasters . It has not disclosed how much it paid for the rights . But its second-quarter financial report , which covered the Paris Summer Olympics , showed that advertising revenues increased by $72-million from the same period in 2023 , while expenses rose by $92.5-million , for a net shortfall of about $20-million . <p> " For the public broadcaster , Olympic and Paralympic coverage is not simply a revenue opportunity . It is an opportunity to unite Canadians in celebration of the accomplishments of their athletes , " spokesperson Mr. Mar said . " This approach to the Games requires additional investment for the public broadcaster , which we believe serves the public interest and would not necessarily be offered by a private broadcaster focused solely on revenue . " <p> Still , Canada 's private broadcasters would likely jump at the opportunity to acquire the rights to broadcast Olympic events . CBC/Radio-Canada could split its costs with them . " Collaborations with private players has to be job one for the CBC to be able to continue to do things like the Olympics , " Mr. O'Farrell said . <p> Outside of the Olympics , fewer and fewer sports enthusiasts turn to the CBC , which was once the main destination for Canadian hockey fans . Fewer still turn to the English CBC for entertainment programming . Some still do turn to the public broadcaster to be enlightened , thanks to standout shows like CBC-TV 's The Nature of Things and CBC Radio One 's Ideas . <p> But there is a gaping hole in Canada 's current media landscape , and millions of Canadians are falling through it . Private media are not interested in serving less-engaged news consumers . CBC/Radio-Canada must be there for them . <p> " I love Ideas , but the CBC can not be only Ideas because that would not touch enough people , " Ms. Gardner opined . " The CBC has an obligation to make news and public affairs products for people who have low interest in news . That 's not rewarding because that is not a very receptive audience . But I think they have an obligation to ensure everybody has access to some basic level of knowledge . " <p> The CBC has taken tentative steps in this direction . CBC Explore , the broadcaster 's two-year-old news streaming service , produces explanatory videos that distill complex issues for low-information viewers . But the CBC needs to do much more to reach the millions of Canadians who are being left behind in the social media age . Meta 's move to block news access on Facebook and Instagram in 2023 to protest Ottawa 's Online News Act has made that clear . <p> " Canadians are simply seeing less news online -- an estimated reduction of 11 million views per day across Instagram and Facebook -- due to the ban . Canadians continue to learn about politics and current events through Facebook and Instagram , but through a more biased and less factual lens than before and many Canadians do not even realize the shift has occurred , " said a recent report by the Media Ecosystem Observatory . <p> For the CBC to escape a future Tory axe , Ms. Bouchard should articulate a new vision for the public broadcaster that puts the hardest-to-reach Canadians first . That would mean jettisoning much ( though far from all ) of what it now does . But thus refining the CBC 's mission may be the only way to save it .
