<p> Reggae artiste , Duane Stephenson , was booked to perform twice on ' the greatest one-night dancehall show on Earth ' , Sting , and he said that both times were history-making events . <p> The singer made his Sting d ? but in 2008 , the year of the highly anticipated Kartel and Mavado clash , and he has some potent memories . Stephenson recalled that although Sting is known as a hardcore dancehall show " there was a nice reggae section after which there was a mass exodus from the venue ... but for every one person who exited , three persons were entering " . <p> " It was if there were two shows that night ... the reggae show and the dancehall show ... and both had their crowd . Trucks were parked along the Dyke Road in Portmore full of people who for one reason or another did n't get inside the venue , but they were determined to watch that Kartel/Mavado clash unfold , " Stephenson shared . <p> The clash saw Kartel and his adherents representing the Gaza , while Mavado and his followers represented for the Gully . The vicious Gaza vs Gully feud between the two dancehall artistes had taken on a life of its own and the legendary Sting stage was prepped as the great decider . At the end of the night , both groups claimed winnings , with Kartel going a step further by releasing a song the next day celebrating his victory . <h> POSTPONEMENT <p> Fast forward to 2024 - 16 years later - and Stephenson was booked to perform on Sting for the second time in his career , but this time it turned out to be the Sting that did n't happen . <h> Headlines Delivered to Your Inbox <p> For December 26 , Stephenson was ready up to the 11th hour to perform at the annual Boxing Day gala . But he got the shock of his life on the morning of the actual day of the event , when he was notified via email that Sting was postponed . <p> " I was quite surprised because you would think that if something like this was going to happen it would not be the day of the show , " the August Town singer told The Gleaner . <p> " Rehearsals went extremely well , so everyone was prepped and ready to go . Ruff Kut was the main backing band . For some of the artistes ... they would switch out some of their members for other roots musicians ... and I figure that was to keep costs down . And it worked ... the music was great , " Stephenson said . <p> He shared that he reached out to the promotional team early on Thursday morning regarding the passes and was told that they would get back to him . <p> " The next thing I got was the email that was sent to all the artistes because they wanted us to know first ... before the news of the postponement hit the media . " <p> The entertainer , who is currently in the final stages of preparation to release a new album , was somewhat philosophical in his acceptance that " things do happen " . <p> " Sting has distinguished itself as being the ' first ' in many areas of entertainment over the decades ... so I suppose that this is just another first for them , " Stephenson said with a shrug , while emphasising that he was " extremely disappointed " . <p> The promoters of Sting , Supreme Promotions said that this postponement was the first in the concert 's 40-year history and shoved the blame at the doorstep of the sound , stage and light company , Clearsound . That company , however , subsequently pushed back at initial reports and detailed " unresolved financial issues and hazardous conditions " as the major reasons for them pulling out from Sting 2024 . <p> " Sting is such an iconic show that for it to end like this is painful , " Stephenson stated . " Sting has been the staple dancehall event for so many years ... it has made so many careers . Sting was that show that was known to keep ticket prices at a minimum , and it was especially needed now in these times of exorbitant ticket prices , " said Stephenson , who recently gave excellent performances at Ghetto Splash and JaRIA Reggae Wednesdays Jamz , both of which are free events . <p> He shared that the letter did n't mention a new date for the event , nor did it address the issue of the artiste deposits . <p> " I received a 25-per-cent deposit the standard is 50 per cent and what I respect is that the promoters were transparent . They did express to me that they were struggling financially so I was aware of the dynamics , " he said . <p> The Little Cottage in Negril singer expressed concern over the way that business is conducted in the entertainment ecosystem and suggested that for Sting to rebuild it should perhaps consider a smaller venue for the next staging . <p> " It 's about time we rethink how we go about the real business of Sting . We have to put business first . We as artistes understand that . Before the show , the promoter picks you up at the airport up in a limousine ... after the show you grab a taxi or the hotel shuttle back to the airport , " he said .
