<h> Israel issues ' final warning ' to Yemen at UN Security Council meeting <p> Permanent Representative of Israel to the United Nations Danny Danon ? speaks during a meeting of the United Nations Security Council at UN headquarters in New York City , U.S. , on Nov. 25 . Kent J. Edwards/Reuters <p> Israel 's ambassador to the United Nations issued on Monday what he called a final warning to Yemen 's Iran-backed Houthi militants to halt their missile attacks on Israel , saying they otherwise risked the same " miserable fate " as Hamas , Hezbollah and Syria 's Bashar al-Assad if they persisted . <p> He also warned Tehran that Israel has the ability to strike any target in the Middle East , including in Iran , adding that Israel would not tolerate attacks by Iranian proxies . <p> Houthis have repeatedly fired drones and missiles toward Israel in what they describe as acts of solidarity with Palestinians under Israeli fire in Gaza . <p> " To the Houthis , perhaps you have not been paying attention to what has happened to the Middle East over the past year . Well , allow me to remind you what has happened to Hamas , to Hezbollah , to Assad , to all those who have attempted to destroy us . Let this be your final warning . This is not a threat . It is a promise . You will share the same miserable fate , " Israeli Ambassador Danny Danon told the U.N . Security Council . <p> Speaking before the meeting , Danon told reporters : " Israel will defend its people . If 2,000 kilometers is not enough to separate our children from the terror , let me assure you , it will not be enough to protect their terror from our strengths . " <p> Last week , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu warned the Houthis that Israel was " just getting started " following Israeli strikes on multiple Houthi-linked targets in Yemen , including Sanaa airport , ports on the country 's west coast and two power plants . <p> Israel 's elimination of the top leaders of the Palestinian Hamas and Lebanese Hezbollah and the destruction of their military structure along with Assad 's collapse represent a succession of monumental wins for Netanyahu . <p> Briefing the Security Council meeting , Assistant U.N . Secretary General for the Middle East Khaled Khiari reiterated grave concern about the escalation in violence , calling on the Houthis to halt attacks on Israel and for international and humanitarian law to be respected . <p> " Millions in Yemen , Israel and throughout the region , would continue to bear the brunt of escalation with no end . " <p> Russia 's ambassador to the U.N. , Vassily Nebenzia , while condemning Houthi missile attacks on Israel , also criticized Israel 's retaliatory strikes on Yemen , as well those by what he called the " Anglo-Saxon coalition " of U.S. and British warships in the Red Sea , saying they were " clearly not proportional . "
