<h> Windsor man 's statements to police about joining neo-Nazi group are admissible as evidence , judge rules <p> CBC <p> December 30 , 2024 at 3:14 p.m. *3 min read <p> Seth Bertrand ( right ) of Windsor smokes a cigarette with an unidentified male during a break in Superior Court proceedings in November 2024 . ( Jennifer La Grassa/CBC - image credit ) <p> A Windsor man 's recorded conversations with RCMP about trying to join a neo-Nazi group will be used against him in his trial on a charge of terrorism . <p> A Superior Court judge ruled on Monday that things Seth Bertrand said to an undercover officer , and things he said to an officer after his arrest , are admissible as evidence . <p> " The circumstances by which the statement was ( obtained ) was not oppressive , " said Justice Maria Carroccia . <p> Bertrand , 21 , is facing a terrorism charge in relation to what RCMP allege were attempts to connect with a far-right hate group called the Atomwaffen Division -- also known as the National Socialist Resistance Front . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Inspired by the writings of avowed U.S. neo-Nazi James Mason , the group promotes armed violence for white nationalist aims . <p> Canada listed the Atomwaffen Division as a terrorist entity in 2021 . <p> RCMP allege that Bertrand submitted an online application in which he " offered his skills and commitment to do things " for the group . <p> Seth Bertrand ( right ) of Windsor smokes a cigarette with an unidentified male during a break in Superior Court proceedings in November 2024 . <p> Seth Bertrand ( right ) of Windsor smokes a cigarette with an unidentified male during a break in Superior Court proceedings in November 2024 . ( Jennifer La Grassa/CBC ) <p> In their investigation of Bertrand , RCMP carried out an elaborate months-long operation in which multiple undercover officers established relationships with him . <p> The operation eventually led to a recorded conversation in which Bertrand talked about his contact with the Atomwaffen Division and other extremist groups . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The court heard that , in the recording , Bertrand described his own position as one of " domestic terrorism , " with a desire to become " weaponized . " <p> Exterior of the Ontario Superior Court of Justice building in Windsor . <p> Exterior of the Ontario Superior Court of Justice building in Windsor . ( Chris Ensing/CBC ) <p> RCMP arrested Bertrand on the terrorism charge in May 2022 . While in custody , Bertrand told officers he was no longer involved in " that stuff , " and that he only " tried to get in contact with them . " <p> Bertrand has pleaded not guilty . His lawyer , Bobby Russon , argued that RCMP 's undercover operation was equivalent to what 's known as a " Mr. Big " police procedure -- a co-ordinated , covert technique which case law warns can lead to unreliable confessions . <p> Russon further argued that after his client 's arrest , RCMP violated Bertrand 's rights by interviewing him without providing access to his choice of lawyer , and by not making him aware of the legal jeopardy of his statements . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> But Carroccia disagreed . <p> The judge noted that the undercover operation involved no misconduct , abuse , or threat of violence , and that Bertrand was " comfortable " and " spoke freely . " <p> Carroccia also noted that upon Bertrand 's arrest , officers made reasonable attempts to contact Russon , and repeatedly asked Bertrand if he understood his situation . <p> Carroccia pointed out that , in the recordings , Bertrand can be heard denying public counsel , telling officers he knew his rights , and saying that " this is not my first rodeo . " <p> " It appears that Mr. Bertrand understood the nature of the charges , " Carroccia told the court . <p> Monday 's ruling was on the voir dire portion of the trial , in which the court determines admissibility of evidence . <p> The trial is tentatively set to continue on Jan. 23 . The verdict will be decided by judge alone . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Russon has advised the court of his intention to file for a " directed verdict " -- an acquittal on the grounds that there is no evidence of an essential element in the charge . <p> Prior to Bertrand 's arrest on the terrorism charge , he committed hate-motivated acts of vandalism in Windsor from February to May of 2021 -- such as smashing a window at a trans support centre , as well as scrawling swastikas and slurs on the property . <p> Bertrand pleaded guilty to three counts of mischief and one count of inciting hatred in connection with the vandalism . <p> A Fredericton police constable who assaulted his fianc ? e has resigned from the force ahead of an arbitrator 's decision on whether he could keep his job.Following hearings last summer and fall , George Filliter was supposed to render a decision in the discreditable conduct case brought against Colin Holmes.However , Holmes resigned from the force on Dec. 2 , effectively putting an end to the arbitration process , Filliter said in an order he filed on Dec. 20 . " I hereby relinquish my jurisdiction in re <p> Air raid sirens sounded in Tel Aviv Monday after reports of a missile launch from Yemen , sending residents running for shelter . The Israeli military said in a statement that " a missile launched from Yemen was intercepted by the IAF ( Israeli Air Force ) prior to crossing into Israeli territory . " ( AP Video by Tia Goldenberg ) <p> After a mild last week of 2024 for southern Alberta , the new year is set to arrive alongside temperatures plunging into the negative high teens . According to Environment Canada , the colder weather is expected to hit on New Year 's Day , and continue to the end of the week , getting to -- 18 C overnight on Friday , with some snow flurries expected . " Just enough snow to perhaps make the roads a little bit slippery , " freelance climate journalist Kyle Brittain told CBC Radio 's the Calgary Eyeopener on Mon <p> A man is wanted after officers responding to a report of gunfire found a man shot in the leg in a northern Manitoba city early Sunday , RCMP say.Jonathan Boychuk , 37 , is considered armed and dangerous and should not be approached , police said in a news release.A warrant for his arrest was issued after Thompson RCMP responded to a report of gunshots on Nickel Road shortly before 5 a.m . Sunday . Officers found a 40-year-old man in a nearby home who had been shot in the leg , according to police . He w <p> A teenage boy who was reported missing on Friday afternoon has been found safe , Thompson RCMP say.The 17-year-old boy was reported missing on Dec. 23 , when he was last seen in Winnipeg while visiting family.In an update Monday , RCMP said the teen had been found safe.A previous version of this story included the boy 's name and photograph . CBC has removed the photo and his name to protect his privacy now that he has been found . <p> Shari MacDonald tries to make sure there are plenty of social activities for people at P.E.I. 's Miltonvale Community Hall -- everything from coffee clubs and movie nights to exercise classes and line dancing . " We do hear lots of people say how happy they are to be at the hall and how pleased they are that events are close to home , " she said.The importance of social activity and friendships has been evident since the COVID-19 pandemic began in 2020 and people became more isolated and lonely . In 202 <p> Bob Rorison still remembers the sounds of the crash after an impaired driver hit his car at an intersection in Richmond , B.C. , in 1994 . " It was like an explosion . It was like a bomb went off , " he said.Thirty years later , Rorison returned to that same intersection at Alderbridge Way and No. 4 Road with CBC News . " I can feel inside of me that -- the tension and the images -- remembering what happened that night , how vivid it is , even now , " he said.Thirty years after an impaired driver crashed into Bo <p> Calgary police issued a dangerous person alert for the city on Monday linked to a double homicide investigation . The alert warned about Benedict Kaminski , 38 , described as a dangerous man with a firearm in the areas of northwest Calgary or northwest of the city limits . <p> Two people in southern Ontario are out more than $10,000 after falling victim to a grandparent scam that saw someone go to their homes pretending to be a bondsperson to pick up cash , police say.Ontario Provincial Police in Perth County say earlier this month , two people were contacted on the phone by someone who claimed to be a lawyer . The person told them a family member was in jail after a collision and needed bail money.The lawyer told the victims a bondsperson would come to the house to get <p> Three men were sentenced to 17 years in prison for invading a Hamilton home , kidnapping resident Faqir Ali and shooting both his sons -- killing one and injuring the other -- in front of his wife and two daughters.At 2:43 a.m. on Sept. 16 , 2021 , John Bartley , Antoine Chambers and Gino McCall smashed the front door of the home on Glancaster Road in Mount Hope , startling the family awake and thrusting them into a " never-ending nightmare , " Ali 's wife Fauzia told the Ontario Superior Court of Justice <p> Hostages held in Gaza were subjected to torture , including sexual and psychological abuse , starvation , burns and medical neglect , according to a new report by the Israeli Health Ministry that will be submitted to the United Nations this week . The report is based on interviews with the medical and welfare teams which treated more than 100 Israeli and foreign hostages , most of whom were released in late November 2023 , in a brief truce between Israel and Hamas . Eight hostages were rescued by the Israeli military . <p> Toronto police have issued a warning about a fraud and extortion scam in the GTA that involves threatening phone calls or text messages from U.S. phone numbers.In a public safety notice on Monday , police said the text messages contain " graphic violent images , " but they did not elaborate.The calls and texts are from American phone numbers with the area codes of 470 and 404 , police said . Both area codes are found in U.S. state of Georgia.Police said the scam is being reported with increasing frequ
