<p> Misinformation that authorities stood by and allowed pro-Palestine protesters to " take over " the Eaton Centre spread on social media and talk radio after a demonstration in the mall lasted about 10 minutes on Boxing Day . <p> Amid a crowd of shoppers , about 40 protesters with the Palestinian Youth Movement chanted " Free , free Palestine " and unfurled a large banner depicting the face of Benjamin Netanyahu . The words " Arrest this criminal " were emblazoned on the banner , in reference to an International Criminal Court arrest warrant out for the Israeli prime minister . A second , smaller banner was unfurled that read " Canada is still arming Israel . " <p> The demonstration was timed with the end of the 4 p.m. light show held at the Eaton Centre 's Christmas tree , protest organizers told TorontoToday . <p> But after about 10 minutes , the protest was dispersed by mall security and police officers who were already on-site , the Toronto Police Service ( TPS ) told TorontoToday . <p> Security and police " asked the individuals to leave the premises " and the group exited the mall " without incident by 4:15 p.m. , " media relations officer Ashley Visser said . No injuries were reported and no arrests were made , TPS added . <p> Two banners were unfurled from the second- and third-floor balconies of the Eaton Centre beside the Christmas tree / Provided <p> Despite the brief nature of the protest , the demonstration ignited a firestorm of social media commentary , resulting in " Eaton Centre " trending on X for most of Friday . Several socialmediacomments helped spread a false narrative that Toronto police and Eaton Centre security did nothing to disperse the protesters . <p> Terry Newman , a senior comment editor for the National Post , further spread the accusation in a radio interview with Spadina -- Fort York MP Kevin Vuong . Newman witnessed the protest in person and posted a video of the demonstration that quickly went viral on X after being re-shared on multipleaccounts . <p> " Security was there . They were n't doing anything , " Newman told Vuong on 640 Toronto Friday morning . ( Vuong is a regular contributor on 640 Toronto . He was ejected from the Liberal Party in 2021 due to a dropped sexual assault charge . ) <p> Timestamped videos of the protest obtained by TorontoToday confirm TPS ' timeline of events and show authorities engaged the protesters almost immediately . <p> The large banner was unfurled at 4:03 p.m. , kicking off the demonstration , video shows . Authorities in high-visibility jackets appeared two minutes later and began speaking to the protesters . Within three minutes , authorities removed the smaller banner , yanking it from the hands of protesters . <p> By 4:10 p.m. , the large banner had been removed as well , and security and police officers ushered protesters toward the exit . <p> Authorities remove a banner unfurled by the pro-Palestine protesters during a Boxing Day demonstration at the Eaton Centre / Provided <p> " We were being shoved , pushed and pressured to leave , " said Adham Diabas , an organizer with the Palestinian Youth Movement who said the protest has been spun into something much larger than it was . <p> " There 's this narrative that we took over Eaton Centre , " he said . " There was no takeover ... We were there for a total of 10 minutes . " <p> Eaton Centre owner Cadillac Fairview told TorontoToday that its security team " immediately engaged the group , who complied with direction to remove the banner and disperse from the property . " <p> " Cadillac Fairview respects the right of individuals to express their opinions through peaceful demonstrations . However , it 's crucial to highlight that our centres are private property and we neither condone nor permit these activities within our properties , " the company added . <h> Allegations of a double standard <p> When asked whether Newman stood by her claim that authorities did n't do anything to stop the protesters , she told TorontoToday " they may have cleared them eventually . " <p> She added the protest " seemed longer than 10 minutes to me " but she " did not stick around to time it . " Newman did not respond to a follow-up question about why she made such allegations on the radio if she did n't stay longer than 10 minutes to see the protest be cleared . <p> In her radio interview with Vuong , Newman used mall security 's purported lack of action to accuse Cadillac Fairview of exercising a double standard -- suggesting the corporation treated the Palestine supporters better than it treated Freedom Convoy protesters in Ottawa in 2022 . <p> Police and security formed a line near an Eaton Centre exit to prevent protesters from re-entering the mall / Provided <p> Allegations of a " double standard " were also spread by Shopify CEO Tobias Lutke , who suggested in an X post that law enforcement was giving preferential treatment to some protest movements . <p> " Some causes seem to be allowed behavior that would never be tolerated from other causes . This double standard has to stop , " he wrote , tagging Mayor Olivia Chow . <p> Lutke 's allegations come as some Palestine protesters accuse Toronto police of brutality and surveillance . One pro-Palestine protester who had charges dropped against him shared video of his arrest with media outlets that appeared to show a Toronto police officer kneeling on his neck for about eight seconds . <h> Toronto Sun columnist accuses protesters of ' lying ' about not targeting Indigo , calls for their arrest <p> Lutke 's remarks came in response to an earlier post by Toronto Sun columnist Brian Lilley , who claimed the Boxing Day protest targeted Indigo , a Canadian book store chain headed by CEO Heather Reisman . <p> Organizer Diabas told TorontoToday this is false . Palestine activists take issue with Indigo due to Reisman 's charitable support of former Israeli Defence Force soldiers through her HESEG Foundation , Diabas said , but that was n't the focus of the Boxing Day protest . <p> " The goal was to remind and , most importantly , educate the Canadian public that there is still an active genocide taking place , " Diabas said , adding that protesters reiterated their calls for an arms embargo between Canada and Israel . <p> " I think that arrests are necessary because this ... mob has been holding the city hostage since October 7 , " Lilley said by phone . " At a certain point you have to start enforcing the law . If that includes arresting people for a 10-minute demonstration like this to send a message that you are no longer in control of the streets , that you are no longer allowed to do whatever you want , then I am for that . " <p> " These are literally people who are asking for Canada to stop using our money , our taxpayer dollars , to fund and aid in the killing of their relatives , " he said . " To suppress that kind of speech should terrify every Canadian . " <p> Since the Oct. 7 , 2023 massacre of Israelis by the militant group Hamas , more than 45,000 people have been killed in Gaza , according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health , including around 14,500 young people . <p> Israel continues near daily airstrikes in the region . One UNICEF spokesperson said last week that " over 96% of women and children in Gaza can not meet their basic nutritional needs , " <p> The initial Oct. 7 attack left about 1,200 people dead and saw 254 people taken hostage by Hamas , according to the U.S. State Department . <p> Diabas said he 's not surprised by the social media reaction to the Eaton Centre protest , but he said the discomfort of having one 's Boxing Day shopping disrupted for 10 minutes pales in comparison to the plight of Gazans , who have been " burnt , bombed , starved and buried under the rubble . " <p> Diabas told TorontoToday he was born in a refugee camp in the West Bank . He said over 40 members of his family have been killed in Gaza . <p> Diabas was arrested and charged with assault with a weapon for allegedly throwing a water bottle at police during a pro-Palestine protest . He told TorontoToday the charges are " bogus " and he expects them to be dropped .
