<h> Fred Lum <p> In 2024 , Mr. Lum marked his 40th anniversary as a staff photographer , and in some ways , the history he chronicled had come full circle . The Globe hired Mr. Lum in September , 1984 , the month of the federal election that first brought Brian Mulroney 's Progressive Conservatives to power . When the former prime minister passed away this February , Mr. Lum and reporter Fr ? d ? rik-Xavier D. Plante set off to Baie-Comeau , Que. , to hear locals ' stories about the hometown son . <p> Plans for Mr. Mulroney 's state funeral took shape while they were there , and Mr. Lum backtracked to Montreal to cover the service . " It was a cold , wet snowy day " of waiting across the street for dignitaries to arrive and leave , Mr. Lum says , " but this is what we do . " <p> Mila Mulroney , in dark glasses , watches as pallbearers take husband Brian 's casket away from Notre-Dame Basilica on March 23 . Caroline Mulroney , at right , eulogized her father and was in tears as she described the 84-year-old 's final days in Palm Beach , Fla. , where he was hospitalized after a fall . <p> James Gott , a Winnipegger from Sapotaweyak Cree Nation , spent time with Mr. Lum for a story about diabetic amputations , showing the tricky process of putting on and removing his prosthetics . Mr. Lum said his job in sensitive situations is to respectfully ' help tell the story that needs to be told . ' Mr. Lum originally planned to be in Kingston for April 's eclipse , but cloudy forecasts sent him east to Brockville and then Cornwall , where he watched the cosmic show unfold at Lamoureux Park . Darkness brought a roar from the crowd , then a hush , except for camera sounds . <p> April was sakura season in High Park , an eruption of pink cherry blossoms that thousands of Torontonians come to see each year . ' Most photos are often closeups of the blossoms and people posing for photos beside them , ' Mr. Lum says , but he tried for something different from farther away . Mr. Lum 's shots of October gridlock on the 401 were for a story about worsening traffic in Toronto . Avoiding clich ? s in such assignments is a challenge , Mr. Lum says ; he waited for darkness to fall so he could get the right scene of the ' ordeal drivers still faced before they could get home . ' <h> Melissa Tait <p> One of Ms. Tait 's favourite images of 2024 was an adorable epilogue to an assignment from the year before . <p> Adrial and Adiah Nadarajah were born 22 weeks and zero days into their mother 's pregnancy , a world record for surviving . Ms. Tait photographed them for a 2023 profile published soon after their first birthday , in which health reporter Kelly Grant explored the ethical questions around the babies ' care . Ms. Tait saw the twins again this past March at their second birthday party , where Adrial was walking confidently , something doctors feared he might never do . <p> They also have a new sibling : after new baby Alissa was born in November , the parents said the twins were " chatty , with big personalities , and in love with their little sister . " <p> Kevin Nadarajah and Shakina Rajendram -- with son Adrial and daughter Adiah , respectively -- celebrated the twins ' second birthdays in Pickering , Ont. , on March 2 . Ms. Rajendram , whose delivery set a world record among premature births , said the couple was relieved to feel like typical parents at last . <p> Grand Touring Automobiles on Dundas Street East became a lake on July 16 , when heavy rain burst the banks of Toronto 's Don River . These vehicles had no one inside , but not so on the Don Valley Parkway , where first responders worked to rescue stranded motorists . Gukesh Dommaraju , an Indian grandmaster , waits for an opponent ahead of an April 18 match at the Candidates Tournament of chess in Toronto . where he became the youngest-ever winner . Eight months later in Singapore , he took the world champion title from Ding Liren of China . <p> King 's College Circle was a patchwork of yellowed grass on July 3 , after a pro-Palestinian encampment heeded a court order to clear out or be removed by police . The University of Toronto was one of several Canadian schools where students set up camp that summer to oppose Israel 's invasion of Gaza . <h> Goran Tomasevic <p> Haiti and Lebanon were among the world 's least safe places to be this year , but Goran Tomasevic went anyway . In Port-au-Prince , the dangers he faced came mostly from street level -- gangs , rebelling against the dysfunctional state , had seized control of most of the city -- while in Lebanon , Israeli and Hezbollah rockets were unpredictable threats from above . <p> Dead bodies were an inescapable sight , and Mr. Tomasevic and his editors had to choose carefully which photos to publish : showing just enough graphic detail can kindle compassion for the suffering of others , but showing too much -- or framing it tastelessly -- will only traumatize the reader . Sometimes , the absence of people is equally disturbing : in southern Lebanon , a horse in a long-abandoned market stall was a " surreal " scene , Mr. Tomasevic said . " Unlike anything I 've seen in past assignments . " <p> The gang that Goran Tomasevic found at a gas station in Mariani , outside Port-au-Prince , controlled a road connecting five departments of Haiti to the capital . A federation of armed groups had risen up against the government a month earlier , when the acting prime minister was on an official trip to Kenya . <p> Many fighters hide their faces so that , if law and order is ever restored , they will be harder to prosecute . Near a charred police vehicle and dead body , one man wore a Ghost Face mask from the Scream films ; another faction , holed up in a medical clinic in Delmas , sported ski masks , stockings and other garments . <p> In Maasryah , northern Lebanon , a Maronite Christian priest joined the Muslim funeral rites for victims of Israeli air strikes on Oct. 14 . Crowds of civilians were a rarer occurence in the south , where Mr. Tomasevic found residents had largely fled , leaving their animals behind . <h> Deborah Baic <p> Photo and video journalist Deborah Baic had less time for assignments in the field in 2024 , but when she did go out , it was to a place dear to her heart : Sault Ste. Marie , where she grew up . <p> Algoma Steel , the region 's largest employer , is upgrading its Sault plant to emit less carbon dioxide and other pollutants , so she and energy reporter Jeffrey Jones went to see that work in progress . <p> Other Saultites shared a less hopeful story about the state of local medicine : cutbacks at a community clinic -- which a steelworkers union had fought to build in the days before universal health care -- left more than 10,000 people without a family doctor . <p> Algoma Steel 's No. 7 furnace takes in iron ore , limestone and coke and turns out the red-hot iron used to make steel . Once upgraded , the Sault Ste. Marie plant will forgo blast furnaces , with their high carbon footprint , and instead melt scrap metal with powerful arcs of electricity . <p> Family physician Melissa Hemy gives nine-month-old Kinsey Cross her checkup at Group Health Centre in mid-April . Six weeks later , the Sault Ste. Marie clinic would cut off 10,000 of its 60,000 patients from primary care because it was short-staffed -- a common complaint at hospitals across Ontario recently . Retired steelworker Barry Armstrong , at home with wife Dianne , helped finance the creation of Group Health Centre in the 1960s -- but this year , it derostered him . ' I know I 'm never going to have a family doctor before I die , ' the 85-year-old told The Globe this spring .
