<p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu underwent successful surgery Sunday to have his prostate removed , hospital officials said , a procedure that came as he manages multiple crises including the war in Gaza and his trial for alleged corruption . <p> Netanyahu , who has had a series of health issues in recent years , has gone to great lengths to bolster a public image of himself as a healthy , energetic leader . During his trial this month , he boasted about working 18-hour days , accompanied by a cigar . But as Israel 's longest-serving leader , such a grueling workload over a total of 17 years in power could take a toll on his well-being . <p> Netanyahu 's latest condition is common in older men , but the procedure has had some fallout . The judges overseeing his trial accepted a request from his lawyer on Sunday to call off three days of testimony scheduled this week . The lawyer , Amit Hadad , had argued that Netanyahu would be fully sedated for the procedure and hospitalized for " a number of days . " <p> Dr. Ofer Gofrit , head of the urology department at Jerusalem 's Hadassah Medical Center , said in a video statement late Sunday that the procedure had gone well and " there was no fear " of cancer or malignancy . " We only hope for the best , " he said . <p> In a statement , Netanyahu thanked his doctors . His office said he was " fully alert " and was taken to an underground recovery unit fortified against potential missile attacks . Netanyahu was expected to remain in the hospital for several days of observation . <p> Justice Minister Yariv Levin , a close ally , served as acting prime minister during the operation . <p> With so much at stake , Netanyahu 's health in wartime is a concern for both Israelis and the wider world . <p> A turbulent time in the region <p> As Israel 's leader , Netanyahu is at the center of major global events that are shifting the Middle East . With the dizzying pace of the past 14 months , being incapacitated for even a few hours can be risky . <p> Prostate issues are common and in many cases easily treatable . Still , the procedure puts a dent in Netanyahu 's image of vigor at a time when he would want to project strength more than ever , both to an Israeli audience navigating constant threats as well as to Israel 's enemies looking to expose its weaknesses . <p> Previous health issues , including a heart condition <p> Netanyahu insists he is in excellent health . His office releases footage of him touring war zones in full protective gear flanked by military officers , or meeting with defense officials on windswept hilltops in youthful dark shades and puffer jackets . <p> But that image was shattered last year when Netanyahu 's doctors revealed that he had a heart condition , a problem that he had apparently long known about but concealed from the public . <p> A week after a fainting spell , Netanyahu was fitted with a pacemaker to control his heartbeat . Only then did staff at the Sheba Medical Center reveal that Netanyahu has for years experienced a condition that can cause irregular heartbeats . <p> The revelation came as Netanyahu was dealing with massive anti-government protests . The news about a chronic heart problem stoked further anger and distrust during extreme political polarization in Israel . <p> Last year , Netanyahu was rushed to the hospital for what doctors said likely was dehydration . He stayed overnight , prompting his weekly Cabinet meeting to be delayed . <p> Earlier this year , Netanyahu underwent hernia surgery , during which he was under full anesthesia and unconscious . Levin served as acting prime minister during the operation . <p> Recovery can be quick <p> According to Netanyahu 's office , the Israeli leader was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection on Wednesday stemming from a benign enlargement of his prostate . The infection was treated successfully with antibiotics , but doctors said the surgery was needed in any case . <p> Complications from prostate enlargement are common in men in their 70s and 80s , Dr. Shay Golan , head of the oncology urology service at Israel 's Rabin Medical Center , told Israeli Army Radio . Golan spoke in general terms and was not involved in Netanyahu 's care or treatment . <p> He said an enlarged prostate can block proper emptying of the bladder , leading to a build-up of urine that can lead to an infection or other complications . After medicinal treatment , doctors can recommend a procedure to remove the prostate to prevent future blockages , Golan said . <p> In Netanyahu 's case , because the prostate is not cancerous , Golan said doctors were likely performing an endoscopic surgery , carried out by inserting small instruments into a body cavity , rather than making surgical cuts in the abdomen to reach the prostate . <p> The procedure lasts about an hour , Golan said , and recovery is quick . He said that aside from catheter use for one to three days after the procedure , patients can return to normal activity without significant limitations .
