<h> Quebec heritage site , former home of renowned artist , destroyed by fire <p> Morgan Lowrie <p> December 31 , 2024 at 10:25 a.m. *3 min read <p> MONTREAL -- A Quebec heritage site on the Island of Montreal that was the former home of a renowned artist has been destroyed in a fire . <p> A Montreal fire department spokesperson says it took some 40 firefighters about five hours to extinguish the blaze that began Sunday night at the vacant residence in the on-island suburb of Kirkland . <p> The former home belonged to Charles Daudelin , a well-known sculptor and painter whose art has been displayed in Ottawa , Quebec , Montreal , Charlottetown and Paris . <p> " It 's a great loss for Kirkland , " said Mayor Michel Gibson . " It was part of our heritage . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Built beginning in 1951 and later enlarged , the flat-roofed , cedar-clad building , as well as its stand-alone studio , was Daudelin 's home and workplace for some 50 years until his death in 2001 . It was built from plans designed by Charles Elliott Trudeau , an architect who was the brother of former prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau . <p> Gibson said the studio was not destroyed in the fire . <p> Fire department spokesperson ? milie Barbeau-Charlebois says the cause of the fire is undetermined but there is nothing to suggest it was criminal in nature . <p> Kirkland records show that the owners were seeking permission to demolish the building in October 2022 ; however , the province announced its intention to designate it as a heritage site soon afterward . Gibson said a member of Daudelin 's family asked the government to preserve the house , which had been unoccupied for several years . <p> Culture Minister Mathieu Lacombe described the 1950s-era home and its studio in a December 2022 news release as " important witnesses to the cultural heritage of Quebec . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> In response to questions about the fire , Lacombe 's office said late Monday that it was in contact with authorities in Kirkland and was " following the situation closely . " <p> " Since the classification of the site , the Department of Culture and Communications has accompanied and supported the owners so that the work required to preserve the building is carried out and that an expansion and restoration project for the Maison Charles-Daudelin can ensure the sustainability of this exceptional property , " Lacombe 's office said in an email . <p> Quebec 's heritage listing says the home and the studio " eloquently respond to the evolution of the artist 's needs throughout his career . " <p> " The abundant windows of the house and workshop offer views onto the gardens , which create close links between the living and creative spaces , both inside and outside the buildings , " it continued . <p> The site was last valued at just over $2 million , Montreal property records show . On Monday , only a twisted frame remained . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Daudelin was born in Granby , Que. , in 1920 but moved to Montreal to study in his late teens . His long career included painting , sculpting , goldsmithing and ceramics . His creations and public art were found in a number of prominent public places , including the National Arts Centre in Ottawa , the Montreal courthouse , and Place des Arts . One of his fountains was erected outside Charlottetown 's legislature , while another is found at Place du Qu ? bec in Paris . <p> He was named a grand officer of the Order of Quebec in 1998 . <p> A street in Kirkland has been named after Daudelin , and Gibson said the town commissioned one of his fountains years ago , which sits in front of the town hall . " At least we 've got something with us that will stay for a long time , " he said . <p> This report by The Canadian Press was first published Dec. 31 , 2024 . <p> Morgan Lowrie , The Canadian Press <h> Latest Stories <p> MONTREAL -- Municipal leaders across Quebec are looking for ways to get young people , especially women , to run for local office in next year 's elections , but that is a tall order given the well-documented incidents of harassment and intimidation faced by elected officials in the province . <p> New rules governing the sales of machetes and other long-blade weapons in Manitoba come into effect Tuesday.Retailers are required to keep the items stored in a way so shoppers ca n't access them without assistance.Businesses are also required to sell only to adults with photo identification and to keep records of their sales for two years . <p> U.S. Navy ships and aircraft targeted a Houthi command and control facility and advanced conventional weapon production and storage facilities that included missiles and uncrewed aerial vehicles , the Central Command said . <p> Heritage advocates are struggling to understand why the famous home and workshop of a Quebec sculptor in Montreal 's West Island was destroyed by a fire that broke out on Sunday night.The house , built in 1951 and expanded in 1986 , has historical value as it was once the living and creative quarters of Quebec sculptor Charles Daudelin until his death on April 2 , 2001 . Maison Charles-Daudelin , located at the intersection of Ste-Marie Road and de l'Artiste Street in a wooded area of a Kirkland resid <p> Brandon Police are investigating the death of a man while in Brandon Correctional Centre custody.The victim , a 23-year-old man , was being held in custody at the medium-security jail when an assault occurred Sunday , says Staff Sgt. Kirby Sararas . Police arrived on scene at 5:30 p.m . " When members arrived the ... victim was being tended to by paramedics before being taken to the hospital where he was pronounced deceased , " Sararas said . <p> With more than a three-metre snowbase , this Canadian ski resort has some of the deepest powder in North America so far -- -- outshining formidable competitors south of the border , including Timberline Lodge in Oregon and Mount Baker in Washington . <p> It was a busy year for Ottawa police . There were 25 homicide victims in 2024 -- police say it 's a record -- including March 's mass killing in Barrhaven that took six lives.Protests put demands on police resources , from repeated pro-Palestinian demonstrations against the war in Gaza to a return of supporters of the self-described " Freedom Convoy " to Parliament Hill.And the long-awaited inquest into the death of Abdirahman Abdi refocused attention on how officers deal with mental illness and the for <p> As people prepare to ring in the new year , it might be interesting to note how much glitter is around.Glitter can often be found in the air as confetti , on celebratory hats and glasses , on decorations , but there 's a push to use less as concerns about glitter 's environmental impact grows.John Galbraith is the owner of Doll Haus Events . This New Year 's Eve , his company is hosting a Roaring Drag Ball extravaganza with drag performances , glitz and glamour at The Albion in Guelph , Ont . But there will <p> The Somerset Acres project will see 21 previously homeless individuals move in during the holidays . The project is turning large mobile trailers into 18 bachelor-like apartments with wraparound support services in response to the city 's housing crisis . <p> CBC Quebec is highlighting people from the province 's Black communities who are giving back , inspiring others and helping to shape our future . These are the 2024 Black Changemakers.When Joan Kirton was around 13 years old , she would ignite her mother 's irritation , taking fabric from her sister -- a dressmaker -- to craft clothes for children in need across the parish of Saint-Michael in Barbados . " My mom said , ' One day , you 're going to give away your whole face and you 're going to have nothing lef <p> The Karma Closet began as a supply room for those in need . But the initiative at Northumberland Regional High School has grown into a lunch program with positive impacts that go beyond the cafeteria . The CBC 's Jeff Douglas paid a visit to the school . <p> Some contaminated soil from a diesel spill in Pond Inlet earlier this year ca n't be cleaned up due to the need to preserve the structural integrity of the area that 's propping up the pipe.On June 11 , Nunavut 's Petroleum Products Division ( PPD ) discovered7,000 litres of diesel had leaked out of a 950-metre pipe that was damaged by the extreme cold over the previous winter . CBC has obtained a copy of the final report by the environmental consultant company , Qikiqtaaluk Environmental Inc . ( QE ) , fro <p> While reflecting on 2024 , many landowners in Wilmot Township say their lives were turned upside down and they 're now playing the waiting game heading into the new year . In March , 12 township landowners of six farm properties and six residential properties were approached by Region of Waterloo representatives and told the region planned to purchase their land.In total , the region has been trying to acquire 770 acres of land ( 312 hectares ) near the intersection of Nafziger Road and Bleams Road , fo
