<h> Recovering Netanyahu gets up from hospital to rally support for Israel budget <p> JERUSALEM ( Reuters ) - Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu got up from his hospital bed to call on unruly coalition partners to fall in line and back his government 's 2025 budget after hardline rebels threatened to pull support for the bill . <p> Netanyahu , recovering from prostate surgery , came to the Knesset against the recommendation of his doctors to ensure the passing of legislation aimed at increasing state revenues after the far-right public security minister Itamar Ben Gvir and ultra-Orthodox parties said they might vote against the law or abstain . <p> The bill , a wartime austerity package of tax hikes and spending cuts , passed narrowly but the opposition was another sign of ever-widening cracks in Netanyahu 's coalition , the furthest right in Israel 's history . <p> " I expect all the members of the coalition , including Minister Ben-Gvir , to stop rattling the coalition and endangering the existence of a right-wing government , " Netanyahu said on Tuesday . <p> Ben Gvir has demanded more funding for the Israeli police which his office oversees , and ultra-Orthodox parties have expressed opposition to legislation that would force some members of its communities to enlist in the military . <p> The budget next goes to the Knesset finance and other committees , where it could face changes . It is not expected to be fully approved until at least January . Failure to approve the budget by March 31 would trigger new elections . <p> Netanyahu in September sought to bolster his coalition , which had a 64-56 edge in the Knesset , by bringing in opposition lawmaker Gideon Saar and his four seats in the New Hope party , enabling him to be less reliant on other members of his ruling coalition . Saar last month was named foreign minister . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Israel 's economy has taken a hit since the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack by Palestinian Hamas militants and the ensuing war in Gaza and on other fronts . <p> There has been zero growth but supply issues have pushed up inflation , and the cost of living for Israelis has soared . <p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu underwent successful surgery Sunday to have his prostate removed , hospital officials said , a procedure that came as he manages multiple crises including the war in Gaza and his trial for alleged corruption . <p> A partial telecommunications outage that affected calling across Canada 's North has been resolved , Northwestel said late Monday night . The outage affected calling from landlines to cellphones and cellphones to landlines . Telecommunications in the Yukon , Northwest Territories , Nunavut and parts of northern B.C. and northern Alberta were affected . In an emergency , people were advised to call 911 from both a cellphone and a landline , because the call may go through.If neither worked , people were to <p> It 's a quiet evening in the emergency room of the Port-Cartier health and social services centre in Quebec 's C ? te-Nord region . Two patients are lying on hospital beds . One nurse treats about three patients an hour.It 's exactly the lifestyle Pierre-Luc Grenier is looking for after a grueling 20-year career working in Quebec City 's hospitals and with the province 's aeromedical evacuation program ( EVAQ ) . " For me , being in Port-Cartier right now is truly total bliss . I 'm crossing my fingers that I w <p> Inspecting the surviving vines in her Naramata B.C. , winery , Dallas Thor is still recovering from the January 2024 deep cold snap that froze delicate budding grapes throughout the Okanagan Valley . " We have less than a one per cent crop of grapes this vintage , so we had to do something drastic , " she said . " We had to be creative . We had to branch out and look at how to turn this thing upside down and do something positive . " Hundreds of Okanagan wineries , like Thor 's Terravista Vineyards , faced the po <p> New rules governing the sales of machetes and other long-blade weapons in Manitoba come into effect Tuesday.Retailers are required to keep the items stored in a way so shoppers ca n't access them without assistance.Businesses are also required to sell only to adults with photo identification and to keep records of their sales for two years . <p> Commuters may continue to use their old hard-shell MacPass transponders past the Dec. 31 deadline , according to a news release from Halifax Harbour Bridges on Tuesday.Halifax Harbour Bridges announced in May that the old transponders would be phased out by year 's end.It said the old system was around 25-years-old and had reached the end of its useful life.The release said the deadline to switch to new sticker transponders has been postponed while it works with the province to remove tolls.In Oct <p> A Winnipeg firefighter was injured battling an early morning blaze in the William Whyte neighbourhood.Fire crews responded to reports of a house fire on Aberdeen Avenue , between Powers and McGregor streets , shortly after 5 a.m . Tuesday , according to a news release from the city.Firefighters brought the fire under control just after 6 a.m.The home 's residents were able to escape without injury before emergency crews arrived , and received temporary support from the emergency social services team , <p> A new report on media communications in Canada asks if Starlink could pose a threat to northern communities . Dwayne Winseck , professor at the School of Journalism and Communication at Carleton University and director of the Global Media and Internet Concentration Project released a report on the subject this month . This year , Winseck said he began looking deeper into Starlink 's fast growing presence in Canada and where it stands within the overall communications landscape , with focus on its rapi <p> Ben Candow is the manager of Bergs Famous Fireworks , known as Bergs Famous Ice Cream during other times of the year . ( Patrick Butler/Radio-Canada ) For Bergs Famous Ice Cream in Manuels , the end of December is a magical time -- a time when the shop transforms into Bergs Famous Fireworks . It 's the biggest day of the year for the temporary firework store , managed by Ben Candow , who told Radio-Canada that this year the shop is offering its biggest selection of fireworks ever , with 150 different cakes . <p> A Manitoba judge has ordered protesters camping outside the Lemay Forest in Winnipeg 's St. Norbert 's neighbourhood to stop blocking entry to the privately owned area.Court of King 's Bench Justice Sarah Inness granted the injunction Monday afternoon , ordering over a dozen people alleged to be participating in the blockade to stop preventing access to the roughly seven hectares of forest land owned by Tochal Development Group south of the Perimeter Highway . <p> EDITOR 'S NOTE : CBC has removed the name and photo from this story . Now that this person is no longer missing , the identity is no longer in the public interest.Laval police say a 13-year-old girl who went missing was found safe and sound.She had last been seen on Dec.29 . <p> Rep. Chip Roy ( R-Texas ) said Tuesday that Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) does not have the votes to keep the gavel and that he remains undecided on whether he can support the Louisiana Republican in the Friday floor vote , despite President-elect Trump endorsing Johnson . " I remain undecided , as do a number of my colleagues , because we ... <p> Brandon Police are investigating the death of a man while in Brandon Correctional Centre custody.The victim , a 23-year-old man , was being held in custody at the medium-security jail when an assault occurred Sunday , says Staff Sgt. Kirby Sararas . Police arrived on scene at 5:30 p.m . " When members arrived the ... victim was being tended to by paramedics before being taken to the hospital where he was pronounced deceased , " Sararas said . <p> Defense forces will become de facto police officers and both are allowed to conduct searches without a warrant , Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister Stuart Young said at a press conference . On Saturday , armed gunmen shot at a known gang leader who was leaving the police station , killing a member of his crew , according to Trinidad and Tobago Newsday . The report did not name the gang leader . <p> Ukraine 's general staff said on the Telegram app that the depot was used for military purposes . Smolensk region governor Vasily Anokhin said that the attack caused a fuel spill and fire . According to his statement on Telegram , 10 Ukrainian drones were shot down by Russian air defences but the wreckage of one of them fell on the oil facility . <p> And there 's more political turmoil for Justin Trudeau . The Atlantic Liberal caucus is now calling for him to step down as party leader . MPs sent a letter to Trudeau following a caucus meeting Monday asking him to resign . Mackenzie Gray is tracking this story .
