<p> For the past 14 months , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya has faced Israel 's war on Gaza 's health care system head-on , documenting to the world his fight as a physician to treat patients and keep his hospital in the north afloat despite constant bombardment , depleted humanitarian aid , a painful shrapnel injury and the killing of his own son . <p> " I think it 's important to have voices like him , because sometimes we 're buried by numbers ? you know , more than 1,000 medical professionals in Gaza were killed , " Dr. Zaher Sahloul , president of MedGlobal , told HuffPost on Monday . " Numbers mean something to maybe people who follow statistics , but for an average person they need to know who are these people . " <p> " He was the face of the medical community in Gaza , and the face of being a doctor , a humanitarian , a compassionate person who cares about having ventilators to his patients , and incubators to his neonatal intensive care unit , and medicine to the patients who have chronic diseases , " Sahloul continued . " And he showed that day after day after day . " <p> " The IDF entered the hospital over the past year four times , and they interrogated Abu Safiya four times , and they searched every place in the hospital . So if there 's anything that could have been suspicious , they would have found it a long time ago , " Sahloul said . " So all of these talks about being a Hamas center and things like that is nonsense . No one believes these things anymore . " <p> Despite soldiers telling Abu Safiya that he was free to leave , the doctor reportedly refused to abandon his medical team at the hospital . <p> Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya ( center ) , director of Kamal Adwan Hospital , supervises the treatment of a Palestinian man who was injured in an Israeli strike on Beit Lahia in the northern Gaza Strip on Nov. 21 , 2024 . <p> Israeli army footage of the arrest shows what appears to be the last time Abu Safiya was seen before his detention , with soldiers shaking his hand , addressing him as " Doctor " and having him enter their tank with them . Abu Safiya , still wearing his white coat , can be seen telling the soldiers that there is no one left inside Kamal Adwan Hospital . <p> Witnesses , some of them prisoners who have since been released , said the doctor showed signs of having undergone torture and beatings ? testimony that dovetails with previous extensive reporting on the conditions and inhumane treatment that prisoners , including health care workers , face at alleged torture camps like Sde Teiman . <p> " Today , while he is being forced to stay in the Israeli Sde Teiman detention camp , known for its brutality against the prisoners imprisoned there , " the doctor 's son , Idris Abu Safiya , said in a video Monday . " We have received testimonies from released detainees confirming he was subjected to humiliation and abuse , including forcing him to undress and using him as a human shield . " <p> " We call upon all international institutions and human rights organizations ... and every person of living conscience and all doctors in the world to take urgent and immediate action to pressure the occupation authorities to release my father , Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , before he meets the fate of many doctors and medical workers , " Idris Abu Safiya said . <p> Groups like the World Health Organization , Amnesty International and the Council on American-Islamic Relations have demanded that Israeli forces release Abu Safiya from captivity and stop targeting Gaza 's hospitals and health care workers . Sahloul said that he and Abu Safiya 's family have asked U.S. President Joe Biden , Secretary of State Antony Blinken and President-elect Donald Trump to pressure the Israeli government to release the hospital director and his colleagues . <p> The State Department is " aware of reports and still gathering information , " a spokesperson told HuffPost on Monday , adding that claims of Hamas operating in hospitals present Israel with " an unusual burden " but that Israel should do more to curb civilian casualties . The agency did not say whether it would pressure Israel to release Abu Safiya . <p> Advertisement <p> " As we have said before , we do not want to see firefights in hospitals where innocent people and patients receiving medical care are caught in the crossfire , and we have had active consultations with the Israeli Defense Forces on this , " the spokesperson said . " We call on all parties of the conflict to respect the protected status of these facilities and to avoid harm to civilians receiving treatment and humanitarian workers providing that care . " <p> HuffPost published a report in October detailing how the Israeli military is ensuring the long-term decimation of the Palestinian people by targeting Gaza 's health care system , preventing people from receiving treatment for the malnutrition and diseases that result from mass displacement and destroyed sanitation infrastructure . Amid the ongoing destruction , Abu Safiya had become one of the last doctors in northern Gaza and the voice of the territory 's medical community . <h> We Need Your Support <p> Other news outlets have retreated behind paywalls . At HuffPost , we believe journalism should be free for everyone . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give once or many more times , we appreciate your contribution to keeping our journalism free for all . <p> You 've supported HuffPost before , and we 'll be honest -- we could use your help again . We view our mission to provide free , fair news as critically important in this crucial moment , and we ca n't do it without you . <p> Whether you give just one more time or sign up again to contribute regularly , we appreciate you playing a part in keeping our journalism free for all . <p> " He told me one time that he will provide the same care to an injured Israeli soldier , similar to a Palestinian child who ended up in his hospital , " Sahloul said . " He is the essence of being a physician and humanitarian , and he deserves to have the Nobel Peace Prize . Not to be detained and injured . "
