<p> Marrakech Film Festival Director Melita Toscan du Plantier has been attracting the biggest names in Hollywood and beyond to the event which showcases rising Moroccan directors . <p> Getty Images <p> From Jacob Elordi 's new bearded look to Sean Penn 's red carpet debut with girlfriend Valeria Nicov , this year 's Marrakech Film Festival has been making headlines in mainstream media like it never did before . Yet , the event has existed for 21 years . <p> For over two decades , the festival has indeed played a pivotal role in fostering a new generation of filmmakers from the Arab world , especially Morocco , fueled by the ambition of Marrakech Film Festival director Melita Toscan du Plantier , a Paris-based producer , cinephile and straight shooter . The Marrakech adventure kicked off in 2001 , when her late husband , Daniel Toscan du Plantier , an influential French producer , was asked by Morocco 's King Mohammed VI to help create the film festival . A year later , HRH Prince Moulay Rachid took over as president of the festival and its foundation , and when Daniel Toscan du Plantier died abruptly in 2003 , Melita took the reins . <h> Related Stories <p> Today , Melita Toscan du Plantier , who lives and breathes Marrakech Film Festival all year around , has succeeded in establishing the event as a significant international film festival rather than a mere red-carpet event in a fiercely competitive environment . Through her wide-ranging friendships , she 's managed to bring onto the festival some of the world 's most prestigious filmmakers and talent -- from Martin Scorsese to Robert de Niro and Agnes Varda -- to shine a spotlight on emerging Arab directors . <h> Popular on Variety <p> Toscan du Plantier has this year scored the biggest coup of her career at Marrakech fest , enlisting Luca Guadagnino as president of a jury comprising Jacob Elordi , Andrew Garfield , Patricia Arquette and Ali Abbasi , among others . The roster of masterclasses is equally impressive , with Justin Kurzel ( whose movie " The Order " opened the festival ) , David Cronenberg , Sean Penn , Justine Triet , Tim Burton , Alfonso Cuaron , Todd Haynes and Walter Salles , among others . <p> " I just read somewhere that I organize this festival like the wedding of my child , and I think that description nails it , " says Toscan du Plantier on day 2 of the festival . Always alert in spite of having slept three hours for five consecutive days ( from what she says ) , she admits being " obsessively perfectionist " during a quick conversation interrupted by a dozen calls and text messages revealing the extent of her involvement in every logistical aspect of the festival and caretaking for guests ( she may even know what they ate for breakfast ) . <p> A week ago , during an interview at her Paris-based office ( which was entirely decorated by her staff for her birthday ) , Toscan du Plantier said the festival 's emphasis on mentorship has translated into real success for emerging filmmakers , citing Ismae El Moudir whose movie " The Mother Of All Lies " made history last year as the first Moroccan film to win the festival 's top prize , the ? toile D'Or , from a jury presided over by Jessica Chastain . " The Mother of All Lies , " which opened at Un Certain Regard at Cannes , went on to represent Morocco in the international feature race at the Oscars . She also cited Sofia Alaoui whose film " Animalia " played at Sundance , as well as Maryam Touzani ( " Adam , " " The Blue Caftan " ) , Yasmine Benkiran ( " Reines " ) , Meryem Benm'barek ( " Sophia " ) , Alaa Eddine Aljem ( " Le miracle du saint Inconnu " ) , Isma ? l El Iraki ( Zanka Contact ) , Kamal Lazraq ( Les Meutes ) and Sa ? d Hamich whose film " La mer au loin " plays in competition this year . <p> " It 's a new generation that 's making a name for itself at the world 's biggest film festivals , and the majority of these newcomers are women , which is historic for Moroccan cinema , which has never had so many female directors , " said Toscan du Plantier . El Moudir 's film , for instance , was discovered by the director of the Sydney Film Festival at the Atlas Workshops , Marrakech 's industry sidebar , before it even played at Cannes , and programmed it at his festival in Sydney where it won best film . <p> " When my husband and I started the festival the first year , there were four Moroccan films a year . Today , there are about 35 of them , " she said . " Moroccan cinema has grown enormously over the years , and is highlighted by the Marrakech Festival . " <p> The fest has also contributed to giving Marrakech audiences " a taste for auteur films that are seldom distributed in Morocco " where " only big films that are either American , Egyptian or Bollywood films are released in theaters , " argues Toscan du Plantier . <p> The festival showcases films " from all over the world , from Japan , Korea , Poland , Brazil , etc. and all these films that are often socially minded movies , too , " she said , adding that she likes the idea that people " who do n't travel or travel very little , have this opportunity to see the world through these movies . " <p> Referring to the fast-expanding industry sidebar , the Atlas Workshops , overseen by the festival 's artistic director , Remi Bonhomme , Toscan du Plantier said it 's become a " key platform for a new generation of Moroccan filmmakers and producers who are making strides . " <p> She and Bonhomme form a dynamic duo surrounded by a team of fairly young people from different parts of the world . " In the office , we have people from Lebanon , Jordan , Tunisia and Morocco , among other places , and they come here to work with us on the artistic side , and we like the idea of transmission , " said the festival director , who started her career in the industry at the French promotion org Unifrance , where she met her husband Daniel , who was then its president . <p> The pedigree of talent she brought to Marrakech this year makes her " proud " on a personal level , because it took an infinite amount of work , but " above all , it 's about mentorship because directors who present their movies here know that their work will be seen by talent and filmmakers they admire . " <p> Moroccan film students , too , " will be able to exchange ideas with the world 's greatest directors and without the Marrakech Festival , they might never have had this experience , " she said . <p> At major film festivals such as Cannes or Venice , masterclasses are n't open to the public , but at Marrakech anyone can attend for free , as long as they 've registered online . The crowd is made up of film students , locals , journalists from national and international outlets , as well as talent . " The year we had Robert de Niro , everyone was in the room , including Guillermo del Toro , Tahar Rahim , Julian Schnabel and Gilles Lellouche ! " she reminisced . <p> It 's her late husband , she said , who was her mentor and " gave her a taste for directors . " No wonder why Guadagnino referred to her as the " godmother of filmmakers " in his speech at the opening ceremony of the festival . <p> " I know a lot of international actors , but it 's the directors I 'm passionate about and I think they can feel my passion . They know I 'm sincere , " she said . " I 'm much more enthused by the idea of having dinner with Martin Scorsese , Alfonso Cuaron or Walter Salles or Justin Kurzel and talk about movies for hours than anything else . " <p> Penn , who received a tribute on Saturday night ( the first in many years ) , will give a rare masterclass at the festival . " He 's very reserved and shy and prefers to talk about humanitarian causes he cares about , for instance in Haiti and Ukraine , rather than talking about himself . " <p> " The idea of mentorship , of exchanging with young film lovers and students is what appealed to them , " she said , referring to Penn and Todd Haynes , among others . " Sean really wants to meet young people and he was eager to meet Ismae El Moudir because he loved her movie ' The Mother of All Lies ' and was impressed by her talent . ' Todd also said right away , I really want to come and talk to young students . " <p> " At a lot of festivals , people who come are a bit jaded , but that 's not the case here . Moroccans know that being able to listen to great directors discuss their work , their point of view on the world , is a gift . These artists come here to give . It 's very generous of them because they do n't get paid to do it , " Toscan du Plantier noted . This year , she was able to get Garfield through Guadagnino , because the pair just worked together on the thriller " After The Hunt . " She then lured Elordi after meeting in Australia on the shoot of " The Narrow Road to the Deep North , " a miniseries directed by Kurzel , a longtime friend of Toscan du Plantier . Del Toro , another friend of the festival who just directed Elordi in " Frankenstein , " also helped enticing the actor . <p> " To get certain personalities , I pass on messages from others who have already been here , from ambassadors like Martin Scorsese , who is our godfather , who has been here seven times , " said Toscan du Plantier . " Sometimes , he can help me contact someone or put in a good word about the Marrakech Festival . And the same is happening with Guillermo Del Toro and Justin Kurzel , or Luca Guadagnino . " <p> Ultimately , the festival also has played a role in bringing people together at a time of geo-political turmoils , going back to its inaugural edition which took place in the aftermath of the terror attacks of 9/11 . <p> " Morocco is a land of exchange , a welcoming land . Back in 2001 , when we started the festival after the terrorist attacks , it was great to see all these nationalities , all these religions together on Muslim soil , 15 days after the attacks claimed by extremists , " she said . " But that at the time , His Majesty the King , Mohamed VI wanted to maintain the festival that year , despite everything , and to welcome all the people who dared to come , because many people were even afraid to take the plane . " <p> Ultimately , " people from all over the world came to talk about culture and cinema , and it was , I must admit , quite a magical atmosphere , " she said . <p> Last year , was also a particular edition as it unfolded just a little over a month following the Oct. 7th massacre , as the war in Gaza was raging . <p> " We were going through a period when all we talked about was division , and at the festival , all we talked about was uniting people , bringing them together through cinema . So it was complicated , and at the same time , it was powerful , " she said , also praising HRH Prince Moulay Rachid for his involvement and support for the festival . <p> This year is no less challenging , with ongoing wars in the Middle East and beyond , but that did n't prevent the festival from pulling together guests from across the globe . <p> " We 've really got all five continents together : Asia , Oceania , America , Europe and Africa , " she says . " Seeing all these international personalities in Marrakech is quite wonderful ! "
