<h> The Belgium-based Hind Rajab Foundation called for the arrest of three Nachal Brigade soldiers for alleged war crimes after they entered the Netherlands on Thursday . <p> DURING FIGHTING , a soldier communicates with other members of his unit. ( photo credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> Three soldiers became the latest targets of anti-Israel organizations seeking to doxx and level legal challenges against Israeli servicemen abroad . <p> The Belgium-based Hind Rajab Foundation ( HRF ) called for the arrest of three Nahal Brigade soldiers for alleged war crimes after they entered the Netherlands on Thursday . The March 30 Movement branch submitted a complaint the same day , charging that the Granite battalion soldiers had been involved in operations in which Gazan homes were burned and the Rafah crossing was damaged without any military necessity . <p> The disruption of the Rafah crossing constricted the flow of aid in an act of " weaponized famine , " the group said . <p> The three soldiers were named on social media , and their pictures were shared by the foundation . The doxxing came days after the group filed a complaint to the International Criminal Court against a soldier and called for his arrest while he was visiting the United Arab Emirates . <p> Many of the foundation 's accusations do not list specific actions by soldiers but place them within Gaza or the West Bank during operations . People take part in a protest in support of Palestinians in Gaza , as the conflict between Israel and Hamas continues , in Brussels , Belgium , November 11 , 2023. ( credit : REUTERS/YVES HERMAN ) <p> Other allegations and doxxing , such as those against an Israeli reservist officer who had to flee Cyprus in mid-November , are based on video and photographs posted by the soldiers on social media . Ynet reported that the officer coordinated his departure from the country with the Israeli Foreign Ministry after the HRF called on Cypriot officials to arrest him over two videos in which he allegedly burned and called to destroy Gazan civilian objects . <p> Following the November 21 ICC issuance of arrest warrants against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant , the foundation called on the international body to also issue warrants against 1,000 IDF soldiers listed in an October 8 dossier it filed to the ICC . <p> The HRF claimed that it had gathered 8,000 pieces of documentation detailing the destruction of infrastructure , occupation of civilian homes , looting , participating in a blockade of Gaza , and targeting civilians . The documentation reportedly included soldiers boasting " about their war crimes on social media , sharing photos and videos of their participation in the destruction and occupation of Palestinian homes and properties . " <p> Some of the soldiers had dual citizenship , including 12 French , 12 American , four Canadian , three British , and two Dutch citizens . <h> More than one group targeting Israeli soldiers <p> The HRF is not the only group doxxing IDF soldiers who have participated in the war . <p> The Israel Genocide Tracker X/Twitter account , which has over 160,000 followers , shares the names and pictures of soldiers who had allegedly been in Gaza . Many of those identified by the account are dual-nationals , such as an American-Israeli Golani Reconnaissance battalion sniper doxxed on Saturday . <p> " We firmly believe that every soldier who entered Gaza is complicit in the genocide , " the group said in a social media post last Monday , defending their operations from those arguing that the account 's posts interfered in ongoing legal and journalistic investigations . <p> " We will soon release comprehensive lists of soldiers ' names to support international legal actions . We are already collaborating with various human rights organizations that rely on our data to pursue justice . " <p> Telegram channels published a file allegedly containing the personal information of several thousand soldiers and security officials last Sunday . <p> The viability of the legal cases against these soldiers is unclear , according to legal experts , with the main objective being the intimidation of IDF soldiers . <h> Universal jurisdiction <p> NGO Monitor legal adviser Anne Herzberg said that it is difficult to know if individual cases are actionable without knowing their specifics , but there was concern that courts in countries with weak judicial systems and inadequate due process could be exploited , and warrants could be issued based on " flimsy evidence " and " no advance notice . " <p> " Anti-Israel NGOs have pushed universal jurisdiction cases against Israeli military and government officials for years as a complement to their lobbying for ICC proceedings , " said Herzberg . <p> " The shift by these groups to the targeting of thousands of lower-ranking dual-national Israelis has two purposes . First , these cases are about generating negative PR -- to internationally tarnish the IDF by delegitimizing and criminalizing IDF service . The second purpose is to deter dual nationals from serving in the IDF for fear they might be subject to criminal proceedings if they return to their countries of origin . <p> " This second purpose constitutes a military and national security threat and should be taken very seriously by both Israeli and Western officials . It should come as no surprise that several of these NGOs have links to the Muslim Brotherhood , Hamas , or other terror organizations . " <p> International Legal Forum CEO Arsen Ostrovsky said that these lawfare campaigns were " entirely without merit and no more than political stunts " but noted that " given the changing political climate and growing hostility against Israel in some parts of Europe , there is no guarantee that some countries will not entertain this charade in the future . " <p> " As a response to this growing threat , Israel should consider adopting a US-style American Service-Members ' Protection Act , which authorizes the use of all means necessary to secure the release of American soldiers and persons taken captive by , on behalf , or at the request of the International Criminal Court , in this case being equally applicable if IDF soldiers ( or former soldiers ) were detained on the instructions of the ICC and/or individual countries , " said Ostrovsky . <p> " The United States , which is currently putting a devastating sanctions framework together against the ICC over their issuing of arrest warrants against Prime Minister Netanyahu and Yoav Gallant , should sanction any country that not only seeks to apply the ICC warrants but takes individual actions to arrest IDF soldiers . <p> " And lastly , Israel should also make it a priority to sign bilateral immunity agreements with other countries , acknowledging the independence of Israel 's judicial system and undertaking not to arrest any IDF soldiers , whether current or former , thereby allowing Israelis the ability to travel freely , without fear of arrest . "
