<h> The November 9 incident , which gained international attention after the victim spoke to the Irish Times on Saturday , is being investigated by the Gardai . <p> Gardai ( Police ) block the road beside the Israeli embassy as demonstrators rally during a " Stand with Palestine " march in solidarity with Gaza , in Dublin , Ireland , October 14 , 2023. ( photo credit : CLODAGH KILCOYNE/REUTERS ) <p> An American student was beaten in a Dublin nightclub at the beginning of the month , targeted because he was Jewish , according to Irish Chief Rabbi Yoni Wieder and Jewish Representative Council of Ireland chair Maurice Cohen . <p> The November 9 incident , which gained international attention after the victim spoke to The Irish Times on Saturday , is being investigated by the Gardai , the national police . <p> Cohen said in a November 12 statement that the victim had been asked if he was Jewish before he was assaulted . The student told the Times that he had been wearing a Star of David necklace at the time of the encounter . Wieder told The Jerusalem Post that three men assaulted the Jewish student when he was alone in the club 's bathroom . <p> The student suffered a concussion from the assault , according to the Times , and when the Gardai were speaking to witnesses , a person who was not a party to the attack declared that " the Jews in Amsterdam -- they got what they deserved . " On November 7 , rioters violently targeted Israelis and Dutch Jews after a soccer match , leading to several injuries . <p> Cohen called on the Irish government and police to bring the perpetrators to justice " and to address the disturbing trend of antisemitism that endangers our community and violates Ireland 's core values . " <p> The Gardai said they were investigating the " hate-related motivation " and assigned a diversity liaison officer to the victim . People hold placards and flags during a demonstration in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , ahead of the October 7 attack anniversary , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Dublin , Ireland October 5 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/CLODAGH KILCOYNE ) <h> Rising antisemitism in Ireland <p> Wieder said that while the " brutal , cowardly assault " was " appalling and deeply disturbing " it was not surprising due to increasingly charged rhetoric in the country . <p> " For months we have been warning that the inflammatory -- and on occasion overtly antisemitic -- rhetoric in Ireland has made many members of the Jewish community here feel unsafe and that it could lead to violence , " said Wieder . " It is hard to understate the extent to which Israel features in Irish public discourse . For over a year , politicians and the mainstream media have demonized Israel on a near-daily basis . <p> " Some politicians like to stress that it is not antisemitic to be critical of Israel or to challenge the actions of the IDF , and this is certainly true . But the anti-Israel narrative in Ireland has become so hateful , and so full of disinformation and distortion , that it creates a context in which antisemitism has surged . " <p> Cohen warned that the attack marked a " dangerous turning point " after a period of intense one-sided public discourse and noted that the incident occurred on the anniversary of Kristallnacht -- a pogrom in Nazi Germany in which Jews were murdered and their synagogues and shops damaged and destroyed . <p> " It is profoundly distressing to see such an abhorrent act happen here in Ireland , a country that has long championed tolerance , inclusion , and respect , " said Cohen . <p> " Ireland and Europe must not fail their citizens . History taught us that words matter , and silence or inaction in the face of hatred only emboldens those who spread it . We call upon all in Ireland to stand in solidarity with the Jewish community , to reject hatred in all its forms , and to reaffirm Ireland 's commitment to safeguarding the lives and rights of all its people . "
