<p> Romania 's ruling Social Democrats ( PSD ) were leading in Sunday 's parliamentary elections , but the far right secured big gains , exit polling found , deepening uncertainty in a country rocked by political chaos . <p> Shortly after the end of voting at 9:00 pm ( 1900 GMT ) , the PSD was credited with 26 percent of the vote , ahead of the other parties , according to the poll published by local media . <p> However , all the far-right parties combined stood at about 30 percent . <p> If confirmed by official results expected later in the evening , it would indicate a fragmented parliament as well as difficult negotiations to form a government . <p> The parliamentary vote comes at a time of political turmoil sparked when a top court ordered a recount of the first round of Romania 's November 24 presidential election . <p> Last week 's first-round presidential ballot was won by Calin Georgescu , a little-known far-right admirer of Russian President Vladimir Putin . A run-off is slated for December 8 . <p> The far right 's surprise success has raised fears in the West that it could potentially herald a shift in the foreign policy of the NATO country and EU member , which borders Ukraine . <p> " It is an important signal that Romanians have sent to the political class , " said Social Democrat Prime Minister Marcel Ciolacu after the exit poll was published , adding that the country should continue on its European path , while " protecting our identity , national values and faith " . <p> Earlier on Sunday , several voters like Dorina Burcea voiced concern that Romania might turn away from its pro-European path . <p> " As someone who lived a little bit under communism and still remembers it -- and at the same time could enjoy all this openness of the European Union , to be able to go to other countries -- I ca n't imagine how we could have another option than the EU and NATO , " the 41-year-old told AFP . <p> Voter turnout stood at 52 percent after polls closed , a record high in 20 years . <p> " Today the Romanian people voted for the pro-sovereignty forces , " said far-right AUR leader George Simion , who had won nearly 14 percent of the presidential vote . <p> " It is the beginning of a new era in which the Romanian people reclaim the right to decide their destiny , " he added . <p> The extreme-right SOS Romania party , led by firebrand Diana Sosoaca , and the recently founded Party of Young People ( POT ) , were each credited with more than five percent of the vote and are expected to enter parliament . <p> Since the fall of Communism in 1989 , the country of 19 million people has never seen such a breakthrough by the far right . But anger over soaring inflation and fears of being dragged into Russia 's war in neighbouring Ukraine have mounted . <p> For George Sorin , a 45-year-old economist in Bucharest , the current parliament had mostly served the interests of Ukraine by sending aid and had prioritised the European Union over " national interests " . <p> In the opposing pro-EU camp , the centrist USR party , led by Elena Lasconi -- who placed second in the presidential ballot -- secured 15 percent of the vote , just like the liberals . <p> - Russian interference - <p> The parliamentary election took place at a delicate time , with the top court 's order to recount the ballots of the first round of the presidential election causing widespread confusion . <p> After casting his vote in the city of Focsani , AUR leader Simion alleged that some people were " trying to repeat the ( presidential ) election to get the outcome they desire " . <p> " Last Sunday , the Romanian people spoke , " he said , insisting the result of the presidential vote should be respected . <p> " No decision made during this crucial period should limit the right of Romanians to vote freely nor further put at risk the credibility of the election process , " said the US Embassy in Romania . <p> According to Septimius Parvu of the Expert Forum think tank , the recount order by Romania 's Constitutional Court had " many negative effects " , including undermining confidence in Romanian institutions . <p> " We 've already recounted votes in Romania in the past , but not millions of votes , with parliamentary elections in the middle of it all , " Parvu said . <p> bur-kym/js/jhb <h> Latest stories <p> Hundreds of protesters gathered in Bucharest after a far-right populist unexpectedly won the first round of a presidential race , plunging Romania into turmoil just days before the country holds parliamentary elections . Sunday 's ballot will determine a new government and prime minister to lead the European Union and NATO member country . Calin Georgescu is due to face reformist Elena Lasconi of the Save Romania Union party in a Dec. 8 runoff . <p> Iceland 's opposition Social Democrats overtook the governing Independence Party of Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson after a snap election prompted by the collapse of his fraught coalition government , public broadcaster RUV reported Sunday.Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson 's Independence Party trailed the Social Democrats with 19.4 percent , down from the 24.4 percent it won in 2021 , marking the worst result the party had ever recorded . <p> Romanians voted on Sunday in a parliamentary election sandwiched between two rounds of the presidential race , the first of which has plunged the European Union and NATO member into unprecedented turmoil following allegations of electoral violations and Russian interference . Sunday 's vote will elect a new government and prime minister and determine the formation of the 466-seat legislature . When polls closed locally at 9 p.m. , about 9.4 million people -- about 52.3% of eligible voters -- had cast ballots , according to the Central Election Bureau . <p> STORY : U.S. President-elect Donald Trump said on Saturday ( November 30 ) he wants former National Security official Kash Patel to lead the FBI , signaling plans to carry out his threat to eject the bureau 's current director , Christopher Wray.Forty-four-year-old Patel is a Trump loyalist who advised both the director of national intelligence and secretary of defense during the Republican 's first term in the White House.He has previously called for stripping the FBI of its intelligence-gathering role and purging its ranks of any employee who refuses to support Trump 's agenda.In a September interview on a conservative podcast , Patel said : " The biggest problem the FBI has had , has come out of its intel shops . I 'd break that component out of it . I 'd shut down the FBI Hoover building on day one and reopen it the next day as a museum of the deep state . " Current director Wray 's term does not expire until 2027 . FBI directors are appointed to 10-year terms by law as a means of insulating the bureau from politics.Trump himself appointed Wray to the role during his first term . But he has since come under fire from Trump and his supporters , who have accused the FBI and other federal agencies of " weaponizing " law enforcement to silence critics on the right and target political enemies.It was under Wray that the FBI carried out a court-approved search at Trump 's Mar-a-Lago estate to look for classified documents . Wray has also faced criticism for his role overseeing a directive by Attorney General Merrick Garland , aimed at working to protect local school boards from violent threats and harassment.An FBI spokesperson did not directly comment on Patel 's nomination on Saturday , saying : " Every day , the men and women of the FBI continue to work to protect Americans from a growing array of threats . Director Wray 's focus remains on the men and women of the FBI , the people we do the work with , and the people we do the work for . " The appointment will need Senate approval . There will likely be pushback against Patel 's nomination by Senate Democrats , and possibly even some Republicans . <p> The global market spotlight on Monday looks set to zoom in on the dollar , especially its performance against emerging market currencies , after U.S. President-elect Donald Trump 's weekend warning against the so-called ' BRICS ' nations . In a social media post on Saturday , Trump demanded that the ' BRICS ' countries - Brazil , Russia , India , China and South Africa - commit to not creating a new currency or supporting another currency that would replace the U.S. dollar , or face 100% tariffs . This comes after Trump had already injected additional volatility into world currency markets last week by proposing big tariffs against China , Mexico , and Canada - countries the US has some of its largest trade deficits with . <p> STORY : : : Armed men topple a statue of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad 's brother as rebels sweep Aleppo : : Ibrahim Bozan : : November 30 , 2024 : : Aleppo , SyriaBashar Al-Assad vowed to defeat the insurgents by force , the official Syrian news agency reported on Sunday . The Syrian army said dozens of its soldiers had been killed in the attack on Aleppo.Reuters was able to confirm the location by the statue of Bassel al-Assad , roundabout design , buildings and road layout seen in the video , which matched file and satellite imagery of the area . The date was verified by corroborating footage of the same scene . Reuters could not independently verify the affiliation of people seen in the video.Bassel al-Assad was seen as the likely presidential successor to their father , Hafez al-Assad , but he died in a car crash in 1994 . In 2000 , Bashar al-Assad became the President of Syria after his father 's death . <p> A top Bangladeshi politician accused of masterminding a deadly 2004 grenade attack against ex-premier Sheikh Hasina had his conviction quashed Sunday , another step in his expected return from London exile.With his mother in ailing health , Tarique is widely expected to eventually return to Bangladesh after more than 15 years living in exile in London and lead the BNP in her stead . <p> Greenpeace activists boarded a tanker off South Korea on Saturday in an action intended to draw attention to calls for a treaty to curb plastic pollution , the environmental group said.Attempts to reach an agreement on curbing plastic pollution have stalled over several key sticking points , including whether to cut new plastic production . <p> Deeply divided negotiators failed on Sunday to reach a landmark global treaty to curb plastic pollution , missing a self-imposed deadline , and agreed to extend their talks . " If you address plastic pollution , there should be no problem with producing plastics , because the problem is the pollution , not the plastics themselves , " he said . <p> The White House is working on a ceasefire and hostage release deal in Gaza but is " not there yet , " the US National Security Advisor told NBC on Sunday , with fighting in the conflict raging on as regional leaders meet to discuss the crisis.Speaking in Jerusalem on Sunday , Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said there were " indications " progress could be made on a deal securing the release of hostages by Hamas in Gaza . <p> Donald Trump said Saturday that a surprise meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in Florida was " very productive , " days after the incoming US leader rattled Ottawa with a vow to impose tariffs on Canadian imports.Afterward , Trump posted on his Truth Social website that he had had " a very productive meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau . " <p> Georgia 's Prime Minister on Sunday ruled out new parliamentary elections amid a post-election crisis that has seen his legitimacy questioned both at home and internationally.The Black Sea nation has been rocked by turmoil since the governing Georgian Dream party claimed victory in an October 26 parliamentary election that the pro-European opposition said was fraudulent.The opposition is boycotting the new parliament , while pro-EU President Salome Zurabishvili has sought to annul the election result through the country 's constitutional court , declaring the new legislature and government " illegitimate " . Thousands have taken to the streets to protest alleged electoral fraud as well as the government 's decision on Thursday to shelve talks on joining the European Union until 2028 . When asked&amp;nbsp ; whether Georgian Dream would agree to hold a new ballot , Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze told journalists : " Of course not . " " The formation of the new government based on the October 26 parliamentary elections has been completed , " he said.Critics accuse Georgian Dream , in power for more than a decade , of having steered the country away from the EU in recent years and of moving closer to Russia , an accusation it denies.Earlier this week , the party nominated far-right former football international Mikheil Kavelashvili for the largely ceremonial post of president.Under constitutional changes pushed through by Georgian Dream in 2017 , the president will for the first time be chosen by an electoral college instead of a popular vote.But Zurabishvili told AFP in an exclusive interview on Saturday that she would not step down until last month 's contested parliamentary elections are re-run. - ' Only legitimate institution ' -Brussels has abstained from recognising the outcome of the October elections and demanded an investigation into " serious electoral irregularities " . The European Parliament adopted a resolution rejecting Georgian Dream 's victory , calling for a re-run and for sanctions to be imposed on top Georgian officials , including Kobakhidze.Zurabishvili said Saturday that she had set up a " national council " of opposition parties and civil society representatives , which would ensure " stability in this country " . Calling herself " the only legitimate institution in the country " , Zurabishvili said that " as long as there are no new elections ... my mandate continues " . " Nobody outside Georgia , democratic partners , nobody has recognised ( October 's ) the elections , " she added . " I will be the representative of this legitimate , stable transition , " she said.Constitutional law experts , including one author of Georgia 's constitution , Vakhtang Khmaladze , told AFP that any decisions made by the new parliament -- including the nomination of Kobakhidze as prime minister and the coming presidential election -- would be invalid.That is because parliament had approved its own credentials in violation of a legal requirement to await a court ruling on Zurabishvili 's bid to annul the election results , they said.Kobakhidze 's announcement on Thursday that Georgia would not seek accession talks with the European Union until 2028 sparked a fresh wave of nationwide anti-government protests.Thousands of people gathered in Georgia 's capital Tbilisi on Saturday for a third night of protests that saw dozens arrested.Chaotic scenes unfolded for hours as police chased defiant protesters through the streets of central Tbilisi , beating them and making arrests.Masked officers in riot gear fired rubber bullets , tear gas and water cannons as they moved in to disperse protesters hurling fireworks , while flames were seen coming from a window of the parliament building.Protests were also held in numerous other cities across Georgia. - International condemnation -Hundreds of public servants , including from the ministries of foreign affairs , defence and education , as well as a number of judges , issued joint statements protesting Kobakhidze 's decision.More than 200 Georgian diplomats criticised the move as contradicting the constitution and leading the country " into international isolation " . A number of Georgia 's ambassadors resigned , while around 100 schools and universities suspended academic activities in protest.After the October vote , a group of Georgia 's leading election monitors said they had evidence of a complex scheme of large-scale electoral fraud.The crackdown on protests has provoked international condemnation.The EU 's new foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas on Sunday warned Georgian authorities over violence against demonstrators . &amp;nbsp ; US State Department spokesman Matthew Miller said : " We condemn excessive force used against Georgians exercising their freedom to protest and have suspended our Strategic Partnership with Georgia . " France , Britain , Ukraine , Poland , Sweden and Lithuania were among other countries to voice concern.im/cad/js <p> The U.S. Navy is transforming a costly flub into a potent weapon with the first shipborne hypersonic weapon , which is being retrofitted aboard the first of its three stealthy destroyers . The USS Zumwalt is at a Mississippi shipyard where workers have installed missile tubes that replace twin turrets from a gun system that was never activated because it was too expensive . Once the system is complete , the Zumwalt will provide a platform for conducting fast , precision strikes from greater distances , adding to the usefulness of the warship . <p> Romanians were voting in a parliamentary election on Sunday , in which the far right is expected to gain from uncertainty over whether the shock result in a presidential election will stand . Sunday 's vote is the second of three consecutive ballots for both a new parliament and a new president , after the first round of the presidential election on Nov. 24 saw an independent far-right candidate emerge from relative obscurity to become the front-runner . His unexpected win ushered in support for ultranationalist , hard-right parties , some with overt pro-Russian sympathies , which could upend Romania 's pro-Western orientation and undermine backing for Ukraine , political analysts said .
