<p> DEMONSTRATORS CALL for the release of the hostages still held captive in Gaza , at Hostages Square in Tel Aviv , on Saturday night . The hostages taken by Hamas during its rampage have endured ordeals that defy any civilized description , the writer affirms. ( photo credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <p> The psychological harm of captivity was as great or greater than the intense physical harm suffered by the hostages , a report on the health impacts of captivity on the freed hostages found . <p> The report , compiled by the Hostage Family Forum 's Medical Team , highlighted the psychological impacts of captivity , saying that post-traumatic stress disorder is common among released hostages . <p> Some are also showing symptoms of complex post-traumatic stress disorder following repeated exposure to violence and torture . This exposure also shattered the worldview of many of the hostages , leading them to lose faith , the report added . <p> These symptoms are more significant among those who experienced violence or were separated from their families , the report added.A woman holds a spray can next to a child as hostages are released by Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 26 , 2023 ( credit : REUTERS/ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA ) <h> Survivors guilt and heavy anxiety <p> The children who were held hostage have an especially hard time processing their feelings , and some show regression and anxiety . <p> Hyper-alertness among the released hostages is made worse by the ongoing war in Israel , the report said , explaining that this is caused by sirens and other signs of danger . <p> Many released hostages and their families are also struggling with survivor guilt and ongoing trauma , the report added . This is especially true when their family members , friends , or those who were taken hostage with them remain in captivity , the report stated . <p> This emotional toll complicates the healing process of the released hostages , with many struggling to reconcile their freedom with the suffering of the remaining hostages , the report added . <p> The report also noted that many released hostages have joined efforts to advocate and raise awareness for the remaining hostages , a process that takes a physical and emotional toll and leaves little room for the hostages to care for themselves and go through rehabilitation . <p> The transition out of captivity has also posed freed hostages with challenges , the report noted , saying that many of the freed hostages were exposed to the devastation of Hamas ' October 7 attack on Israel with their return . <p> Many of the released hostages also lost their anonymity and felt that their identity became tied to their experience as hostages . <p> " The public attention surrounding their release , although supportive , at times intensified their sense of alienation and made it difficult for them to return to normalcy , " the report said . <p> Another factor that impacted the mental health of the released hostages was the impact on their family dynamics , the report noted . <p> Many families were not prepared for the reality of receiving their loved ones back from captivity due to short notice of their return . A lack of guidance and tools during this time left the families to cope with the unexpected responses of the returning hostages . <p> The report also outlined the physical implications of captivity on the hostages , saying that it caused malnutrition and weight loss , digestive issues and problems relating to the poor hygiene conditions of captivity , worsening chronic illness , and physical injury . <p> The report also touched on the injuries sustained by the hostages during their kidnapping , such as fractures that were not treated and nerve damage . These injuries have left long-term damage and disability . <p> Not only did hostages lose weight , but the poor nutrition of the food they were given , which was mainly rice and bread , increased medical risk and required medical intervention to prevent refeeding syndrome . <p> Poor hygiene conditions and exposure to contaminated water caused digestive tract infections and chronic diarrhea , the report said , adding that the hostages also suffered from skin conditions , lice , and more . <p> Many of the released hostages are still contending with difficulties stabilizing their condition after chronic illnesses went untreated in captivity , the report said . Some have suffered irreversible damage . <p> The medical impacts of captivity have far-reaching implications for the hostages ' ability to work and to get an education . <p> The report touched on the fight to free the remaining hostages , saying that in order for the healing process for the hostage families and for Israeli society to begin , all the hostages must be brought back . <p> Among the recommendations made by the medical team was the call to form a national plan for rehabilitation and to increase rehabilitative services for the freed hostages and their families , including psychological , physical , and social support . <p> " The struggle for the release of the hostages conveys a vital message to the families of the hostages and those who have been freed , providing them with support and helping them cope with their immense suffering , " the report said . <p> " The Israeli public must continue and even strengthen these efforts through demonstrations and demands for the hostages ' immediate release . It is essential to ensure that their situation remains at the top of the national agenda and central to the public and political discourse . " <p> The report also highlighted that the international community and international aid organizations must work to free the hostages . <p> " Bringing all the hostages home is not only a moral obligation but also a necessary condition for the collective healing of the hostages ' families , the released hostages , and israeli society as a whole , " the report stressed . <p> The report was based on a number of studies and reports on the returned Israeli hostages , as well as medical assessments and interviews conducted by the hostage family forum with the released hostages and their families .
