<h> The president-elect called his pick an " unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East . " <p> President-elect Donald Trump has opted to keep it in the family again with some of his latest administrative picks-- this time , with the senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Trump has appointed Lebanon billionaire Massad Boulos to take on the role . His son , Michael , is married to Tiffany Trump , the president 's youngest daughter . <p> " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social account . " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . " <p> He also called Boulos an " unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East . " <p> Trump 's youngest daughter married Boulos ' son , Michael , in 2022 , with the president-elect even walking her down the aisle . The couple is expecting their first child together . <p> Trump has also named Charles Kushner as the U.S. ambassador to France . Charles Kushner is the father of Jared Kushner , Trump 's son-in-law , who is married to Ivanka Trump . Trump had pardoned Charles Kushner in 2020 after he was convicted on federal charges . <p> MILWAUKEE , WISCONSIN - JULY 16 : Tiffany Trump , daughter of former U.S. President Donald Trump , walks with her husband Michael Boulos ( L ) on the second day of the Republican National Convention at the Fiserv Forum on July 16 , 2024 in Milwaukee , Wisconsin . Delegates , politicians , and the Republican faithful are in Milwaukee for the annual convention , concluding with former President Donald Trump accepting his party 's presidential nomination . The RNC takes place from July 15-18 . ( Photo by Andrew Harnik/Getty Images ) Andrew Harnik/Getty Images <p> In the role as senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , Boulos may play a big part in the war Gaza , with the United States offering support to Israel under Biden 's administration .
