<h> The visit followed the release of a video showing Alexander held captive in Gaza , in which he spoke in a mixture of Hebrew and English . <p> President Isaac Herzog and First Lady Michal met with Yael Alexander , the mother of Israeli-American hostage Edan Alexander , the president 's spokesperson announced on Sunday . <p> The visit came after the release of a video showing Alexander held captive in Gaza , in which he spoke in a mixture of Hebrew and English . The video , titled " Soon ... Time is running out , " was published on Saturday on the Telegram channel of Hamas ' military wing , the Izzadin al-Qassam Brigades . <p> Herzog spoke with the Alexander family about Edan , who is held alongside 100 other hostages , and said it is time to finalize a deal and bring the hostages home now that an agreement has been reached with Lebanon . <p> " We are negotiating with a bitter and cruel enemy whose sole purpose in releasing this video was to try to break our spirit , " he said . " On the contrary -- I believe this video has strengthened us . My call to the entire world , to Israel 's leadership , and to all mediators is this : the time is now . We want Edan home . We want everyone home urgently . We cry out for this every single day -- now is the time to act . " <p> " This video is like a message from hell -- harsh and heartbreaking . When I saw it , I wept , but I also felt a glimmer of hope , " Herzog added . " There are negotiations taking place behind the scenes , and it can be done . Now is the opportunity to bring about a meaningful change that will lead to a deal to free the hostages . " President Herzog meets with mother of hotage Edan Alexander . ( credit : Koby Gideon ( GPO ) ) <h> ' You neglected us ' <p> In the video , Alexander introduces himself and states he has been a prisoner of Hamas for more than 420 days . <p> The video then switches to footage of Alexander covering his face with his hands and crying . Speaking in Hebrew , he gave a message to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> " I heard you speaking to the people of Israel on the news , and I am very disappointed , " he said . " I heard that you will give $5 million to whoever brings us back alive . The prime minister is supposed to protect his citizens and soldiers , and you neglected us . " <p> Alexander said the guards gave the hostages instructions in case the IDF reached them . <p> " The fear is at its peak , and we are dying a thousand times every day that passes , and no one feels for us , " he added . " The people of Israel : Do not neglect us . We want to return home with a full mind . Fear and isolation are killing us . Please do not forget us . It is unreasonable that we pay the price for a mistake made by the government . Please , people of Israel , go out to demonstrate every day and pressure the government . It is time to put an end to this nightmare . " <p> Speaking in English to US President-elect Donald Trump , Alexander said , " Please use your influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom . Every day here feels like an eternity , and the pain from inside grows from day to day . Please do not make the mistake Biden has been doing . The weapons he has sent are now killing us , and the unlawful sieges are now starving us . I do not want to end up dead like my fellow US citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin . " <p> The video concluded with Alexander telling his parents and grandparents to be strong and that it is only " a matter of time until this nightmare ends . " <h> Yael Alexander responds <p> " Edan -- his voice and the video replaying endlessly . You can see in the video that Edan is going through hell , " she said . " His eyes are crying out , full of sorrow , but it gave me so much strength -- Edan strengthened us with his call to us . " <p> " We released this video so that everyone can see -- Edan is alive , and many other hostages are alive , " she added . " It 's time to act and free them . "
