<h> Share on Social Media <p> President-elect Donald Trump has a message for Hamas as his return to the White House approaches . <p> " Everybody is talking about the hostages who are being held so violently , inhumanely , and against the will of the entire World , in the Middle East -- But it 's all talk , and no action ! " he wrote on Truth Social on Monday . " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity . " <p> " Those responsible will be hit harder than anybody has been hit in the long and storied History of the United States of America . RELEASE THE HOSTAGES NOW ! " Trump concluded . <p> Trump 's remarks came after U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said that Hamas is starting to feel pressure and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has agreed that " the time is right " for a cease-fire agreement that returns the remaining captives from Gaza after President Joe Biden 's administration spoke to the family of American hostage Edan Alexander . <p> " I do think that Hamas is feeling the pressure . They 're feeling the pressure because one of their main partners in crime here , Hezbollah , has now cut a cease-fire deal , " Sullivan explained on Sunday 's " Face the Nation . " <p> " They 're feeling the pressure , of course , because their top leader , Sinwar , has been killed . So , they may be looking anew at the possibility of getting a cease-fire and hostage deal , " he added . A 13-part ceasefire between Hezbollah and Israel was announced last week . <p> Sullivan further added that the Biden administration is " working actively with all of the key players in the region , including Israel and Turkey and Qatar and Egypt , " to bring to fruition a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas -- one that will hopefully return the remaining hostages home and also end the war in the region . <p> Trump 's Monday warning also came a day after naming businessman and daughter Tiffany Trump 's father-in-law Massad Boulos as his pick for senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Also on Sunday , the president-elect likened the Jan. 6 rioters to " hostages " in response to Biden pardoning his son Hunter Biden . <p> " Does the Pardon given by Joe to Hunter include the J-6 Hostages , who have now been imprisoned for years ? Such an abuse and miscarriage of Justice ! " Trump wrote in a Truth Social post on Sunday . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> JD Knapp is a news editor at TheWrap , with a personal preference for horror movies , bubblegum pop , reality TV , sitcoms , and animation . After growing up in Connecticut and graduating from Emerson College in Boston with a degree in Broadcast Journalism , he has gone on to work for national outlets such as People , E ! News , The ...
