<h> ShareAll sharing options for:Who Is Steve McQueen Trying to Be ? <p> At a recent preview screening in Toronto of Steve McQueen 's new movie , Blitz -- a historical drama about a mother and son ( played by Saoirse Ronan and Elliott Heffernan , respectively ) who become separated during the German shelling of London in 1940 -- an audience member asked the filmmaker why he 'd opted to provide a film so steeped in bleakness with a ( relatively ) happy ending . After a quizzical pause , McQueen -- who tends to be hyper-ruminative when it comes to explaining his work -- replied by saying that he did n't think Blitz had a happy ending at all . <p> " It 's a wish , " said McQueen of his film 's finale , a poetic phrase that speaks to the tone of plangent and universal yearning threaded through Blitz'svarious CGI-assisted action set pieces . It 's a phrase that also speaks , perhaps unconsciously , to the anxieties of an avant-garde artist perennially edging his way toward wider acceptance and wrestling with what it means to get there . For filmmakers of McQueen 's stature , it 's sometimes important to be careful what they wish for -- lest they get it . <p> Citing a desire to " obliterate the frame , " McQueen emerged from the London art scene -- and New York 's Tisch School -- in the early 1990s with a series of striking short films that split the difference between tactility and abstraction . Bear depicts a wrestling match between two naked , well-muscled men , one of whom is played by the director himself ; their tussle suggests an allegorical link between alpha-male aggression and tender homoeroticism , as well as a wary dance between artist and muse . McQueen continued the idea of the filmmaker as a sort of symbolic stuntman in 1997 's Deadpan , which restaged a famously death-defying sight gag from Buster Keaton 's silent-era masterpiece Steamboat Bill , Jr . Standing stock-still and sullen in homage to the Great Stone Face , McQueen occupies the center of the frame while the facade of a house comes crashing down around him . It 's a slapstick money shot that deconstructs multiple layers of meaning about film history and directorial craftsmanship ; by nodding to Keaton -- a pioneering genius of the medium who occasionally appeared in blackface -- McQueen slyly alluded to questions about race and authorship while ( literally and figuratively ) putting himself in harm 's way . <p> In 1999 , McQueen won Britain 's prestigious Turner Prize , a citation reserved for innovative and vanguard artists ; a decade later , he made his feature-film debut with Hunger , starring Michael Fassbender as Bobby Sands , the IRA freedom fighte who starved himself to death in the HM Prison Maze in Northern Ireland in 1981 . Shot in a glancing , lyrical style that eschews narrative exposition in favor of visceral synecdoches -- bloodied hands being washed in a sink , insects scrambling across a windowsill , excrement being smeared concentrically on cellblock walls -- Hunger is a tone poem about the physical and psychic wreckage of incarceration , with Fassbender contributing a gestural tour de force . Everything you need to know about his character 's commitment to his cause is conveyed through body language . The more that Bobby Sands 's torso recedes and collapses in front of McQueen 's static , unblinking camera , the more potent he becomes ; if anything , the mid-film dialogue between Bobby and a visiting priest , shot ostentatiously and effectively in a 17-minute take , is redundant within the film 's impressionistic conception . <p> The formal brilliance of Hunger is undeniable , but a case can be made that McQueen was aestheticizing his material to an extreme -- and maybe to a fault . That goes double for his follow-up , Shame , which once again used Fassbender as an avatar of mortification , this time as a fictional character in thrall to a very different cause . Our antihero , Brandon , is a Manhattan master-of-the-universe type , ? la Patrick Bateman , whose all-American psychosis manifests as compulsive satyriasis ; he 's addicted to sex and takes no pleasure as he hunts down anonymous partners and ejaculates all over the sleek signifiers of conspicuous consumption strewn across his bachelor pad . Where Hunger'sshow-off technique was carefully -- and effectively -- placed in historical context , Shame attempts to diagnose millennial malaise : The masochism is laid on so thick that it could almost be a parody of a certain kind of sterile art cinema . The film feels like the work of a virtuoso trying to live up to his own pedigree ; between the methodically achieved sterility of the compositions and the brutalism of the production design , it 's clear that Brandon is n't the only guy trying to jerk himself off . <p> For many critics -- and a majority of the Academy , who voted it as 2014 's Best Picture -- 12 Years a Slave represented a significant improvement , yet it 's also a fitting complement to Hunger , with its focus on an American narrative of imprisonment and resistance . I 've gone on the record elsewhere about my reservations for a film whose most powerful moments exemplify its maker 's peculiar and paradoxical form of showmanship , with its mix of atrocity and austerity ; McQueen 's exaggerated stylization of Michael Fassbender 's petty tyrant plantation owner , Edwin Epps , who takes center stage after purchasing Chiwetel Ejiofor 's Solomon Northup , is telling . Here , Fassbender 's acting becomes a liability , especially in contrast to Ejiofor 's thoughtful understatement : He makes Epps into a cringeworthy caricature whose presence says less about long-standing systems of violence and oppression than McQueen 's berserk sense of dramaturgy . <p> I 've also already written about Widows , the twisty , Gillian Flynn -- written heist thriller that rerouted McQueen 's trajectory definitively toward multiplex entertainment . At its best , the film is primo prestige pulp adorned with a series of gorgeous visual flourishes , like a wonderfully choreographed shot that traces the economic topography and racial hierarchy of an entire Chicago neighborhood while staying glued to the windshield of a moving car . Rather than turning social consciousness or subversion into escapism , McQueen tries -- with mixed but real success -- to integrate them on a molecular level . Widows is the rare contemporary caper movie where it feels like something is at stake beyond the vanities of its A-list cast members . <p> McQueen 's best directorial work to date is probably the 2020 BBC anthology Small Axe , which includes five discrete features centered on West Indian immigrants in late-20th-century London . The standout , Mangrove , about the 1971 trial of the so-called Mangrove Nine , who bravely protested a series of police raids on a well-loved Caribbean restaurant in Notting Hill , plays like a spiritual sequel to Hunger , except that it explicitly zooms out to analyze larger currents of prejudice . The equally superlative Lovers Rock , meanwhile , rebuts Shame'sequation of guilt and pleasure by immersing the viewer in a raucous , pay-at-the-door house party whose participants are boosted by pheromones , booze , and an intoxicating notion of community . McQueen 's gift for claustrophobia is reworked to convey an exquisite intimacy ; the movie is beautifully constructed , directed , and edited yet comes off as an effortless , giddy , galvanizing rush of good vibes . <p> If the overwhelming sense one gets from Lovers Rock is of an artist in his sweet spot , Blitz feels like he 's pushing against his limits . In broad outline , the film is a story of separation that transposes a series of picaresque , Dickensian tropes onto a World War II narrative . In bleeding together the 19th and 20th centuries , McQueen is clearly trying to say something about the representation of British history and also about his responsibilities as a filmmaker in the present tense . In an interview with The Globe and Mail , the director affirmed that the film 's nightmarish images of a civilian population under fire are not supposed to be self-contained ; while he did n't cite Gaza himself , he deferred graciously to his interlocutor 's opinion on the matter . " The film is about the normal , ordinary people who are on the ground , similar to what we 're seeing right now , " said McQueen . " The leaders are the ones who made the decisions . Us normal people are the ones who have to deal with the consequences of that . " <p> " The pain of parting is nothing compared to the joy of meeting again , " wrote Dickens in Nicholas Nickleby.Blitz'splotline is energized by that same crystalline yearning . The all-consuming guilt felt by munitions worker Rita ( Ronan ) after sending 9-year-old Georgie ( Heffernan ) to the countryside -- along with half a million other children as part of a citywide child evacuation plan -- is matched by the boy 's white-hot determination to make his way back to her . Impulsively , Georgie flees his new guardians and hops on a train back to the city ; his journey gives McQueen a chance to revise the era 's social narratives and iconography -- and the way most movies about the Blitz barely pay even stiff upper lip service to the role of non-white characters . Wandering through London on the lam from the authorities , Georgie is doubly vulnerable as a multiracial child . In McQueen 's skeptical vision , the process of keeping calm and carrying on means propping up a status quo stratified by racism . <p> Telling a familiar story from an unfamiliar perspective is a viable idea , and there are moments in Blitz when McQueen uses a child 's point of view smartly , like a nighttime interlude in the Islington Empire arcade in which Georgie encounters dioramas of Black people being subjugated and exploited , avatars that feed into his sense of alienation . Ever the dialectician , McQueen counters these retrograde images with the arrival of a saintly Nigerian air raid warden who takes on a protective role for Georgie and , ideally , illuminates Georgie 's understanding of his own Blackness . As played by the musician Benjamin Clementine , Ife -- whose name , we are told , is Nigerian for " love " -- is a welcome presence ; he 's based on a real-life figure , which makes his mechanical treatment at the hands of the filmmakers that much more frustrating . Despite Clementine 's lovely performance , the character comes off as a simple prop to occupy the movie 's time and to score a rhetorical point . <p> There 's a way to successfully dramatize the ambient anxieties and survival instincts of wartime and even turn them into rollicking entertainment , as in Paul Verhoeven 's brilliant Black Book . Unfortunately , the movie that Blitz recalls most is Sam Mendes 's 1917 , which is not a compliment . McQueen is a considerably better filmmaker than Sam Mendes , but their weaknesses are strangely simpatico , including a need to amp the intensity of every episode in a way that kills the actual tone . Blitz 's screenplay has been scrupulously researched so that nearly everything we see has a factual basis , including the scenes featuring the short-statured socialist firebrand Mickey " The Midget " Davies ( finely played Leigh Gill ) and a grotesque showstopper in which a club full of dead aristocrats -- killed instantly from shock in a bomb blast -- are stripped of their belongings and puppeteered postmortem by a group of pickpockets straight out of Oliver Twist ( or Les Miz ) . Unfortunately , McQueen 's approach transforms lively , stranger-than-fiction anecdotes into a string of clich ? s . The director 's epic 2023 documentary Occupied City , which juxtaposes modern-day footage of Amsterdam with a voice-over describing what happened in those same spaces during Nazi occupation , does considerably more to bring the audience inside the horror of life during wartime . McQueen is better off using spectacle as a structuring absence instead of trying to outdo Spielberg at his own game . <p> To return to the question of Blitz'sending : McQueen prefigures his coda with black-and-white images of a field of daisies sourced from the work of the great surrealist artist Man Ray , specifically his 1926 experimental short Emak Bakia . Their inclusion complicates the conventionality of the film 's language , but only to a point ; it 's just as easy to see McQueen 's nod to Man Ray as a kind of artistic get-out-of-jail-free card , dealt to keep his film from being pigeonholed as the luxuriously subsidized awards season contender it frequently plays like . The emotions that flow forth at the close of Blitz are real . " We need never be ashamed of our tears , " wrote Dickens in Great Expectations . Still , McQueen 's shameless campaign on our collective nasolacrimal ducts bears scrutiny . Blitz knows what it 's doing and why , but its compromises may be more self-deceiving than subversive . Cloaking himself more heavily than ever in populist hand-me-downs , McQueen gets swallowed up by his own brilliant disguise .
