<p> Created by a visionary cadre of Arab leaders and aided by the signing of the Document on Human Fraternity for World Peace and Living Together in 2019 and the Abraham Accords in 2020 , The Project has ushered in a new era of amity , unity and mutual respect in the United Arab Emirates . <p> In a region of the world marked by religious strife and violence , the UAE 's diverse , primarily expat citizenry of approximately 11 million coexists in a state of enviable harmony . Perhaps the most compelling feature of The Project has been the emergence -- over the past 20 years -- of a visible and cohesive Jewish community , complete with a synagogue , religious school , and kosher restaurants , all with the blessing of His Highness , Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan , the UAE 's president . <p> " What exists in the UAE is a project of the future , in essence , a future where human beings put their energy into development , technological progress , cultural exchange , innovation , and building rather than hatred and violence , " Ross Kriel , one of the leaders of the local Jewish community , told The Media Line . <p> An insider , Kriel has been conducting business in the Emirates since 2008 and moved to Dubai with his family in 2013 . Speaking of The Project in the UAE , he said , " It is a future where Jews and Muslims do n't consider their religious differences to be an impediment . Where , in general , our religious identities and commitments ... help in sensing a shared human desire for transcendence and personal refinement . " Illustrative image of Chabad emissary to the United Arab Emirates , Rabbi Zvi Kogan ( credit : Canva , REUTERS/CHRISTOPHER PIKE , SECTION 27A COPYRIGHT ACT ) <h> Israeli tourists visit the UAE <p> Kriel is not alone in his enthusiasm for life in the UAE . Between 2020 and 2023 , over one million Israelis visited . Though the UAE 's Jewish community is often cited as comprising 500 members , other sources put the true estimate at closer to 3,000 . While the majority of Jews in the Emirates live in Dubai , Abu Dhabi is also a hub . In 2023 , 1,000 Israeli businesses were operating in the UAE , according to the Dubai International Chamber . <p> So remarkable was the existence of a thriving local Jewish community in this region that a visiting filmmaker was moved to document an implausible-sounding story : In 2019 -- the year before the signing of the Abraham Accords -- local Jews commissioned the writing of a Torah scroll and presented it as a gesture of thanks to His Highness . This story formed the central plot of the 2021 film , Amen , Amen , Amen , which has been screened around the world . <p> " Our film showed a phenomenon of religious tolerance in the Middle East that was unknown a few years ago and was a counter to the dominant narrative of religious violence , " Tom Gallagher , the film 's director , told The Media Line . <p> Furthering the UAE 's mission of interfaith co-existence , in March 2023 , a complex called the Abrahamic Family House opened on Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi , quickly garnering recognition from Time Magazine as " one of the world 's greatest places . " An architectural marvel , it boasts three houses of worship : Eminence Ahmed El-Tayeb Mosque , St. Francis Church , and Moses Ben Maimon Synagogue . <p> Rabbi Yehuda Sarna is the senior religious adviser of the synagogue at the Abrahamic Family House and the former chief rabbi of the Jewish Council of the Emirates . " The establishment of a Jewish community in the UAE has created a new center of gravity in the global Jewish map . Thousands of Jews reside in the UAE with a high level of trust in the leadership . Hundreds of thousands of Jews , if not millions , have visited over the past few years , " he told The Media Line . <p> The Project hit its first serious roadblock in late November with the kidnapping and murder of 28-year-old Rabbi Zvi Kogan , a Chabad emissary . The brutal event sent shockwaves around the world , far beyond the confines of the local Jewish community . In the days following , condemnations from the Emirati government came swiftly , together with the arrest of three suspects . <p> In a jointly written opinion piece , the Anti-Defamation League 's CEO and national director , Jonathan Greenblatt , and Ali Rashid al-Nuami , chairman of both the Manara Center for Coexistence and Dialogue and the Defense Affairs , Interior and Foreign Affairs Committee of the UAE Federal National Council , mourned this hate crime and emphasized the UAE 's commitment to peace . <p> The headline stated : " Those who murdered Rabbi Kogan have already failed . Together , we declare : Terror has failed , peace will prevail . The UAE will continue to be a lighthouse of hope in the region . " <p> But even as the UAE rushes to condemn the violence and reaffirm its core principles of religious tolerance , respect , and peaceful coexistence , sources report that the local Jewish community is feeling shaken . <p> The day after the body of Rabbi Kogan was discovered , The Media Line spoke -- on condition of anonymity -- with a New York-based Jewish businessman who has maintained a longstanding relationship with the UAE . He takes a nuanced approach at this phase of The Project , having noted cooling friendships towards Jews after October 7 , 2023 . <p> " In the Emirates , the leadership is very ahead of the crowd , bold . ... They said , ' We 'll build a different future , one that is more inclusive . ' The population understood this , but after 10/7 , as very , very difficult , harsh circumstances in Gaza and Lebanon emerged , the ( local ) population has expressed great sympathy for Palestinians being devastated by the brutal war , " he told The Media Line . <p> No one should be surprised by their allegiance to the Palestinian cause , he said . " The population of the UAE includes 150 different nationalities . The entirety of the Middle East is represented there . Schools can not all be in sync with the message of tolerance when there is agitation at home . " <p> Tensions over Israel 's war in Gaza permeate the business realm as well . Since October 7 , 2023 , there has been a dampening of enthusiasm in the UAE about pursuing business relationships with Israel . While " business as usual " is still the motto , it is now being conducted beneath a cloak of silence . <h> Security concerns <p> Since October 7 , and especially now after the rabbi 's murder , the American businessman 's concerns for the security of Jews in the UAE have grown . Troubling comments have been made to colleagues at work and to Jewish children who attend local schools , he said . <p> " There is the sense that the love affair is over , the glow has been dimmed . Nobody should be shocked by that , " he added . <p> This has profoundly affected Jews ' daily lives there . After October 7 , there were additional security concerns that forced the local Jewish community to stop all daily prayer services except for those in Abu Dhabi . " After 10/7 , for principal reasons , they kept the Abrahamic Family house operational , because they can secure that , but they also do n't want people hosting haphazard prayer services , " the businessman said . The leadership knows there is an agitated population , he added . That is a brand-new reality . <p> When asked whether he has been affected by the sea change in the Emirates , he shrugged and said : " I am not living there . I arrive and go in and out of meetings . " <p> Others living and working in the region are unconcerned . For Kriel , the tragedy of Rabbi Kogan 's murder is personal , but not a threat to Jews in the UAE . <p> " What is the fallout ? " he asked . " It 's a personal tragedy for the Kogan family in particular and for community members as well . Rabbi Kogan was somebody that we interacted with on a personal basis ; a lovely human being . People are very upset , but my fundamental conviction is that the community will remain on its current course , patiently building Jewish life in the UAE , something that all of us are very passionate about . " <p> Although the intent of the murder might have been to undermine The Project , Kriel hopes that " it will have the opposite effect , motivate us to build this project , " he said . <p> Similarly , Gallagher , the filmmaker , remains confident that the upward trajectory of tolerance in the UAE will continue . " Ten or 15 years ago when the Jewish community in the UAE was still tiny and struggling to find its place , a terrible incident like this one might have stifled that growth , " he said . The fact that the Jewish community there is now so " strong and proud and embedded into the fabric of Emirati society , I do n't see them as being intimidated at all . " <p> " This was an awful and sobering incident , but the Jews there also know how rare such violence is in the UAE , and that vigilance and protection will be redoubled , " he added . <p> Rabbi Sarna , who also serves as a chaplain at New York University , which has seen its share of verbal violence and protests over the past year , is similarly reassured by the UAE 's staunch leadership and zero-tolerance approach to violence . <p> " The establishment of a Jewish community in the UAE has created a new center of gravity in the global Jewish map . While we are enduring the pain of Zvi 's death , we are reassured by the rapid apprehension of the culprits and are recommitting ourselves to the original and historic journey of building Jewish life in this country , " he said . <p> The American businessman shared a forecast that includes the possibility of hope . " The real significance of the murder will be known only in the weeks ahead , " he said , adding that the Jews who live in the UAE are committed to living there . <p> " Some are transients , some old timers and new people have moved in since 10/7 . " But they are there , he said , " because they believe in the message coming from the leadership , which he thinks is " 100% sincere . " <p> An inclusive , tolerant , anti-extremist modern society is " the DNA of the Emirates , " he added . This mandate comes directly from Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed , the UAE president . <p> " This is his message to his nation . The UAE fights extremism and they believe in creating an open society with respect , stability , and safety for their citizens , " he asserted . <p> Two weeks after the murder of Rabbi Kogan , observers of The Project are wrestling with its legacy . " Obviously , safety is something that we are always considering . That being said , we 're focused on building back stronger , " Rabbi Motti Seligson , director of media relations at Chabad-Lubavitch , told The Media Line . <p> " This is what Rabbi Kogan dedicated his life to -- helping others materially as well as spiritually and expanding and building Jewish life in the Emirates . " <p> The exhilaration of participating in The Project will help the Emirati Jewish community transcend this difficult moment , stated Kriel . " Most of us early pioneers , who came to Dubai 10 and 15 years ago , feel very passionate about how our community fits into the patchwork of religions and ethnicities . It is exciting to be here , engaging in a project of such hopefulness , " he said . <p> Gallagher , the filmmaker , frames the situation this way : " The birth of the Jewish community in the UAE was a miracle in the desert , and no one wants to see that miracle die . "
