<h> Beyond the headlines : A weekly glimpse into the Israel you wo n't read about in the news <p> Sheryl Sandberg speaks at the JFNA General Assembly. ( photo credit : sivanrahavmeir.com ) <p> We are now in the Hebrew month of Kislev , with the light-filled holiday of Hanukkah soon approaching . Did you learn about Kislev and Hanukkah in kindergarten ? Because everything we learned then still holds true today ! Here are a few points : <p> It is a month that highlights the struggle between the forces of good and evil . The side that will ultimately emerge victorious is not the stronger one , but the one that represents the truth . All our enemies will soon find themselves in the " dustbin of history . " <p> Kislev is a month of military as well as spiritual strength . <p> There are times when we need to maintain our courage over an extended period , making it difficult to keep up the momentum . But the month of Kislev reminds us that we must continually grow as we move forward . In Hebrew , this is called " mosif v'holeich , " referring to the fact that each day of Hanukkah , we add another candle until the entire menorah shines with all eight Hanukkah candles . Nevertheless , each day has its own light . Similarly , if we manage to carry on our daily routine during these challenging days , we will see success in each day . <p> Finally , this is a month of miracles , prayers , and salvation . History has taught us that anything can happen , and we can be surprised by something good we never anticipated . A small container of oil miraculously provided enough oil for eight days , and in the end , the light was greater than we could have ever imagined . <p> May we see the miracles of those days recurring in our times , God willing , very soon . <p> WE ENTER Kislev with great hopes for a collective miracle . ( credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <h> Higher ! <p> Sheryl Sandberg addressed the Jewish leaders gathered at the General Assembly in Washington , DC , with a simple yet profound experiment . " Everyone , raise your hand as high as you can , " she instructed . <p> As the audience complied , she added , " Now , raise it an inch higher . " Remarkably , each person managed to lift their hand even further . " See that ? " she said . " When we think we 've done all we can , we realize we can do more -- and we do . And we have ! " <p> Sandberg 's message reflects the resilience and determination unfolding among Jews worldwide in the wake of recent tragedies . This collective awakening has even been given a name : " The Jews of October 8th " -- those who rose anew the day after . <p> A billionaire and former COO of Meta , Sandberg also spearheaded the production of Screams Before Silence , a film documenting Hamas ' atrocities against women on October 7th . On stage , she described her shock at the lack of response from women 's organizations and the global community . " The silence was deafening , " she said on stage . " All the work we did together for years for women , it was as if none of that had ever happened . " <p> The events of that Simchat Torah fundamentally changed her , but in a profoundly positive way . " In the past , people would ask me : Are you a Jewish-American or an American-Jew ? Which part of your identity comes first ? Since October 7th , I sit here as a different person . Today , being Jewish is as central to my identity as anything else . I sit here as a proud Zionist and a proud Jew , in a way I could n't have imagined a year and a half ago . " <p> Sandberg urged the audience to focus not solely on antisemitism or anti-Israel sentiment , but on the strength and beauty of Jewish identity . Quoting journalist Bari Weiss , she emphasized : " Our identity as Jews has to be more rooted in Sinai than in Auschwitz . That 's true , because being Jewish is a wonderful thing -- a tradition of charity , of caring for others , of knowledge , of study , of family , and of community . " <p> She shared a personal story : " Last January , I asked my daughter what she wanted for her birthday . She was n't particularly affiliated but she said she wanted a Jewish Star , and she 's worn it every day since then . So have I , and so have my two other daughters . My middle daughter is president of the Jewish affinity club in her school . She was n't a member a year and a half ago ! I am born again , and that has had some beautiful moments . I am part of this community in a different way . " <p> Will October 7th be remembered not only as a day of unspeakable tragedy but also as a turning point -- a day of global Jewish awakening ? Can we all raise our hands just a little higher ? Thank you , Sheryl , for inspiring us to try . <p> Bringing Torah to Bezalel <p> Last week I received a message about a Torah scroll dedication ceremony that took place at the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design . This was a notable occasion , since it was the first Torah scroll ever brought to this prestigious college . Established back in 1906 , Bezalel once prided itself on its left-leaning , anti-religious agenda . Today , that is slowly changing . <p> The new Torah scroll represented a joint effort : The curtain for the ark housing the Torah was designed by Bezalel students ; the Torah mantle was donated by the family of fallen soldier St. Sgt. Shilo Amir ; and the Torah scroll itself was a gift from Chabad on Campus . This particular scroll was restored after being damaged during the Simchat Torah massacre in one of the Gaza border communities . <p> " In a beautiful moment of unity , we all came together to write the final letters of the Torah scroll , " wrote the Bezalel student . " It 's fitting that Bezalel , the academy 's namesake , was the artisan who built the Tabernacle for the Israelites in the desert . " <h> The Woman 's Role <p> This week 's parasha contains one of the most difficult verses in the Torah . During her painful years of being childless , Rachel lashes out at Jacob : " Give me children , and if not , I am dead . " <p> Commentators have given various explanations for this emotionally charged exchange between Rachel and Jacob . Six hundred years ago , Spanish Rabbi Isaac Arama wrote that every woman has two purposes in life . The first is to give birth to and bring up children and the other is " to be educated in wisdom and piety . " Rabbi Arama wrote that Rachel 's words were misplaced because she only focused on one of her missions but ignored the second one : to study and become educated , to learn Torah and do good deeds . That is also an integral part of a woman 's mission . <p> Professor Nechama Leibowitz quotes Rabbi Arama 's explanation in her books and explains how fundamentally important it is . She writes that Rachel is fleeing from fulfilling part of her mission ; Rachel did not understand that she had additional functions in life beyond giving birth . Later in the parasha , we are told that Rachel gave birth to Joseph and then to Benjamin . <p> We can only contemplate what Professor Leibowitz herself thought of what she had written . She was highly successful in being " educated in wisdom and piety " but never merited to give birth .
