<p> The announcement comes as Trump aims to reshape Middle East diplomacy in his second term . <p> As President-elect Donald Trump continues to craft his second-term agenda , he announced a key advisor on Sunday that could impact his handling of affairs in the Middle East . <p> By tapping Lebanese American businessman Massad Boulos as his senior advisor on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs , Trump is bringing on board a key campaign surrogate whose son Michael is also married to his daughter Tiffany . <p> The president-elect -- who was able to exploit Democratic divisions over the war in Gaza and pry away some Muslim and Arab American voters from Vice President Kamala Harris in the general election -- reaffirmed on Sunday that he wants to form " tremendous new coalitions " with Arab Americans . <p> " Massad is a dealmaker , and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East , " Trump wrote on his Truth Social platform . " He will be a strong advocate for the United States , and its interests , and I am pleased to have him on our team ! " <p> Trump 's selection of Boulos is a signal that he 'll seek his own diplomatic imprint in the Middle East , which for over a year has seen the war in Gaza become one of the most devastating and polarizing ongoing conflicts in the world , reverberating in Lebanon , Yemen , and now Syria . <p> Since the start of the Israel-Hamas war in October 2023 , over 40,000 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza , according to The Associated Press . <p> President Joe Biden 's handling of the conflict was a significant issue in the US presidential race , with Harris pledging that she and the president were working hard for a cease-fire agreement . But the conflict likely chipped away at Harris ' Arab American support , as well as that of some progressive Democrats who had long opposed both the war and American military aid to Israel . <p> During the 2024 campaign , Boulos traveled throughout Michigan to promote Trump 's candidacy among Arab American and Muslim voters , The New York Times reported . <p> " We do n't have to win over everybody , " Boulos told the newspaper shortly before the election . " There are some that strongly believe that they would n't vote for either of the major candidates . That 's fine with us. "
