<p> President-elect Donald Trump 's stunning announcement that he will nominate Kash Patel as FBI director sets the stage for a fresh round of turbulence at a law enforcement agency tasked with protecting the homeland and investigating federal crimes . Patel , a steadfast Trump ally with plans to shake up the institution he 's been tapped to lead , is a study in contrasts from the current tight-lipped director who preaches a " keep calm and tackle hard " mantra . The announcement means that current FBI Director Christopher Wray can either resign from the job , consistent with Trump 's apparent wishes , or wait to be fired once Trump takes office in January . Meanwhile , Patel is likely to face deep skepticism during his confirmation hearings even in a Republican-led Senate . <p> Trump threatens 100% tariff on the BRIC bloc of nations if they act to undermine US dollar <p> WEST PALM BEACH , Fla . ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is threatening 100% tariffs against a bloc of nine nations if they act to undermine the U.S. dollar . His threat was directed at countries in the so-called BRIC alliance , which consists of Brazil , Russia , India , China , South Africa , Egypt , Ethiopia , Iran and the United Arab Emirates .. Trump says he wants a commitment from the bloc that it will not create a new currency or otherwise try to undermine the U.S. dollar . <p> Young men swung to the right for Trump after a campaign dominated by masculine appeals <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- Young men shifted toward Donald Trump in the 2024 presidential election in a change from recent years , when most young male voters backed the Democratic candidate . Young white men already supported him in 2020 and shifted slightly farther right this time . Young Latino men were about evenly split between the two candidates . Most young Black men backed Democrat Kamala Harris , though about a third supported Trump . Trump 's campaign for the Oval Office was dominated by appeals to traditional masculinity , conveyed in appearances in nontraditional media . His campaign believed that tactic would boost his support among men who otherwise do not pay attention to political media . <p> BEIRUT ( AP ) -- Thousands of Syrian insurgents have taken over most of Aleppo , establishing positions in the country 's largest city and controlling its airport before expanding their shock offensive to a nearby province . They faced little to no resistance from government troops Saturday , according to fighters and activists . Thousands of fighters also moved on , facing almost no defense from government forces . They seized towns and villages in northern Hama , a province where they had a presence before being expelled by government troops in 2016 . They claimed to have entered the city of Hama . In his first public comments since the offensive began , President Bashar Assad said Syria will continue to " defend its stability and territorial integrity against terrorists and their supporters . " <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- An Israeli airstrike on a car in the Gaza Strip killed five people including employees of World Central Kitchen . The charity says it is " urgently seeking more details " Saturday after Israel 's military said it targeted a World Central Kitchen worker who had been part of the Hamas attack that sparked the war . The charity says it is " heartbroken " and adds that it had no knowledge anyone in the car had alleged ties to the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack . It says it is pausing operations in Gaza . It paused them earlier this year after an Israeli strike killed seven of its workers . Also on Saturday , Hamas released a new hostage video of Israeli-American Edan Alexander . <p> Storm blankets parts of the US during busy holiday travel weekend with more snow and cold forecast <p> BUFFALO , N.Y . ( AP ) -- The first big snowfall of the season has blanketed parts of New York , Pennsylvania and Michigan during the hectic U.S. holiday travel and shopping weekend . Numbing cold and heavy snow could persist through the early part of the week and cause hazards in the Great Lakes , Plains and Midwest regions . The National Weather Service says the heaviest snow totals are expected downwind of lakes Erie and Ontario , affecting areas from northeast Ohio , far northwest Pennsylvania , western New York State and portions of northwest New York state . Cold air is expected to move over the eastern third of the U.S. by Monday with temperatures about 10 degrees below average . <p> A landmark climate change case will open at the top UN court as island nations fear rising seas <p> THE HAGUE ( AP ) -- The top United Nations court will take up the largest case in its history on Monday . It opens two weeks of hearings into what countries worldwide are legally required to do to combat climate change and help vulnerable nations fight its devastating impact . Island nations who fear they could simply disappear under rising sea waters have lobbied for years for such a court case . The U.N . General Assembly asked the International Court of Justice last year for an opinion on " the obligations of States in respect of climate change . " <p> A twice-yearly shot could help end AIDS . But will it get to everyone who needs it ? <p> MEXICO CITY ( AP ) -- A twice-yearly shot that prevents HIV infections will be available at low cost in 120 poor countries . But nearly all of Latin America was exluded from the deal with drugmaker Gilead , sparking concern the world is missing a critical opportunity to stop AIDS . The shot was 100% effective in preventing HIV infections in a study of women , and results published Wednesday show it worked nearly as well in men . The drug is already sold to treat HIV infections and Gilead plans to seek approval soon to use it to guard against infections . <p> Southwest Airlines says it is ending cabin service earlier to reduce chance of injury <p> Southwest Airlines is ending its cabin service earlier starting next month . Beginning on Dec. 4 , a company spokesperson says flight attendants will begin preparing the cabin for landing at an altitude of 18,000 feet instead of 10,000 feet . The company says it 's making the changes to reduce the risk of in-flight turbulence injuries . For passengers , that means they will need to return their seats to an upright position or do other pre-landing procedures earlier than before . While turbulence-related fatalities are quite rare , injuries have piled up over the years . <p> Lou Carnesecca , Hall of Fame coach who led St. John 's for 24 seasons , has died at 99 <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Lou Carnesecca , the excitable St. John 's coach whose outlandish sweaters became an emblem of his team 's rousing Final Four run in 1985 , has died at 99 , just a few weeks shy of what would have been his 100th birthday . The university announced Carnesecca 's death Saturday night , saying in a statement the Hall of Fame coach died surrounded by his family and had " endeared himself to generations of New Yorkers with his wit and warmth . " Carnesecca was a treasured figure in New York sports in his day , affection for " Looie " never wavering in a city with little patience for its players , coaches , executives and owners . He went 526-200 in 24 seasons over two stints at St. John 's before retiring in 1992 . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
