<p> THEN-US PRESIDENT Donald Trump hosts Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , as well as the foreign ministers of Bahrain ( left ) and the UAE , at the signing ceremony of the Abraham Accords on the South Lawn of the White House , September 15 , 2020. ( photo credit : TOM BRENNER/REUTERS ) <p> Many American Jews and a minority of Israeli Jews share deep concerns about a second Trump presidency : will it strengthen or weaken American democracy and its global standing , and which faction of Trump 's policy team will prevail -- the isolationist wing or the interventionist camp ? <p> This is not to say those same people did not have real concerns about the nature of a potential Harris administration , especially on the question of Israel . However , we are now after the election , and this question becomes academic . <p> The initial appointments that relate to national security and foreign relations look hawkish and are certainly filled with politicians known for their stridently positive opinions about Israel . Marco Rubio , the designated secretary of state , has been a powerful advocate for Israel for many years . <p> The ambassador designated to Israel is Mike Huckabee , a pastor and former Arkansas governor who has also been to Israel many times as a tour guide . Yanir Kozin , in an early interview on the IDF radio station , said he would welcome the annexation of Judea and Samaria , but that policy will be up to the president . <p> Kozin also interviewed former Efrat mayor Oded Revivi on the same topic , who also sounded a note of caution , having witnessed the prospect of annexation unravel in Washington , D.C. , in 2020 . Along with Mike Waltz as national security advisor and Pete Hegseth as defense secretary , this is a powerful pro-Israel group . PM Benjamin Netanyahu and his wife Sara meet Donald Trump at Mar-a-Lago , Florida , July 26 , 2024. ( credit : AMOS BEN-GERSHOM/GPO ) <h> Pro-Israel , but not the whole story <p> These appointments will definitely find favor with Israel 's right-wing government and public , and no doubt Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will be relieved not to be faced with a Harris administration . Even under Trump , the prospect of isolationist appointments representing the more hard-core America First agenda would have been a poor signal for Israel . <p> This though , is not the whole story . Opportunities lay ahead , but not without difficult political decisions . Jonathan Rynhold , professor of political science and expert on American-Israel relations , points out factors we should consider when looking at the strategic outlook given the coming change in administration . <p> The first point he makes is that the thread connecting his appointments thus far is the personal loyalty that he feels from the appointees . Just as in the first Trump administration , they will know as soon as that is not the case , they will be out on their ear . <p> This need for hyper-loyalty will likely apply to relations with Netanyahu too , who was in hot water with Trump in 2020 after congratulating President Biden on a victory that Trump has never accepted . <p> The second aspect that Rynhold points out is the transactional nature of Trump 's politics , which will include how he sees the region . If the target for Trump is a grand deal that includes Saudi Arabia , this will challenge some of the more optimistic assumptions being made by the far or hard-right sections of Netanyahu 's coalition . <p> The most obvious right-wing marker is Finance Minister and leader of the Religious Zionist Party Bezalel Smotrich , who tweeted on November 11 , within a week of Trump 's victory , " 2025 -- The year of sovereignty in Judea and Samaria . " <p> RYNHOLD ADDS that if Israel is offered a normalization deal with Saudi Arabia -- which includes the principle of a two-state solution ( even if far across the horizon ) and nearer-term commitments on the control of Gaza and the position of the Palestinian Authority -- Netanyahu may have a difficult decision to make , choosing between his commitments to Smotrich and their combined right-wing base and the potential diplomatic wrath of a president known for taking things personally . <p> In a recent interview in Makor Rishon , former Knesset speaker and current chair of the Knesset Foreign Affairs Committee , MK Yuli Edelstein expressed a similar concern . <p> " I spoke about sovereignty long before it was popular . " But he reflected that " there will be two problems : opposition from the Left , but also opposition from our own side . " And why would there be opposition from the right ? <p> " When we extend sovereignty to Ma'aleh Adumim and Gush Etzion as a first step , there will be those who rise up to shout , ' You have sold the Land of Israel . You have made concessions ! ' There is no such reality , wherein a Trump administration or indeed any other constellation that we will receive everything in one go . " <p> Edelstein knows what he 's talking about . When Trump offered Israel the possibility of annexation under the " Peace to Prosperity " plan in January 2020 , it was rejected by the settler movement leadership for exactly those reasons . It was not an immediate and full annexation and opened the real , if distant , possibility of some form of Palestinian sovereignty . <p> Shalom Lipner is a shrewd commentator with experience working with seven Israeli prime ministers . In Foreign Affairs he describes how the political challenges for Netanyahu are in direct tension with his diplomatic opportunities . <p> He predicts that " Netanyahu will have to read the tea leaves correctly . He needs to seize the moment and wind down Israel 's wars before they begin to cause more harm than good and -- no less fatefully -- create a rift with Trump . <p> If Netanyahu can stand up to his coalition partners , he might still be able to end the conflicts and leave Trump the clean desk he asked for . But time is short . " <p> This may demand uncharacteristically bold decision-making from Netanyahu . <p> It has always been my personal view that a one-sided annexation of Judea and Samaria would be a strategic disaster for Israel , taking it down the road of becoming a post-democratic country . This for me would be a betrayal of my Jewish and Zionist values . <p> A broad Middle Eastern coalition , building on the Abraham Accords , could offer an alternate route , a possibility that Hamas wanted to prevent at the cost of the destruction of much of Gaza following their heinous attack on October 7 . <p> Ironically , Trump 's and perhaps Netanyahu 's desire to secure their places in history books , as well as Netanyahu 's understanding of the positive geopolitical change a deal with Saudi Arabia would bring , might be just the circumstance that ends the fantasy of significant parts of the religious Right . <p> We may witness major developments in the Middle East under the Trump regime , and we should all hope , no matter our political views , that they lead to a secure future for Israel as a Jewish and democratic country . <p> The writer , a founding partner of Goldrock Capital , is the founder of The Institute for Jewish and Zionist Research . He is a former chairman of Gesher , World Bnei Akiva , and the Coalition for Haredi Employment .
