<p> Currently at the top of all the pop radio station charts , from Galei Tzahal to Reshet Gimmel , the song has millions of views on YouTube , is played at weddings and events , and frequently features on Channel 14 's The Patriots program . <p> An amalgam of Mizrahi , hassidic , and Mediterranean influences , the song transcends all of those genres to become quintessentially Israeli . Its origins trace back to Breslov Hassidism , with lyrics inspired by Rabbi Shalom Arush . Its ecstatic refrain , climbing in modulation and reaching a catharsis reminiscent of the Na-Nach-Nachma-Nachman vans music blared out at Jerusalem street intersections by Breslov-dancing hippies : " Hashem loves me , and everything will be good , even better . " <p> The song has been recorded by artists Yair Elitzur , Kobi Peretz , and Itzik Dadia . But it is Shaulov 's version , released in September , that has taken off and become ubiquitous on the local musical landscape . Reb Nachman 's followers drive through Jerusalem 's Geula neighborhood in a van decorated with his image and name . ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <h> ' A beautiful , happy life ' <p> Its uplifting nature resonates with listeners , offering a sense of transcendence , connection , and devotion . The hypnotic and infectious rhythm makes listeners want to rise to their feet , lift their hands to the heavens , and sing : " Even better , even better . " <p> Its promise ? Absolute happiness : " There will be livelihood , wealth , matches for the unmarried , and complete health . " Essentially , " A beautiful , happy life , year after year . " <p> After more than a year of war , and with 101 hostages still languishing in Gaza , the rise of " Tamid Ohev Oti " coincides with a deep longing for positivity , overshadowing critiques , leaks , and failures . <p> Is its success simply a desire to believe that there are better days ahead , or a concession that maybe hope and gratitude is the only way to get through these times ? <p> For the same reason , it 's become a sensation -- accentuating the positive -- it 's also been criticized for sugarcoating the reality of today 's struggling society and for sounding like just another song one hears sung with fervor at religious weddings . <p> According to musicologist David Peretz , a longtime musician , songwriter , and lecturer on Israeli music at Sapir Academic College in Sderot , the song has landed at a moment in which the cultural norms have shifted in the country . The one special element that made this song big is demographics . The demographics in Israel have changed significantly in the last few years , " he told The Jerusalem Post . <p> " In the past , Israeli culture was the culture of the minority that thought it was the majority . In the past few years , with the rise of a type of music that could be called ' religious pop , ' God has become a pop star . A lot of people commented , ' What 's this , where did it come from ? The religious are taking over , the settlers are taking over . ' In reality , they were always there , but they did n't have legitimacy to be a part of mainstream Israeli culture . " <p> Peretz , who also researches Mizrahi music at the Tammuz Institute , provided a story that he says explains the song 's popularity across the Israeli cultural spectrum . " Yesterday , I was near Haifa at a non-kosher restaurant , and there was a woman working there in modern dress , tights , and a halter top , but when she entered a room , she kissed the mezuza on the wall . And that 's the whole story with this song , " he said . <p> " It 's perfectly clear that not everybody who 's singing along to it today actually is a believer . But it does n't hurt . I 'm sure that the song is a guilty pleasure of north Tel Avivians . They may not believe that ' Hashem loves me , ' but they feel ' Let me just enjoy this for a minute ... because what else is there to do ? ' " <p> " I see this integration as a positive development in the extreme , for Israeli culture , " Peretz added . <p> Some may call it sticking their heads in the sand or accepting a messianic , benevolent universe , but " Tamid Ohev Oti " has become a cultural touchstone , offering an alternative lens : a parallel universe where life is indeed good -- and might just get better . <p> It 's more than a song ; it 's a phenomenon symbolizing denial and escapism . Perhaps , it suggests , we 're not as badly off as the headlines imply .
