<p> The year 2024 had us hugging our cookbooks . They brought us solace , nostalgia , inspiration , delight , reclamation , beauty and deliciousness when much of the rest of the world seemed to induce fear and uncertainty . <p> Our list of favorites for 2024 includes something for every kind of food book lover . <p> Recipes came from a tiny creek in the Appalachians and the rice terraces of Yunnan . Through them , authors gave voice to their ancestors , explored identity , put spins on centuries-old traditions , shared their love for Sicilian sweets , Chinese breakfasts , heirloom beans . <p> This year 's list also features fresh books from many Los Angeles authors . Cook vegetables better with Sarah Hymanson and Sara Kramer 's " Kismet , " or make saag paneer lasagna and green chutney pizza from " Amrikan " by food writer Khushbu Shah . " Wafu " is a California take on " Japanese-style " fusion , by way of cooking teacher Sonoko Sakai . Former L.A. Times cooking columnist Ben Mims dives deep into cookies from around the world . And Adrienne Borlongan , founder of Wanderlust Creamery , shows us exactly how to re-create her wildly wonderful flavors for ice cream . <p> After a seven-year break following the 2017 publication of her 11th cookbook , Joan Nathan emerged in 2024 with two new cookbooks , each a meaningful addition to the evolving story of food and identity . In " My Life in Recipes , " Nathan , as I wrote earlier this year , tells not only the story of how she became the world 's preeminent expert on Jewish food but also how her life and recipes reflect the ever-broadening tastes of the American palate and her lifelong search for what binds many disparate cultures together . More than 100 recipes , some updates of her classics and others she developed more recently , are woven into the memoir . In the brand-new " A Sweet Year , " organized with a chapter and overview for each Jewish holiday , Nathan has devised what should become a children 's cooking classic . With an inspired structure for teaching young cooks , each recipe specifies steps that can be done by the child alone , by the child with an adult and when the adult should take charge . And while there are fun kid-specific foods such as rainbow-colored challah and chicken schnitzel tenders , her book is full of recipes that cooks of any age would be proud to serve . -- Laurie Ochoa <p> Kiano Moju 's " AfriCali " cookbook shares her perspective as someone who was born to a Kenyan mother and a Nigerian father , grew up in the Bay Area ( with summers often spent visiting her Maasai family in Kenya ) and has since traveled all over the world . Family ties are celebrated with her mom 's steak and capers and a handful of recipes from her grandmother , including Koko 's pancakes and Koko 's cabbage . But more often , Moju demonstrates the universality of the cuisines that shaped her with dishes that merge influences , such as berbere-braised pork tacos and mango and ginger scones , a pastry she perfected during graduate school in London . A culinary producer turned recipe archivist through her Jikoni Archive nonprofit , Moju 's book also shares insight into the culinary history of Kenya , including the influence of Arab traders who settled along the Swahili Coast . You 'll learn how international dishes are reinterpreted in the East African country , such as biriyani that layers saucy chicken over saffron rice and chai masala that can be used to make tea or other dishes that call for ginger . -- Danielle Dorsey <p> For her debut cookbook , Khushbu Shah gathers recipes that blend traditional Indian dishes with the ingenuity of Indian mothers who substitute American grocery store items for hard-to-find ingredients . The resulting adaptations are delightful dishes of the diaspora that highlight the cuisine 's diversity . Named for the desi word used to describe something American , " Amrikan " contains recipes for green chutney pizza , saag paneer lasagna , tandoori chicken wings and masala deviled eggs . Former restaurant editor for Food &amp; Wine , Shah uses color and humor to create a delicious world with visual aids like a rainbow chart of the Amrikan pantry , a three-panel guide on basic dosa making and " objects of the diaspora bingo " ( Shoe pile by the door ? Check ! Yogurt container not filled with yogurt ? Check ! ) . I am obsessed with the photo of breakfast cereal chevvdo that uses Rice Chex , Kix and cornflakes in place of dried lentils and flattened rice , stored in a circular blue Danish butter cookie tin for true immigrant household authenticity . If you are a child of immigrants who ever asked your parents to please make a dish your friends would eat and got a little more than you bargained for , this book is for you . -- Sarah Mosqueda <p> Bestselling cookbook author and Food Network personality Ina Garten has popularized phrases like " How easy is that ? " and " Store-bought is fine , " making entertaining like a domestic goddess feel attainable rather than aspirational . Her latest release is n't a cookbook in the traditional sense ; it 's her long-awaited memoir , " Be Ready When the Luck Happens . " Her successful career is one she partly credits to luck , and fans get a deeper look at her life before she became the Barefoot Contessa and the skills she sharpened like a chef 's knife to get there . The few recipes included are choice ones that highlight memorable moments in her life : coq au vin , a classic French stew she had for the first time when she and her husband , Jeffrey , backpacked through Europe as newlyweds , for example . Or Emily Blunt 's English roasted potatoes , which the actress made with Garten on an episode of her television series " Cook Like a Pro . " This really is a memoir you can eat . How lucky is that ? -- S.M. <p> Steve Sando is the man behind Rancho Gordo , the heirloom bean company you have no doubt seen at your local gourmet market or on the menu of your favorite restaurant . Sando has made a career of saving , sourcing , growing and cooking with heirloom beans and has inspired chefs and home cooks to explore heirloom varietals too . " The Bean Book " contains 100 recipes for cooking all kinds of beans using multiple methods from oven to pressure cooker . There are recipes for bean salads , bean soups , baked beans and bean patties and fillings . A section at the back includes recipes for bean accompaniments , like " Steve 's skillet cornbread , " which according to Sando is the best friend a bowl of beans ever had , aside from the corn tortilla . Sando insists you use his simple " master recipe for pot beans " at least once . " With no stock or pork or much of anything , I think you 'll see that bones and stock are not necessary for good beans , " he writes . -- S.M. <p> " Deciding to write about my Palestinian cuisine and share family stories , as well as celebrate some of the wonderful artisans of Bethlehem , felt natural , " chef Fadi Kattan notes in the introduction to the cookbook he spent over two years documenting and compiling . He wanted the recipes -- framed by beautiful , sense-of-place landscapes and portraits conveyed in photographer Elias Halabi 's images -- to be extensions of the conversations he has with guests in his restaurants in London and Bethlehem . Kattan is especially adept at guiding readers into the flavors of the region with something as simple as eggs fried in samneh ( ghee ) with a sprinkle of lemony sumac for breakfast . He also showcases his own respectful creativity , as in a dish of roasted eggplant , bathed in tahini sauce and covered with fragrant herbs , that 's essentially deconstructed baba ghanoush . The subject also being the civic embodiment of Christmas , Kattan concludes the book with an essay about his family 's celebration traditions and instructions for his grandmother 's holiday spiced fruitcake . Kattan could not have known that the release of the book would coincide with a yearlong war that has decimated the nearby Gaza Strip and killed thousands of Palestinians , but in that context , these pages become even more poignant records of preservation and humanity . -- Bill Addison <p> " Bodega Bakes " is the sweets-centered cookbook from Dominican American pastry chef Paola Velez , who grew up in the Bronx and frequented her local bodega for treats that ranged from traditional Caribbean desserts to M&amp;Ms and Warheads . The recipes draw from these memories , often combining staple Afro-Latine ingredients with classic pastry recipes , such as caf ? Madeleines with t ? de hoja and sticky buns with ripe plantains that celebrity chef Guy Fieri hailed as the best he 's ever tasted . Velez , who during the pandemic co-founded Bakers Against Racism , a community of bakers who raised $2.5 million for social justice causes through decentralized bake sales , offers innovative recipes you wo n't find elsewhere ( see : moringa-soursop swirled cookies and tamarind pecan pie ) but are still approachable for home bakers who are just starting out , with many ingredients available at your local bodega or corner store . -- D.D . <p> Max Rocha serves my kind of aspirational food , the sort of meals I want to make daily -- not because the Irish-leaning dishes at London 's Caf ? Cecilia are ambitious and photo-worthy ( though many are also that ) , but because they strike my ideal balance of simplicity and comfort . Those seasonal soups and pastas and salads and custards are also a world away , but thanks to the chef-owner 's debut cookbook , I can now re-create a bit of his wildly popular restaurant and cafe at home . A childhood spent helping his mother and grandmother in the kitchen translated to a love of baking when Rocha pursued professional cooking later in life . The result ? A signature item at his own cafe that sings to his Irish roots and receives an entire chapter in the new book : Guinness soda bread , which can be enjoyed a la carte or with smoked mackerel p ? t ? or dressed crab or , when day-old , transformed into a Guinness treacle tart . Beyond the beloved bread , the cafe 's day-to-night history can be traced through the 100-plus recipes , from morning and afternoon treats such as cheese scones , potato rosti and sage-and-anchovy fritti ( another signature dish ) to a range of hearty braises and delightful champagne jellies studded with fresh raspberries . Use this book for everyday cooking or to host a pitch-perfect dinner party . -- Stephanie Breijo <p> From the first pages of Kristina Cho 's book , I felt a kinship with the author . Being both Chinese and Eastern European , I 'm often pulled in two directions . I too have been accused of not being " Chinese enough . " Cho 's experience is instantly relatable , whether you 're grappling with your own identity or not . Part cookbook and part autobiography , the recipes help weave the narrative of her experience as a first-generation American-born child of immigrants . This is Chinese food with a California slant , with plenty of substitutions and tips to make the food your own . Her cheesy chrysanthemum and mushroom pockets combine all the best parts of Chinese chive pockets and Hot Pockets . She makes rangoon with smoked mackerel and tosses kohlrabi and watermelon radishes in chili crunch . There are the more traditional recipes too , like steamed pork cake with chives and cilantro . And the overarching theme is one we could all use more of : You , whoever you are , are enough . -- Jenn Harris <p> There are so many ways to appreciate former L.A. Times cooking columnist Ben Mims ' magnum opus on the topic of cookies . With 400 recipes and matching images for many of them , the book covers more shapes and styles and levels of difficulty than a single mind could imagine , from the simplest shortbread to worthy projects like Algerian-Tunisian date-filled semolina cookies fried and rolled in honey syrup . It 's cookie tome as personality test : What draws us most tells us who we are . In that vein , Mims also uses the subject as a dive into history , tracing the origin of the cookie to Persia and organizing sections by global regions . Headnotes reveal the depth of his research . As one tiny example , he 'll lead bakers who find they enjoy the richness of sweetened condensed milk in Estonian cookies to Peruvian macaroons and Brazilian sequilhos that similarly feature the ingredient . Mims even tackles the " What is a cookie ? " question with a philosopher 's seriousness . Which is all to say : While the snickerdoodles are in the oven , you 'll likely lose yourself in the smart writing . -- B.A. <p> Tu ? Nguy ? n is known as Twaydabae to her hundreds of thousands of fans on social media . Her warm , vibrant personality and enthusiasm are palpable in each bubble-gum-pink page , in each recipe intro , smiling photo and illustration . This is Nguy ? n 's love letter to her Vietnamese heritage , with recognizable Vietnamese classic recipes and more modern takes she 's made all her own . Of course it makes sense to make birria tacos with the spicy Vietnamese beef stew bo kho , and to infuse a burger with the black pepper , onions and peppers of bo luc lac . You 'll find a chapter of Nguy ? n 's most internet-famous dishes , with a " viral fried rice " studded with lap cheong ; her chili oil noodles with lemongrass ; and a seafood boil with angel hair pasta . Keep this book around for midweek dinner ideas or a full blueprint for every dish you might want at your next dinner party . -- J.H. <p> For a blend of Italian baked goods old and new , " Dolci " ca n't be beat . That 's because author and first-gen Italian American Renato Poliafito channeled his heritage and his growing pains into a career and a new cookbook that seamlessly integrate Italian , American and Italian American techniques and flavors . The owner of New York 's Pasta Night and Ciao , Poliafito spent much of his adolescence torn between his upbringing in New York and familial visits to Sicily : seen as an Italian while in America , seen as an American while in Italy . In " Dolci " he provides traditional recipes ( bombolini , crostate , struffoli , cassata , gelati ) as well as many of his own inventions , reimagining the iconic Sicilian cuccidati cookies into scones , baking up a festive gingerbread take on amaretti , and glazing zeppole with a sweet-salty tahini sauce . But Poliafito 's " Dolci " is n't just about sweets . The baker also walks us through savory treats like sourdough focaccia and cacio e pepe arancini , as well as a handful of aperitivi , or spritz-like cocktails , for a bridging of cultures across any time of the day . -- S.B. <p> Arielle Johnson -- a food scientist who helped establish the fermentation lab at Noma in Copenhagen and an advisor to some of the world 's top chefs -- breaks down how we experience flavor . What we taste refers to salty , sour , sweet , bitter and umami -- that 's it , that 's all our tongues have receptors for . " Just about everything else is smell , " Johnson writes . The grassiness of herbs , the anisic notes of fennel , the marine flavors of seaweed , the tropical-ness of pineapple ... these come from molecules translated by our scent receptors . Johnson goes deep to explain the multidimensional sensations of flavor and how we can build on these to improve our cooking . Recipes are approachable , easy to follow and flavor-boosting , and the science behind them makes for a fascinating read . -- Betty Hallock <p> I appreciate the ethos of Georgina Hayden 's " Greekish , " a casual , I-do-what-works-for-me approach to cooking inspired by her Greek Cypriot heritage . It 's still a deep dive into the cuisines of Greece and Cyprus , with an acknowledgment of influences from the Jewish community in Thessaloniki , the Venetian occupation of Corfu and the neighboring countries of Bulgaria and Turkey . Recipes are clearly labeled as vegetarian , vegan and/or gluten-free , and chapter divisions are playful and useful , devoted to " things on sticks , " " everyday heroes " and " feasts . " Her many interpretations of baklava are reason enough to buy the book . Baklava buns are cinnamon buns reimagined with a tahini cream cheese frosting and ground cinnamon and toasted walnuts . There 's baklava ricotta semifreddo and baklava cake . The baklava cheesecake is a triumph , with a flaky filo crust and a smooth , creamy filling of feta , cream cheese and white chocolate . -- J.H. <p> This is a book for anyone who loves vegetables , and everyone who wants to be inspired to cook them in fresh and surprising ways . Sarah Hymanson and Sara Kramer are the two L.A. chefs behind Kismet restaurant in Los Feliz and the Kismet Rotisserie takeout shops ( where the tahini roasted cauliflower is as popular as the chicken ) . How is it that the duo can create seemingly simple dishes of mostly vegetables ( and a little meat too ) in smart , surprising ways with so much compelling , complex , zingy flavor ? Thoughtful , colorful , delicious recipes -- which often meet where sunny California and Eastern Mediterranean cooking intersect -- go a long way in showing us how . Bright salads ( a cucumber number they ca n't take off the menu ) , bold and zesty vegetables in surprising combinations ( grapefruit and spice-roasted tomatoes with feta ) and comforting one-pot meals ( a soup for breakfast , lunch or dinner ) make you want to rush to your nearest farmers market . -- B.H. <p> In the follow-up to their 2016 bestselling cookbook " Koreatown , " authors Deuki Hong and Matt Rodbard think even bigger . They expand beyond the flavors of the Korean American diaspora with " Koreaworld " and dig into Korean cuisine 's " global evolution " with recipes and interviews from home cooks , professional chefs and tastemakers around the world . Recipes for smoked giant short ribs and cabbage-and-persimmon kimchi and banana-milk cake and rose tteokbokki and knife-cut noodle soup with perilla-seed powder are interspersed with local profiles and lists of favorite dishes , making it an indispensable travelogue as well as a cookbook . They traverse Korea 's dense cityscapes and pastoral provinces and return to American Koreatowns to plumb the depths of food as culture , musing on where it 's been and where it 's heading . Photographer Alex Lau 's visual work jumps off the pages in candid moments and bright splashes of color , due in part to the fact that all of " Koreaworld 's " images were shot on-site in restaurants and taverns and bustling streets , matching the energy and motion of Hong and Rodbard 's words . -- S.B. <p> In her 100th cookbook , Martha Stewart shares 100 of her favorite recipes and an intimate glimpse into her personal life . Black-and-white photos of Stewart , her family and significant places and milestones over the years are peppered throughout the recipes . She writes like she 's regaling guests at a dinner party , sharing her family 's birthday cake traditions , revealing that Robert Redford was a regular at the Westport , Conn. , shop she opened after leaving her job on Wall Street and explaining why she always has a chicken-coop complex on any property she calls home . She shares the recipe for her mother 's pirogis , plump with silky potato in a brown butter sauce with fried sage . There 's her miso eggplant inspired by friend Nobu Matsuhisa . Each page is a reminder of why Stewart is the queen of entertaining , with a well-curated mix of recipes and tips that are approachable and aspirational. -- J.H. <p> This is a book designed to appeal to every diet and persuasion , whether you 've been plant-based for years or just starting to flirt with the idea . Joe Yonan introduces the basics , building the foundation for a myriad of meals that begin with nut , seed and oat milks , creams , yogurt and cheeses . The sheer number and variety of foods is astounding , with plant-based versions of every imaginable condiment , dressing and crisp represented and a total of more than 450 recipes . The most compelling dishes celebrate actual vegetables , like the whole roasted beets with mole ; huitlacoche and zucchini blossom tacos ; and squash and cabbage salad with roasted grapes and olives . But my favorite part of the book might be the guest essays , written by some of the brightest , most insightful food writers of our time . Nico Vera on decolonizing our diets feels especially relevant . -- J.H. <p> Chef Yotam Ottolenghi and his co-authors define comfort food as simultaneously nurturing , convenient , nostalgic and indulgent . That 's the best way to describe the recipes in " Ottolenghi Comfort : A Cookbook . " The Israeli-born British chef , restaurateur and author taps friends and contemporaries Helen Goh , Verena Lochmuller and Tara Wigley to join him in sharing recipes they turn to again and again . When Ottolenghi 's first cookbook debuted in 2008 , the shift in how cooks prepared and ate vegetables was widely regarded as the " Ottolenghi effect . " With this latest book , he 's poised to shift our viewpoint yet again , showing that comfort food is not necessarily culturally specific . The pages contain recipes for a spectrum of internationally influenced dishes such as German-style sausage rolls , lemongrass and galangal tuna curry and egg sambal " shakshuka . " I was delighted to find a recipe for tortang talong , a Filipino eggplant omelet , that was n't part of my childhood but is a favorite of my spouse who introduced me to the dish . Reimagined with ground lamb and harissa , this version feels like something new while still tasting like home . -- S.M. <p> Novelist and poet Crystal Wilkinson writes movingly about her Black Southern Appalachian foremothers , giving shape and voice to her family 's kitchen ghosts -- those who passed their rural Kentucky foodways from generation to generation . " These women , some of them dead for 200 years , still affect the ways in which I hold my hands , " she says . The memories are palpable : " She held long-necked yellow squash as gentle as babies . " The recipes , from matriarchs in a tiny corner of the hills of Casey County , are universally appealing : jam cake , a good pot of seasoned greens , chicken and dumplings , Benedictine sandwiches and chess pie . One of the suggestions for baking skillet cornbread is to line the bottom of the pan with sliced onions before pouring in the batter . So the result is an onion upside-down cornbread . Regarding pimento cheese , Wilkinson takes a hard line . " I prefer to mix by hand rather than in a food processor . To those who use that appliance ... I can hear my grandmother say , ' Whoever heard of such ? ' " -- B.H. <p> " Oh , that 's Richard Hart , " says Marcus , the pastry chef on FX 's " The Bear " portrayed by Lionel Boyce , when a colleague asks him about a picture taped to his workstation for inspiration . This is n't TV fiction : Hart was a chef in London , where he was born , before moving to the Bay Area and falling in love with bread baking . His job as the lead baker at Tartine led to opening Hart Bargeri in Copenhagen with Rene Redzepi ( with a bakery called Green Rhino soon to open in Mexico City ) . What makes this book different from others on bread baking , as Hart addresses immediately in the introduction , is that he 's " more of a sensualist than a scientist . " So while there can be no circumnavigating the necessary sourdough starters , the weighing of ingredients and the precision of recipes , something of Hart 's famous ebullience translates on the page . He is the guide who urges you to mix dough by hand , to inhale the aromas of bread through every step . And he is n't precious or limited about variations . He includes a cheese loaf inspired by his time baking at Wild Flour Bread in Freestone , Calif. -- the kind of indulgence , filled with pockets of cheddar and smoked Gouda , designed to be consumed whole before it even cools . -- B.A. <p> The comforting sopa de res , savory panes con pollo and other Salvadoran dishes featured in " The SalviSoul Cookbook " will entice any reader and likely raise childhood memories for those who are part of the Salvadoran diaspora . Vasquez 's cookbook , which debuted this spring , is the first Salvadoran cookbook to appear on a Big Five imprint . " SalviSoul " features 80 defining Salvadoran recipes -- with allowances for modifications , as many Salvadoran cooks in the U.S. for decades have had to resort to alternative ingredients -- and shares the compelling stories of the matriarchs behind them . For instance , there 's a recipe for rellenos de papa from Patricia De La Torre , a woman who feels that the L.A. earthquake she experienced on the day she met her future husband may actually have been a warning for the turbulent relationship to come . In an April interview with The Times , Vasquez said that writing a cookbook with stories was important to her because that 's how she came to understand her own Salvadoran upbringing . -- Cindy Carcamo <p> If you 're familiar with the menu at Crown Heights restaurant Agi 's Counter , then you know chef Jeremy Salamon spins fresh takes on Jewish and Eastern European classics such as palacsinta ( warm buttered crepes rolled with whipped farmers cheese ) , chicken liver mousse ( the secret ingredient is cream cheese ) and fluffy semolina dumplings showered with dill . In his first cookbook , Salamon says he 's layering his " cheffy instincts over centuries of traditions . ... I 'm reimagining those traditions with an eye toward seasonality , market ingredients and a touch of millennial flair . " That flair shows up in borscht fragrant with chamomile vinegar and bay leaves ; Persian cucumbers slathered with buttermilk ranch and grated horseradish ; and squash blossoms stuffed with k ? r ? z ? tt , also known as Hungarian pimento cheese . Two chapters are devoted to dessert -- one entirely for cakes . I 'm all in on pancake torte. -- B.H. <p> Given Sicily 's history , its cookies , cakes and pastries are some of the widest-ranging in flavor and provenance : the byproduct of an island visited and conquered by the Greeks , Phoenicians , Normans , Spaniards , Romans , Goths and more . Victoria Granof has spent years as a pastry chef , food stylist and semiprofessional Sicilian-sweets historian , uncovering her own heritage through this region 's worldly baked goods . In her latest she covers all manner of the varied treats found there , and in one of the most stylish releases of the year : Baskets brim with marzipan shaped into cherries and just-ripe oranges ; little almond cookies flavored with cherries , rose , saffron , lemon and ginger lie daintily on vintage dishes and lace doilies ; hands dunk sweet buns into bowls of cream and rip open fluffy doughnuts spilling with ricotta . But Granof 's " Sicily , My Sweet " is n't just aesthetically pleasing . The author delves into the traditions and superstitions of these items , and also provides guidance on building a Sicilian pantry , measuring by the eye and the hand ( as my own Italian American grandmother tended to do ) , and even how to make your own sambuca to wash it all down . -- S.B. <p> The creativity abounds in Matty Matheson 's latest , an ode to the simpler pleasures in life : soups , salads and sandwiches . In the third cookbook by the Canadian chef , internet personality and " The Bear " producer and actor , all three culinary subsets get some inspired -- and sometimes flat-out strange -- upgrades , like a single giant meatball floating in a tomato-y stew or a grilled cheese sandwich that oozes not only dairy but squash and bee pollen . There 's a shrimp burger , corn-and-maple soup and a fried-fish sandwich that gets ladled with clam chowder , but there are also straightforward classics of the three genres : gumbo , a wedge , a cheesesteak , a McRib riff , larb , crab congee and more . While I cooked my way through a few recipes I found some alterations were necessary , namely to my own tastes , but that 's by and large the crux of this cookbook : Matheson wants readers and home cooks to have fun with it , get weird and not take anything too seriously . That 's the joy of " Soups , Salads , Sandwiches " and what everyone 's favorite loud , tatted and endearingly chaotic chef calls " freewheeling cooking . " -- S.B. <p> L.A.-based Owen Han , creator of spectacularly successful sandwich content , wrote his first book , and it 's highly cookable . Yes , it 's all sandwiches -- who does n't love them ? -- that means his very broad definition ( some would argue too broad ) of what constitutes a sandwich ( tacos ? ) ends up serving many readers well . There are more recipes than you might expect . One highlight is his Italian nonna 's recipe for meatballs . I like her meatball-making method : Use bread soaked in milk instead of breadcrumbs , and poach them directly in the tomato sauce rather than pan-frying first . They turn out incredibly tender and flavorful . It 's the recipe that sold me on this book , whether you put them in a sandwich or not ( I have some in the freezer ready for spaghetti ) . I 've cooked other components for sandwiches ( the chile-marinated chicken for his O.G . Chicken Sandwich , for example ) , and even sans bread , they can be the start of an approachable weeknight dinner -- or , of course , the makings of your next favorite sandwich . -- B.H. <p> Wafu translates to " Japanese style " ; when it comes to cooking , that means hybrid dishes from other cuisines prepared with Japanese ingredients , flavors or techniques . Los Angeles-based cook and writer Sonoko Sakai delves into the transmutable character of this kind of fusion . Curry , croquettes , even ramen are national dishes that are the result of cultural intermingling . Sakai creates her own wafu recipes , including dashi cheese grits with miso honey butter , Japanese Italian wedding soup ( she adds soy sauce and sake to her meatballs ) , Caesar salad with aonori croutons and bonito flakes , eggplant katsu curry , fish and lotus chips with wasabi tartar sauce , and balsamic shio koji chicken . They reflect a foundation in Japanese cuisine , matched with international influences and her passion for California 's bounty -- citrus , persimmons , avocados , chiles and greens among them . Fresh and fun . -- B.H. <p> From a diverse collection of chefs , restaurateurs , journalists , farmers and food professionals , " When Southern Women Cook " explores the challenges and triumphs of the women who feed the American South . History is woven through recipes for North Carolina cheese biscuits and Texas breakfast tacos , while humor and cultural criticism find their way into hash browns that recall the version served at Waffle House restaurants . Dishes such as grilled ramps and gobi Manchurian remind readers of the culinary traditions that existed long before cuisine categorizations , as well as the international influences that are apparent in Southern cooking thanks to generations of migration and movement . Recipe instructions are clear and straightforward , allowing home chefs of any level to conquer Southern staples such as pimento cheese , fried catfish or fresh peach pie . -- D.D . <p> Adrienne Borlongan 's cookbook is like a textbook , with every morsel of information one might need to understand the science behind ice cream . Using her background in food science , the Wanderlust ice cream shop founder explains what it is and exactly why it tastes so good , then introduces you to flavors from all over the world . The salted kaya toast ice cream marries a custard made with pandan leaf and salted duck egg yolks with slices of milk bread to mimic the popular breakfast in Singapore . Kinako and Kyoho grape jelly is Borlongan 's answer to American peanut butter and jelly , with the malty , nutty tastes of roasted soybean flour and fruit jelly . By the end of the book I was inspired to create my own flavors based on my travels . But then I remembered how good the ube malted crunch is and made another batch of that instead . -- J.H. <p> Michael Zee -- the cookbook author behind the wildly popular Instagram account @symmetrybreakfast -- grew up in his Shanghainese grandfather 's Chinese restaurants in Liverpool , England . When he moved to China in 2017 , Zee set out to explore the craft of making breakfast , the most accessible meal of the day , all over the country . Recipes include morning soup , buns , noodles and dumplings in spectacular variety -- Jjidan hanbao pancakes stuffed with egg and pork and sprinkled with white pepper , fluffy Xinbonese bread , creamy Yunnan rice pudding . " If we consider the country a vast tapestry of flavor , texture and processes , " Zee writes , " then the meal of breakfast is an elemental thread in a story that is still being woven . " There 's no other book about Chinese food like this one . -- B.H. <p> Fans of Zaytinya have been waiting more than two decades for a cookbook . This year , Jos ? Andr ? s finally gave it to them . The celebrity chef 's celebrated , D.C.-founded restaurant pulls recipes and inspiration from the Middle East and the Mediterranean , and is famed for its mezze and grilled meats -- sometimes prepared traditionally , sometimes with haute flair . In the " Zaytinya " cookbook , Andr ? s and the restaurant 's chef Michael Costa deliver most of the signature items along with the stories behind them , and build your pantry from the ground up , with recipes for Lebanese seven spice , Yemeni seasoning blends , preserved lemons , harissa chile crisp and more . Then , of course , comes the rainbow of mezze , the array of stuffed vegetables , the bevy of hearty large-format meat dishes and the after-dinner sweets such as olive oil cake and Turkish ice cream . But it 's also a celebration of the region : Andr ? s pays equal homage to Lebanon , Turkey and Greece , even titling some items in multiple languages and providing cross-cultural context , a nod to ubiquity and cultural ties . " The meaning to me of culture is not something exclusive , but something inclusive , " he told The Times this year . " It 's not something that only belongs to you , but belongs to everybody . Culture to me is the perfect synonym for longer tables , for sharing . " -- S.B. <p> Betty Hallock is deputy Food editor at the Los Angeles Times . She has co-written four cookbooks , including " B ? co : Vivid Recipes from the Heart of Los Angeles , " " Am ? : A Modern Tex-Mex Kitchen " and " Baking at R ? publique . " She started her journalism career at the Wall Street Journal and Scientific American in New York , worked on the L.A. Times ' Business desk , and was interim food editor at Los Angeles Magazine . Hallock also helped launch a food and nutrition vertical for wellness app RoundGlass . She 's a graduate of UCLA and New York University . <p> Stephanie Breijo is a reporter for the Food section and the author of its weekly news column . Previously , she served as the restaurants and bars editor for Time Out Los Angeles , and prior to that , the award-winning food editor of Richmond magazine in Richmond , Va . Born and primarily raised in Los Angeles , she believes L.A. to be the finest food city in the country and might be biased on that count but does n't believe she 's wrong . <p> Danielle Dorsey is the assistant editor and writer of guides for the Food section . Previously , she was the senior West Coast editor at Thrillist , where she covered food , drink and travel across the California region . She grew up across San Diego and Riverside and has happily called Los Angeles home for more than 15 years . <p> Bill Addison is the restaurant critic of the Los Angeles Times . He is recipient of the 2023 Craig Claiborne Distinguished Restaurant Review Award from the James Beard Foundation , among numerous other accolades . Addison was previously national critic for Eater and held food critic positions at the San Francisco Chronicle , the Dallas Morning News and Atlanta magazine . <p> Sarah Mosqueda covers Orange County food , art and culture for TimesOC . She most recently worked as a staff writer in Food for the Los Angeles Times . She also has several years of experience in the restaurant industry , including as a proprietor . Mosqueda earned a bachelor 's degree in communications from Cal State Fullerton . <p> Cindy Carcamo is a staff writer in Food for the Los Angeles Times . She most recently covered immigration issues as a Metro reporter and , before that , served as Arizona bureau chief and national correspondent in the Southwest . A Los Angeles native , she has reported in Argentina , Guatemala , Honduras and Mexico , and is a former staff writer at the Orange County Register .
