<p> In anticipation of more hostility toward abortion under President-elect Donald Trump 's administration , California lawmakers announced two new pieces of legislation Monday aimed at protecting medication abortion and punishing local governments that interfere with access to reproductive health care . <p> California Attorney General Rob Bonta announced the bills at a press conference , saying Californians are in an " urgent and dangerous situation " with Trump returning to office and Republicans soon controlling both chambers in Congress . <p> One of the legislative proposals , the Medication Abortion Access bill , seeks to ensure that medication abortion ? a two-pill regimen of mifepristone and misoprostol ? is protected and available everywhere in California , including in its so-called health care deserts where medical providers are harder to come by . <p> " Rights do n't really do us any good if we ca n't access them , " said Assemblymember-elect Maggy Krell , who co-authored the bill with Majority Leader Cecilia Aguiar-Curry . The goal of the bill is to ensure that medication abortion ? the most common way of terminating a pregnancy ? is " not just a constitutional right that lives in a constitutional document on paper , " she said . <p> California Attorney General Rob Bonta speaks at a news conference in front of the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco on Nov. 7. via Associated Press <p> The legislation " will ensure that patients and providers have access to what they need , to mifepristone , to misoprostol , and protect the transportation , the mailing , the supplying of everything that would be needed for a medication abortion , " Krell continued at Monday 's press conference . <p> The full text of the bill and its strategies have not yet been released . <p> The legislation comes as reproductive rights advocates warn that Trump could invoke the the Comstock Act ? a 150-year-old law that criminalizes sending " obscene " materials in the mail , including anything " intended for producing abortion " ? to ban medication abortion , which has become a crucial access point since the fall of Roe v. Wade in 2022 . <p> After months of pressure for him to clarify his stance , Trump said on the campaign trail that he would n't enforce the Comstock Act . But critics are skeptical of such a promise given that many of his allies , including Vice President-elect JD Vance , have advocated for using it to crack down on medication abortion . <p> The other California legislation announced Monday would broaden Bonta 's powers to enforce the Reproductive Privacy Act , an existing statute banning the state from interfering in a patient 's decision to access abortion . If passed , Bonta would be able to slap those who violate it with financial penalties . <p> " This is not a hypothetical , " Bonta said Monday , saying city officials in Beverly Hills illegally colluded earlier this year to stop an abortion clinic from opening there . <p> " We were able to prevent Beverly Hills from taking this type of action again , but we were n't able to seek financial penalties that would in turn further disincentivize government actors from violating the law , " Bonta said . <p> The bills ' announcement comes the same day California Gov . Gavin Newsom convened a special session on Trump-proofing some of the state 's laws . He plans to ask the legislature to approve additional funding to Bonta 's office in preparation with legal fights with the Trump administration . <p> " We 're not going to be caught flat-footed , " Newsom said at a press conference earlier this month . " We want to be prepared as early as Jan. 20 . " <p> Speaking Monday , Bonta said it 's California 's duty to inspire every state to its east . <p> " At times in this nation , when people 's rights and freedoms are under attack , when they 're at risk ? as is so often the case ? people look west across this country , " he said . " They look west to California to see what the largest state in the nation , the fifth-largest economy in the world , the most diverse state in the nation , is doing . And here 's what they 'll see . " <p> He noted that his office sued the previous Trump administration more than 120 times and won a supermajority of those cases . <p> Minnesota Republicans filed a lawsuit Monday to try to force a rerun of a state House race where the incumbent Democrat won by 14 votes -- but in which investigators concluded that election workers probably destroyed 20 valid absentee ballots after failing to count them . It 's a race that could determine the balance of power in the Minnesota House , where leaders from both parties are working out the details of a power-sharing agreement that currently presumes a 67-67 tie when the Legislature convenes next month . A Republican victory in a special election could shift that balance to a two-vote , 68-66 GOP majority . <p> Nine people were killed in Israeli strikes on villages in southern Lebanon Monday , after Israel said it was taking aim at dozens of Hezbollah targets in retaliation for an attack claimed by the militant group amid a fragile ceasefire . Lebanon 's health ministry said the strikes killed five people and wounded two in the village of Haris " in an initial toll " , while in the village of Tallous , another four people were killed and one wounded . <p> Months after running an internal pressure campaign that nudged President Joe Biden out of the 2024 election , former House Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D-CA ) is plotting another ouster within the Democratic Party . The representative for California 's 11th congressional district -- who stepped down as Leader of the House Democratic Caucus last year after two decades -- is targeting the top member of her party on the Judiciary Committee , Rep. Jerry Nadler ( D-NY ) , the New York Times reported . Pelosi is among a gro <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> MANILA ( Reuters ) -President Ferdinand Marcos Jr . said on Monday the presence of a Russian attack submarine in the Philippines ' exclusive economic zone ( EEZ ) in the South China Sea was " very worrisome " . A Russian Kilo-class submarine was sighted 80 nautical miles off the western province of Occidental Mindoro on Nov. 28 , Navy spokesperson Roy Vincent Trinidad said in a statement on Monday , confirming a report by the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper . <p> President-elect Donald Trump 's stunning announcement that he will nominate Kash Patel as FBI director sets the stage for a fresh round of turbulence at a law enforcement agency tasked with protecting the homeland and investigating federal crimes . Patel , a steadfast Trump ally with plans to shake up the bureau , is a study in contrasts from the current tight-lipped director , Christopher Wray , who preaches a " keep calm and tackle hard " mantra . In selecting Patel late Saturday over more conventional contenders , the incoming Republican president is again testing the loyalty of Senate Republicans and their willingness to defy him . <p> Malaysia has urged Chinese companies to refrain from using it as a base to " rebadge " products to avoid U.S. tariffs , its deputy trade minister said on Monday , amid increasing export restrictions and concerns of a U.S.-China trade war . Washington is expected to further curb exports to Chinese semiconductor toolmakers and sales of certain chipmaking equipment , including products manufactured in Malaysia , Singapore and Taiwan , sources have told Reuters . Malaysia is a major player in the semiconductor industry , accounting for 13% of global testing and packaging , and is seen as well placed to grab further business in the sector as Chinese chip firms diversify overseas for assembling needs . <p> President Joe Biden pardoned his son , Hunter , on Sunday just days before he was scheduled to be sentenced in separate federal gun and tax cases -- marking an about face for the lame-duck president . " From the day I took office , I said I would not interfere with the Justice Department 's decision-making , and I kept my word even as I have watched my son being selectively , and unfairly , prosecuted , " Biden said in a statement . The president accused his " political opponents in Congress " of pursuing the pr <p> Just in , a hot take from everyone 's least favorite senator on the nomination of Kash Patel as incoming FBI chief . Speaking with CBS 's Face The Nation on Sunday , Republican Sen. Ted Cruz ( R-TX ) told host Major Garett that criticism of Patel 's perceived lack of qualifications for the post has come only from commentators alarmed at the prospect of a " real reformer " heading up the agency . " I got ta say , all of the weeping and gnashing of teeth , people pulling their hair out , are the people dismayed a <p> Once presenting itself as one of the world 's most welcoming countries to refugees and immigrants , Canada is launching a global online ad campaign cautioning asylum-seekers that making a claim is hard . The C$250,000 ( $178,662 ) in advertisements will run through March in 11 languages , including Spanish , Urdu , Ukrainian , Hindi and Tamil , the immigration department told Reuters . Search queries such as " how to claim asylum in Canada " and " refugee Canada " will prompt sponsored content titled " Canada 's asylum system -- Asylum Facts , " the ministry said .
