<h> Since Oct. 7 , it 's become almost trendy to oust Israeli artists . Recognizing that , Azout 's work gradually became intertwined with an existential purpose . <p> By JENNA ROMANO DECEMBER 2 , 2024 03:40 <p> MICHELLE AZOUT ( photo credit : Carlos Aristizabal ) <p> Earlier this year , Michelle Azout , a Miami-based art adviser , received an encrypted text message from a colleague , Israeli painter Guy Yanai . It read , " You 're in good company " and included a screenshot -- but Azout had no idea what Yanai was referring to . <p> For a moment , Azout thought it was a good thing . " I expected something good , like a mention in an article . " But to her dismay , the text reopened a new wound -- one that she 's getting used to as a supporter of Israel and a professional in the international art world . " When I opened it , it was a punch to the stomach , " says Azout . " I found a screenshot of an iPhone note titled ' Zionists in the Arts . ' This was evidently a blacklist created by a group of New York and Los Angeles artists in an Instagram chatroom in order to launch a boycott of arts professionals perceived as supporters of Israel , " she explains . <p> " Amid a slew of names ranging from owners of blue-chip galleries to artists , curators , and journalists ( all but one of them Jewish ) , I was shocked to see my name . " <p> The goal of the blacklist , according to the screenshots , was to take the " power " back from the " Zionists , " stop them from " manipulating " the art market and from having so much " control " over the artists ' careers . Visitors view Homeland ( credit : Zina Perlman ) <p> " The creators wrote of how infuriating it was to be ' silenced and bullied by the Zionists ' and how by building , maintaining , and adding to the list , they would be able to ' take money out of these Zionists ' pockets , ' " Azout describes . <p> " More shocking , many of the artists that participated in the creation of this list are represented by major New York and Los Angeles galleries . " <p> The letter on the well-respected art publication stated its intent was to show " support for Palestinian liberation and call for an end to the killing and harming of all civilians , an immediate ceasefire , the passage of humanitarian aid into Gaza , and the end of the complicity of our governing bodies in grave human rights violations and war crimes . " <p> It goes on to rebuke Israel and Zionism for its " war crimes , " with no mention of the heinous attack that had just occurred . <p> " Many art professionals have been vocal about pro-Palestinian support , attempting to oust Israeli artists not only from galleries but from conversations around it , too , " says Azout . <p> " While seeing my name on the list immediately produced a visceral reaction , I was not completely surprised . Ever since Oct.7. , I have been very vocal ( on and off line ) about my support for Israel and my concern for the hostages in Gaza . " <p> For the art adviser , it 's not only a disappointment because of the palpable tension felt personally and professionally -- in principle , it 's antithetical to her democratized philosophy when it comes to sharing art . <p> Her goal as an art adviser is creating bridges , and she sees art as a means for sharing ideas and values , cherishing the opportunity to have real conversations about important world topics . <p> How is it possible for Israelis to have a voice when they 're being so vigorously silenced ? <p> " These are the individuals who have real-life experience in the region and can offer different perspectives on Israeli culture , " says Azout . <p> As Azout found herself reckoning with a cultural war in the art world , she reflected even more on her deep-rooted connection to Zionism . " The resilience of Israeli people to keep going forward is very admirable , " she says . <p> " I decided to stay on my course , put blinders on , and do good where I can instead of trying to battle others . The way I see it , the closer we can get to people living in Israel , the better we can develop these relationships , collaborations , and dialogue . We live in a globalized world , and there 's so much potential to connect and communicate . " <h> Enter : The ' Homeland ' exhibition <p> Recognizing that , more than ever there was a more important need to support Israeli art , Azout 's work gradually became intertwined with an existential purpose . <p> Instead of losing her professional ground , she pivoted -- this time , with her eyes on the Israeli art world . Azout has been an avid collector of Israeli artwork herself , but it was at this moment that she decided , as an art adviser in Miami , to bring it deeper into her advisory practice . <p> Her recent undertaking , an exhibition titled " Homeland , " is evidence of that in a big , culminating way . <p> The show , which ran from November 14-17 in Miami , had three main goals : to support Israeli artists financially ( and emotionally ) ; to foster a renaissance of Zionism by bringing Israeli artworks to Miami ; and to battle anti-Zionism and antisemitism . <p> Featuring more than 120 works -- all by Israeli artists -- " Homeland " was a huge success on all these fronts . That 's thanks to Azout dedicating over six months to its production , alongside a passionate team of community members , volunteers , and sponsors . <p> " I started working on the concept for the show before the blacklist came out ; but for me , it was a sort of poetic justice to persevere once that happened , " Azout explains . <p> For Azout , who had never curated an exhibition before , it all started with supporting one particular Israeli artist , Esther Cohen . <p> " I bought a work by Cohen for my birthday . She is an Israeli artist I admire , and I told her how much I love this piece and that so many people have commented on it , " she recalls . <p> " She shared with me what a hard time she was having both mentally and economically . To be an artist during a wartime economy was debilitating and not sustainable . She and I kept in touch , and an idea started to brew in the back of my mind : an exhibition to celebrate Israeli artists . " <p> Azout started working on the concept -- planning , fundraising , and building a support team . At the time , she envisioned her exhibition as a modest show featuring around 15 works . She assumed it would be impactful , but modest , and held in a small gallery space . But when man -- even the meticulous Azout -- plans , God laughs . <p> " A colleague who wanted to be involved said she had the perfect space , which was essentially a large warehouse . " <p> Azout knew this was a great opportunity -- bigger than her initial dream but perfect for the potential of the show . Of course , that presented her with a curatorial challenge . " Everything I did for the show had to be high quality , and when I saw the space , I knew what it would take to fill that room . I knew it would need to be around 100 artworks . " <p> Azout did n't stop the momentum , she embraced it . And one of the most heartwarming parts of this story is that she was n't alone . This was a chance to leverage a concrete sense of support from her colleagues around the world , which is natural for an adept networker like Azout . <p> " In planning the exhibition , I reconnected with artists whom I had worked with in the past , and I developed new relationships with artists that I only met due to the war , " she says . <p> She pulled all her resources , reaching out to Israeli artists in her network and gaining support from local professionals in the Israeli art scene . <p> For example , Sarah Peguine and Michal Freedman , founders of Art Source , an online platform for promoting and collecting Israeli art , became one significant source for connecting Azout with new participants . <h> This month , ' Homeland ' was presented to Miami <p> The exhibition is a visual homage to the Land of Israel through a wide range of media , such as painting , prints , photography , digital art , sculpture , and textiles . <p> Not only did " Homeland " bring together over 40 contemporary and historic Israeli artists , it also offered a profound exploration of their relationship to the land -- a topic that reflects multifaceted realities and perspectives but is nearly void in conversations happening in the international art world today . <p> Curating an exhibition that would facilitate a strong dialogue with the Miami community was important to Azout . <p> " I 'm for art that people can understand , and I like breaking boundaries , " she says . " We wanted the show to have a very focused curatorial lens . That lens was going to be the landscape of Israel , but we wanted to push boundaries of what a landscape could look like . " <p> The works exhibited in " Homeland " explore the landscape of Israel in all its contrasts , spanning multiple generations : ancient and modern , urban and rural , desert , and sea . <p> Visitors encountered works by Miriam Cabessa , who won the Israeli Culture Ministry 's Lifetime Achievement Award ; collaborative pieces by the dynamic duo Nitzan Mintz and Dede Bandaid , known for their distinctive street art ; as well as rising stars of the Israeli art scene , such as Hagai Farago , Iris Cintra , and Ronen Tanchum . <p> Complementing contemporary works were pieces by renowned historic artists , such as Menashe Kadishman , Liliane Klapisch , and Rudi Weissenstein . Each participating artist has played a pivotal role in shaping Israel 's artistic identity -- today and over previous decades . <p> From a numbers perspective , the show was an astounding success . In the end , Azout had no problem filling the walls or the halls of her venue . Hundreds of people , many from Azout 's diverse South Florida community , showed up to support the show on its opening night . <p> Between a discrete online pre-sale and three days of the show , over half of the artworks on display sold by the end of the exhibition . <p> " Commercially , we 're very happy with that , " says Azout . " I think it was a great surprise to see people 's enthusiasm sales-wise . It was successful , and we 're still selling work online . " <p> " Homeland , " of course , showed its support for Israeli artists in more ways than sales . <p> Hagai Farago , a printmaker in Tel Aviv , sheds light on the importance of an exhibition like this being organized abroad , saying that " taking part in the ' Homeland ' exhibition is a much-needed source of optimism in today 's bleak climate . <p> " When numerous voices act to delegitimize Israeli artists instead of seeking the dialogue and cure that can be found in art , this initiative truly sets new foundations for the exchange of experiences and sentiments , " he says . " And it might be , after all , a very Jewish thing : fostering new collaborations and finding true allies , even in the most challenging of times . " <p> It was an equally important and unifying event for the community in Miami , too . " I think the impact on our community was remarkable , " Azout reflects . " We brought together a group of individuals from different parts of the Miami community -- older , younger , religious , secular , Jewish , not Jewish . The crowd was large and diverse . " <p> At a time when we 're caught in endlessly depressing new cycles and social media feeds full of depressing images of Israel , what a bold and poignant idea to ( in Azout 's words ) foster a renaissance in the dialogue surrounding Zionism . " This exhibition reflects the powerful role that art plays in expressing our shared values -- rooted in history , but ever-evolving with contemporary voices . " <p> As we wrapped up our conversation in the days following the finale of " Homeland , " Azout expressed excitement over receiving photos from a couple who had purchased works from the show . <p> She was impressed that in less than 24 hours after picking up their new Israeli art , they already had it framed and hung on the wall . And I must admit , I myself got chills thinking about the 65+ Israeli artworks that were about to be displayed in their new homes . <p> A lot of people ( myself included ) are asking Azout what will come next in this chapter of her career . Many are already inquiring about her next Israeli art exhibition abroad or wondering if " Homeland " itself will travel . She does n't have those answers just yet . <p> But when she and I shared a smile over a collector hanging on his wall his very first artwork made in Israel , about Israel , by an Israeli artist , I thought : " What comes next is the new life cycle of this artwork -- the people who will see it , the questions that will be raised , the conversations that will be had . " In a big way , what comes next is new encounters with the Land of Israel . <p> " It 's been the honor of my career to work on this project and to be the gatekeeper and facilitator of this , " Azout tells me before we part . " I think it 's really unique to work on something that has to do with your profession but also your life . <p> " We are a global community , and it was very special to be able to be the engine behind pushing all of it and have a synergy between people in Israel and the community in the Diaspora . " <p> While " Homeland " closed on November 17 , sales continue online through its website until the end of December . www.homelandartshow.com
