<p> The Israeli military said Monday that Omer Neutra , a dual American Israeli citizen who was serving in the Israeli Defense Forces during Hamas ' attack on Oct. 7 , 2023 , died that day . <p> The 21-year-old was previously thought to have been taken hostage , sparking hope he might one day come home alive along with the roughly 100 other people believed to still be in Hamas ' captivity . <p> It 's unclear why the Israeli military refrained from clarifying that Neutra was deceased until today , with Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz writing on social media that Neutra " fell in a heroic battle " on Oct. 7 . <p> Neutra 's parents , Ronen and Orna Neutra , told CNN last week they 'd hoped the ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon might lead to progress on a similar agreement with Hamas and the release of their son . <p> " We have seen that attention both in Israel and around the world was taken from the war in Gaza to the war in Lebanon in the last four or five months , and that was a concern to us , " Ronen Neutra said . " But at the same time , we are disappointed that it was not combined with a hostage deal , which is really the most urgent element right now . We consider it a missed opportunity . " <p> An image of Omer Neutra hangs on a gate in Krakow , Poland , on Jan. 1 , 2024 . NurPhoto via Getty Images <p> The two also visited President Joe Biden at the White House less than a month ago , where presumably they made a similar plea . <p> Biden paid tribute to Omer Neutra , a Long Island native , in a statement Monday , saying he and first lady Jill Biden were " devastated and outraged " to learn of Neutra 's death . <p> " Less than a month ago , Omer 's mother and father joined me at the White House to share the pain they 've endured as they prayed for the safe return of their son -- pain no parent should ever know , " Biden said . " They told me how Omer 's grandparents were Holocaust survivors and how their family 's strength and resilience has been carried through the generations . " <p> " During this dark hour -- as our nation joins Omer 's parents , brother , and family in grieving this tragic loss -- we pray to find strength and resilience , " he continued . " And to all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong . " <h> Latest stories <p> A disturbing video showing American-Israeli hostage Edan Alexander was released Saturday night by Hamas . In the heavily edited propaganda video , Alexander , 20 , pleads for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President-elect Donald Trump to free him and the other 100 hostages held by Hamas . " The fear is at its peak , and we are dying a thousand times every day that passes , and no one ... <p> Hamas said on Monday that 33 hostages in Gaza had been killed during the almost 14-month-old war between the Palestinian militant group and Israel in the enclave , without giving their nationalities . Hamas added that other hostages had gone missing . Hamas shortly afterward published a video it said detailed when and how the hostages had been killed , blaming Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for their fate . <p> President-elect Trump on Monday threatened to unleash " hell " in the Middle East if hostages held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip are not released before his inauguration Jan. 20 , underscoring urgency to President Biden 's efforts to secure a hostage release and ceasefire deal in his final months in office . In a post on his social ... <p> Paris stocks wobbled and the euro fell Monday as a budget standoff in France fueled concern about the eurozone 's second-biggest economy.Paris stocks , which wobbled in afternoon trading , ended the day flat . <p> Once presenting itself as one of the world 's most welcoming countries to refugees and immigrants , Canada is launching a global online ad campaign cautioning asylum-seekers that making a claim is hard . The C$250,000 ( $178,662 ) in advertisements will run through March in 11 languages , including Spanish , Urdu , Ukrainian , Hindi and Tamil , the immigration department told Reuters . Search queries such as " how to claim asylum in Canada " and " refugee Canada " will prompt sponsored content titled " Canada 's asylum system -- Asylum Facts , " the ministry said . <p> MANILA ( Reuters ) -President Ferdinand Marcos Jr . said on Monday the presence of a Russian attack submarine in the Philippines ' exclusive economic zone ( EEZ ) in the South China Sea was " very worrisome " . A Russian Kilo-class submarine was sighted 80 nautical miles off the western province of Occidental Mindoro on Nov. 28 , Navy spokesperson Roy Vincent Trinidad said in a statement on Monday , confirming a report by the Philippine Daily Inquirer newspaper . <p> Fears of a global trade war are growing as Donald Trump intensifies his rhetoric against the BRICS nations -- Brazil , Russia , India , China , and South Africa -- along with newly joined members like Iran , Saudi Arabia , and the UAE . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> Months after running an internal pressure campaign that nudged President Joe Biden out of the 2024 election , former House Leader Nancy Pelosi ( D-CA ) is plotting another ouster within the Democratic Party . The representative for California 's 11th congressional district -- who stepped down as Leader of the House Democratic Caucus last year after two decades -- is targeting the top member of her party on the Judiciary Committee , Rep. Jerry Nadler ( D-NY ) , the New York Times reported . Pelosi is among a gro <p> President-elect Donald Trump has opted to keep it in the family again with some of his latest administrative picks-- this time , with the senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . Trump has appointed Lebanon billionaire Massad Boulos to take on the role . His son , Michael , is married to Tiffany Trump , the president 's youngest daughter . " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote o
