<p> President-elect Donald Trump announced Sunday that he intends to nominate Massad Boulos , a billionaire businessman from Lebanon who is also father-in-law to Tiffany Trump , to serve as senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . <p> Trump announced Boulos as his pick for the advisory position in a post shared to his social media platform Truth Social on Sunday . <p> " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote . " He has been a longtime proponent of Republican and Conservative values , an asset to my Campaign , and was instrumental in building tremendous new coalitions with the Arab American Community . " <p> His post went on to describe Boulos as " a dealmaker , and an unwavering supporter of PEACE in the Middle East , " who " will be a strong advocate for the United States , and its interests . " <p> The selection comes as Trump and Vice President-elect JD Vance continue their transition into the White House ahead of January 's inauguration . Boulos will likely play a role in how Trump approaches Israel 's ongoing war with Hamas in Gaza , which has triggered conflicts with Lebanon and Iran while threatening to spread more widely throughout the region . The Biden White House announced last week that it had helped broker a ceasefire deal between Israel and the Iran-backed group Hezbollah in Lebanon , although both Israel and Hezbollah have accused the other of violating the agreement . Negotiations for a similar deal with Hamas have long been stalled . <p> Boulos already helped spearhead the Trump campaign 's outreach efforts in Arab American communities in the U.S. this year , organizing meetings in Michigan and other states . He is also the second Trump in-law picked to serve in a leadership role in his next administration . <p> In another Truth Social post shared on Saturday , the president-elect announced Charles Kushner , whose son Jared Kushner is married to Trump 's daughter Ivanka Trump , was his choice for ambassador to France . Jared Kushner served as a senior adviser to Trump during his first term . <p> On Truth Social , Trump called Charles Kushner " a tremendous business leader , philanthropist , &amp; dealmaker , who will be a strong advocate representing our Country &amp; interests . " Trump pardoned Kushner in 2020 after he pleaded guilty years earlier to tax evasion and making illegal campaign donations . <p> Emily Mae Czachor is a reporter and news editor at CBSNews.com . She covers breaking news , often focusing on crime and extreme weather . Emily Mae has previously written for outlets including the Los Angeles Times , BuzzFeed and Newsweek.
