<h> As CEOs cut back on DEI and tell young workers to leave their politics at home , charitable giving , with an employer match , has emerged as a way for employees to bring their own values to work . <p> President-elect Donald Trump and his appointees are promising a war against woke , with employer diversity , equity and inclusion ( DEI ) efforts among their targets . At the same time , with job openings down nearly 40% from their 2022 peak , even unhappy employees are less likely to quit . So it 's no surprise that CEOs , who a few years ago embraced social justice in part to appease young subordinates , are now curtailing DEI programs , staying mum about causes , and demanding employees , too , keep their political views out of the workplace . Just last week , Walmart , the nation 's largest private employer , confirmed it was rolling back its DEI efforts . <p> But there 's a notable exception to this retreat : charitable giving . In recent years , even as contributions to the United Way have declined , a new type of giving platform has spread that empowers workers to pick their own charitable causes -- usually with an employer match . <p> " Everyone is looking for a way to keep all these young employees who now expect their employers to speak out happy , while not putting their organization at legal risk , " says Alison Taylor , a professor of corporate responsibility and business ethics at New York University 's Stern School of Business . " There is this overwhelming sense of caution among senior leaders and C-suite executives about not pissing anyone else off . " <p> In that context , she adds , " The pivot to giving employees more control over their donations is sensible . " <p> It 's also a way to accommodate Gen-Z and younger Millennials moved by the human suffering they see on social media and in the news , particularly in places like Gaza . <p> The dominant player in the giving platform space is Alberta , Calgary-based fintech Benevity , which in 2023 processed $3.2 billion of donations to 265,000 unique causes , from workers at such companies as Adobe , Cisco , Merck , Microsoft , Nike , UPS and Visa . ( That total , which was up 14% and is on track to grow again this year by double digits , includes employer matches of workers ' donations . While Benevity has multinational and non-U.S . companies as clients , 84% of 2023 contributions went to U.S. charities . ) <p> At our request , Jules Dorval , the social data science lead at Benevity , also drilled down on giving by young workers at the subset of 62 companies for which it has data on donors ' age . During the same two year period , the top recipients of money from workers under 30 skewed more heavily to relief groups , particularly international ones . Palestine Red Crescent Society-Al Bireh Branch ( serving both Gaza and the West Bank ) was No. 1 , Islamic Relief No. 3 , and Palestine Children 's Relief Fund No. 6 , compared to Nos. 11 , 14 and 17 , respectively , for workers of all ages at those same 62 companies . Rounding out the top 10 for under 30 givers : World Central Kitchen ( 2 ) , UNICEF ( 4 ) , Red Cross ( 5 ) , St. Jude 's ( 7 ) , Mercy Corps ( 8 ) , Doctors Without Borders ( 9 ) and Save The Children Federation ( 10 ) . <p> Medical Aid for Palestinians , a British non-profit providing healthcare services in Gaza and the West Bank , was the 11th most-donated-to charity for employees aged 30 or younger giving through Benevity , though it did n't break the top 200 charities for all workers . <p> New York City-based American Friends of Magen David Adom , which acts as Israel 's representative to the International Red Cross and provides disaster relief and emergency services to Israelis , ranked 18th in the top charities younger workers donated to , but just 78th for all employees -- further evidence that whatever their views on the Israel-Hamas conflict , the youngest workers are inclined to express them through charitable giving . <p> " I gave at the office " is a cliche born from a long tradition . In the late 1800s , local elites attempted to rationalize charitable giving by forming charitable societies to act as umbrella organizations that could weed out the undeserving from the deserving . Increased workplace charitable solicitations during World War II led to the first implementations of payroll deductions for donations . After the war , as other deductions for insurance , taxes and the like spread , so did the payroll giving model , with most of the money going to community chests like the now more than 1,100 U.S. chapters of the United Way Worldwide , which in turn directed the majority of their funds to a small group of big name , mainstream charities , including the YMCA , Red Cross and the Salvation Army . <p> At first , workers did n't have much choice about what their dollars supported , but under pressure from alternative giving campaigns , in 1990 United Way officially embraced the idea of allowing payroll donors to designate where their dollars would go -- even to organizations outside of United Way . Still , the percentage of workers participating in United Way campaigns continued to drop , with donations falling sharply during the Great Recession . <p> In the year ending in June 2024 , just $1 billion of the United Way 's $2.5 billion in private donations came from workplace contributions . <p> Now the spread of online giving platforms is breathing new life into the old tradition of workplace giving -- and turning it into an employee benefit , part of a broader package offered by companies to keep workers engaged and satisfied . Some 78% of employees who have workplace giving programs available say that their companies ' values align with their personal ones , compared to just 56% where workplace giving is n't offered , according to research by Artemis Strategy group for Fidelity Charitable , an affiliate of Fidelity Investments . ( In 2019 , Fidelity Charitable and the big employee benefits division of Fidelity Investments teamed up to start the Giving Marketplace , a competitor to Benevity . ) <p> Moreover , in the same Artemis survey of 1500 workers , 89% who have workplace giving programs available said they were satisfied with their current employer , 12 percentage points higher than the satisfaction rate for those without workplace giving schemes . Artemis ' findings do n't necessarily show that charitable giving is why more employees are satisfied , but it does suggest that it 's part of a benefits package found at happier workplaces . That 's something employers ca n't ignore , since according to Gallup , Millennial and Gen Z workers in particular report feeling more disengaged and stuck in their jobs these days -- a reflection of a tougher market for job-hunters that has transformed the " Big Quit " into the " The Great Stay . " <p> Further evidence that giving is now an employee benefit : 70% of employers who use Benevity match 100% of an employee 's contributions ( up to a set amount ) , Dorval reports . In total , he calculates , 65% of all dollars given through the platform get a match . Companies can also use the platform to track days off given to workers for volunteering , or even to make contributions to a worker 's charity account to reward them for volunteering on their own time . Workers can donate through payroll deduction , fund their giving with a credit card donation , or do both . Employees can designate in advance the charities their money will support or accumulate cash in a giving account , and then direct individual donations from that account -- just as someone would when using a donor-advised fund . ( Benevity uses a master donor-advised fund to hold all the donations . ) <p> The flexibility of the Benevity platform accommodates special fundraising drives and events like Giving Tuesday -- the Tuesday after Thanksgiving , Black Friday and Cyber Monday . Charities have pushed Giving Tuesday since 2012 as a way to goose donations at a time when Americans ' wallets are relatively open . During 2023 's Giving Tuesday , Benevity logged $150 million in donations made through its platform , a 22% increase from the year before . <p> Workplace giving is still just a drop in the charitable bucket -- but is growing faster than other giving channels .. The Blackbaud Giving Fund estimates $5 billion a year is given at U.S. workplaces . That 's just 1% of the $557 billion in total contributions made in the U.S. in 2023. according to Giving USA 's annual tally . But individual giving was up only 1.6% ( in nominal dollars , not inflation adjusted ones ) in 2023 , according to that report , compared to Benevity 's 14% increase . <p> By contrast , giving to donor-advised funds , run by community foundations and non-profit affiliates of such financial services powerhouses as Vanguard , Fidelity and Schwab , dropped a surprising 22% last year to $59 billion . ( To maximize their tax benefits , wealthy donors will typically contribute highly appreciated stock to DAFs in a lump when they have big gains , then dribble out contributions to specific operating charities over time . That can lead to more volatility from year to year . ) <p> While Benevity does provide U.S. workers the documentation needed to claim tax deductions , donations by rank and file workers are n't usually driven by tax considerations -- the 2017 Trump tax overhaul reduced the percentage of U.S. filers who itemize their deductions ( and thus can claim tax benefits ) to less than 8% . In fact , contributions to foreign charities are typically not deductible at all , but Benevity reports that 67% of its clients allow for international giving . ( Benevity has a roster of more than two million eligible organizations , though companies can exclude certain categories -- for example , religious organizations -- from their match . ) <p> Workplace giving now seems poised to expand further , even as DEI and social activism by CEOs shrink . A new survey of 219 big companies by Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose ( CECP ) found that between 2021 and 2023 , 53% decreased their own community investments ( which include direct cash gifts and donations of products and services , including employee time ) . At the same time , 94% of the companies ( up by four percentage points from 2021 ) offered some sort of charitable matching gift program to employees . Matching programs include year-round matches , matching during annual giving campaigns , donations to reward employees ' volunteer work and the fastest growing category , special drives for disaster relief . <p> Here 's the kicker : At companies responding to the CECP survey , only 20% of employees , on average , participated in their companies ' employer matches , up one percentage point from 2021 . Double Your Donation , which maintains a database of employers ' match programs for its clients ( who are charities ) , calculates 27 million workers now have match programs available and estimates they could be leaving $4 to $7 billion in matching money unclaimed annually . Room to grow .
