<p> The Israeli military said Plainview native Omer Neutra , a soldier who was believed to have been captured alive by Hamas in its Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack , was killed that day , with his body taken into the Gaza Strip . <p> In a statement on X , the Israel Defense Forces said it confirmed his death " based on intelligence . " The 21-year-old Israeli-American was a platoon commander in the IDF , according to the statement , which included an undated photograph and the traditional Jewish phrase used to express condolences after a death : " May his memory be a blessing . " <p> The IDF press office did not respond to emailed questions about the nature of the intelligence or the location of Neutra 's remains , but Sen. Chuck Schumer 's office said that Hamas had Neutra 's body . <p> Neutra was one of seven American Israelis believed to have been still held in Gaza , four of whom are now said to be dead . Hamas released a video of one , Edan Alexander , over the weekend , indicating he was still alive . <p> Neutra , a 2019 graduate of the Schechter School of Long Island and the grandson of Holocaust survivors , had deferred college to enlist in the IDF , his family has said . He was serving near the Gaza border , where he was in charge of a small base , when Hamas attacked Israel . <p> Sign up for the Nassau news this week newsletter <p> The biggest news , politics and crime stories in Nassau County , in your inbox every Friday at noon . <p> For more than a year since then , his parents , Ronen and Orna , led a public campaign for their son 's freedom . They spoke at protests in the U.S. and Israel , addressed the Republican National Convention this year and kept up ties with the Biden administration in their crusade to secure their son 's release . <p> In a statement Monday , President Joe Biden said he and first lady Jill Biden were " devastated and outraged " to learn of Neutra 's death . <p> " A Long Island native , Omer planned to return to the United States for college . He dreamed of dedicating himself to building peace , " the statement said . " To all the families of those still held hostage : We see you . We are with you . And I will not stop working to bring your loved ones back home where they belong . " <p> Gov . Kathy Hochul , who had issued a statement on Thanksgiving calling for the safe return of Neutra and others taken by Hamas , followed it up with a post on X : " We just learned that this prayer could n't be answered for the family of Omer Neutra . Omer was barbarically murdered by Hamas in the Oct. 7 attacks . We pray that his body can be returned to his family , who have been speaking out for him &amp; all hostages since that horrific day . " <p> State facilities will lower flags to half-staff on the day of Neutra 's funeral , according to Hochul 's office . That date will be selected by the Neutra family and publicly announced in coming days . <p> Schumer , in a statement , said he was " devastated and heartbroken " and that he was " fighting to bring Omer 's remains " and the 100 remaining Hamas hostages home . Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand , in a statement , said Neutra 's " heroism and sacrifice will never be forgotten . " <p> Reaction to Neutra 's death was swift on Long Island . <p> " The news brought me to tears , " said Rick Lewis , chief executive of the Mid-Island Y JCC , who knows the Neutra family and met Monday with Jewish leaders from the region . " We 're all dumbfounded . " <p> For many locals , Lewis said , the Neutra family " has become the Long Island representation of everything that 's going on in Israel . We want to avoid any more families ever going through the pain and suffering that they 're going through . " <p> Lewis and others had pushed for months for the safe return of the hostages . " We ca n't lose hope , as Omer 's parents did n't lose hope until today , " he said . <p> Orna and Ronen Neutra , the parents of Omer Neutra , meet with Rep. Tom Suozzi in Chicago in August , hoping to secure the release of their son . Credit : Newsday/William Perlman <p> Rep. Tom Suozzi ( D-Glen Cove ) said Neutra 's family had lived with " alternating deep sorrow and hopefulness , crushing anxiety and steely determination ... now they must face the deep grief of the loss of their son and brother . " <p> Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman , in an email from a representative , hailed Neutra as a " cherished Nassau County resident , a fellow American , and a dedicated IDF soldier , whose life was tragically cut short by acts of unimaginable terror . " <p> Oyster Bay Town Supervisor Joseph Saladino ordered flags on town property to be flown at half-staff in honor of the Plainview resident . <p> Weeks before the announcement of Neutra 's death , his father , Ronen Neutra , said the last year of uncertainty about his safety and whereabouts had been " filled with agony -- an agony no parent should have to go through . " <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 hostage . About 100 are still held inside Gaza , around two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> Israel 's ongoing retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,429 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which does not say how many of the dead were combatants . Israel says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The war has destroyed vast areas of the coastal enclave and displaced 90% of the population of 2.3 million , often multiple times . <p> Neutra joined the IDF after graduating from the Schechter School of Long Island in Williston Park in 2019 , his family told Newsday after the Oct. 7 attack . " He 's an American ; a good Jewish boy who loves both the American country and the Israeli country , " Ronen Neutra told Newsday at the time . " Everybody loves him , a smart , cool kid that was taken by Hamas . And , we need to bring him home . " <p> Omer was raised on Long Island , the oldest of two sons . His parents have dual American-Israeli citizenship . <p> Neutra was an honors student , the captain of his basketball , soccer and volleyball teams and highly active in several Jewish community organizations , according to his parents . He served as regional president of the Metropolitan New York Region of United Synagogue Youth . <p> Late last summer , Hamas killed another Israeli-American hostage , Hersh Goldberg-Polin , along with five other captives , whose bodies the Israeli military said it recovered . <p> The Biden administration said it is making another push for a ceasefire and the release of the remaining hostages , after nearly a year of indirect negotiations between Israel and Hamas repeatedly stalled .
