<p> The cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah brokered by President Joe Biden 's envoy Amos Hochstein is an important achievement . It reflects the lessons that the two of us have learned in a lifetime of diplomacy and statecraft -- and those lessons can be applied to Gaza and the broader Middle East by the Biden administration in its remaining days and by the incoming Trump administration . <p> The first lesson is the crucial importance of backing diplomacy with decisive military power and accurate intelligence in order to secure an achievable political objective . As the United States painfully learned in the Iraq War and in Afghanistan , the use of military force divorced from an achievable political outcome is doomed to fail . Force is a tool , not an end in itself . <p> Israel 's use of force set the stage for diplomacy by dramatically weakening Hezbollah . After accepting Hezbollah 's imposition of a limited war for nearly a year , the Israel Defense Forces and Mossad acted decisively to decapitate Hezbollah 's leadership ; disrupt its command , control , and communications ; destroy 80 percent of its rocket forces ; and dismantle its weapons stocks and infrastructure -- below- and aboveground -- that it had built up along Israel 's borders . Israel also retaliated against Iran after its October 1 ballistic-missile attack on Israel , destroying Iran 's strategic air and missile defense and 90 percent of its **28;2797;TOOLONG capability . In doing so , it reminded us once again of Henry Kissinger 's maxim that you can achieve at the negotiating table only what you have won on the battlefield . <p> A related lesson of good statecraft is recognizing opportunities and moving quickly to act on them . Timing matters , and the Biden administration recognized that Israel 's military achievements had created an opening to mediate a cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah , working through the Lebanese government . The administration also believed that Iran recognized that Hezbollah 's weakness made it vulnerable to its adversaries in Lebanon and that Iran , not wanting to lose the crown jewel of its Axis of Resistance , would want to end the war . <p> Diplomacy also requires good timing . The conflict was not ripe for settlement until Hezbollah and Iran had been sufficiently weakened by Israel 's attacks . Only then was Hezbollah willing to abandon its insistence that ending its missile and drone attacks against Israel would first require a permanent cease-fire in Gaza . <p> Additionally , negotiations worked because Israel had clear , limited , and achievable political objectives . The Israelis understood that they could not eliminate Hezbollah ; instead , they aimed to ensure that Hezbollah could have no forces south of the Litani River and could not easily rearm there . Both of these steps had been mandated by UN Security Council Resolution 1701 in 2006 -- but its terms were never enforced , and Hezbollah violated its terms from day one . Hochstein used Israel 's military achievements and the Lebanese government 's desire to reestablish sovereignty over its territory to create a far more serious approach to implementation : As many as 10,000 Lebanese soldiers will be deployed to the border , while the U.S. , France , and others will help improve the capabilities of the Lebanese army . The U.S. will also provide intelligence to monitor implementation of the agreement , and will chair the committee through which any violation will be immediately addressed . Israel has reportedly received assurances from the U.S. that , if violations are not reversed , it can act militarily . <p> In Gaza , Israel has also successfully destroyed the military threat posed by an adversary -- before October 7 , 2023 , Hamas had five brigades , with 24 battalions . Those are now gone , along with most of its weapons depots , labs , and production facilities . More than 60 percent of its tunnels have been blown up , including some as deep as a 25-story building . But unlike in Israel 's conflict with Hezbollah , in which it set more limited goals , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has repeatedly pledged " total victory " over Hamas . Just as Israel could not eliminate Hezbollah -- and the U.S. could not eliminate the Taliban in Afghanistan -- Israel can defeat Hamas but not eradicate it , as IDF leaders have recognized . Hamas 's ideology has been profoundly destructive to the Palestinian people , and polls show that they know it . Israel now needs to translate its military achievements against Hamas in Gaza into a sustainable political outcome . <p> Israel has repeated the mistake in Gaza that the George W. Bush administration made in Iraq and Afghanistan , and failed to marry its military action to achievable political goals at the outset . <p> In Gaza , Israel must avoid either a vacuum , in which Hamas could reemerge , or an indefinite stay , which would guarantee an insurgency . Israel did not adopt the successful model that General David Petraeus employed in Iraq , clearing an area of terrorists and then holding it , while building a better life for civilians . Such a model applied to Gaza would have provided Palestinians with both security from Hamas and confidence that it would not return . Instead , the IDF is still fighting in northern Gaza , even though it has cleared the area multiple times . <p> The most viable alternative is a mixed interim administration . The United Arab Emirates is prepared to be part of a stabilization force in Gaza , and Egypt , Morocco , Jordan , and Bahrain might also participate -- not to bail out Israel , but to ensure that it withdraws and to end Palestinian the suffering . They would join with others , including the United States and European nations , to administer Gaza . Rebuilding Gaza will be an enormous task in its own right , but it will also require the restoration of law and order , the prevention of smuggling , and the permanent demilitarization of the area . <p> The aim of such an administration would be to have the Palestinian Authority assume control over Gaza in 18 to 24 months . The PA today is weak , dysfunctional , and corrupt , but it can be reformed , as it was during Salam Fayyad 's tenure as prime minister from 2007 to 2012 . Once reformed , it could assume responsibility for Gaza . But none of this will happen unless there is an end to the war , conditioned on the release of all the hostages , and accompanied by a withdrawal of Israeli forces -- which , as in Lebanon , Netanyahu can rightly claim resulted from Israel 's military achievements . <p> In Gaza , as in Lebanon , Israel has won militarily -- and so it must focus now on producing a diplomatic outcome . The Biden administration can again use the leverage of Israel 's military achievements to push a political process in which Arab states and others can come into Gaza , as Secretary of State Antony Blinken has been attempting . <p> Our experience is that personal relationships are crucial to successful diplomacy , especially in the Middle East . President-Elect Donald Trump has great credibility with the Israeli government , and with the Gulf States , including Saudi Arabia . That he has made it clear that he wants the war in Gaza to end no doubt contributed to Netanyahu 's acceptance of the U.S.-brokered cease-fire in Lebanon and adds to the prime minister 's need to find an acceptable way out of Gaza . Producing an international and regional administration in Gaza and phasing out the IDF will take some time -- and should be done in coordination with the incoming Trump administration . It would be a mistake for Israel to wait for the new administration , as it will take time for Trump to put in place officials who can do what the Biden administration is already doing . <p> The smart application of statecraft has produced a cease-fire in Lebanon , and it has now created an opening to end the war in Gaza . Peace in Gaza would also create an opportunity for Trump to expand the Abraham Accords to include the normalization of ties between Israel and Saudi Arabia , which he has declared a priority . The Saudis want a credible pathway to a Palestinian state as the precondition of any deal , while the Israeli public and the current government are not ready to accept that . Trump will need to move quickly to leverage his political capital with the Saudis and Israelis if he hopes to pull off a deal . But if he can , a Saudi-Israeli breakthrough would transform the Middle East , creating a coalition to counter Iranian threats and promoting stability and progress in the region .
