<h> Lebanon says nine killed in Israeli strikes on southern villages <p> AFP News <p> 2 December 2024 at 3:42 pm*4-min read <p> While the ceasefire has largely brought fighting to a halt , Israel has launched strikes against targets it says were violating the truce ( - ) ( -/AFP/AFP ) <p> Nine people were killed in Israeli strikes on villages in southern Lebanon Monday , after Israel said it was taking aim at dozens of Hezbollah targets in retaliation for an attack claimed by the militant group amid a fragile ceasefire . <p> Both Israel and Hezbollah faced accusations Monday of breaching the truce , which took effect on Wednesday to end a war that has killed thousands of people in Lebanon and sparked mass displacements on both sides of the border . <p> The Israeli military in a statement said it " struck Hezbollah terrorists , dozens of launchers , and terrorist infrastructure throughout Lebanon " . <p> " Israel demands that the relevant parties in Lebanon fulfil their responsibilities and prevent Hezbollah 's hostile activity , " the statement said . <p> Lebanon 's health ministry said the strikes killed five people and wounded two in the village of Haris " in an initial toll " , while in the village of Tallous , another four people were killed and one wounded . <p> Earlier , Hezbollah said it had launched an attack targeting an Israeli position in " the occupied hills of Kfar Shouba " , in a disputed part of the border area between Israel and Lebanon . <p> Israel 's military said Hezbollah had launched two projectiles towards one of its posts in the area of Har Dov , Israel 's term for the disputed Shebaa Farms . <p> After that attack , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Hezbollah of a " serious violation " and vowed to " respond forcefully " . <p> " We are determined to uphold the ceasefire and respond to any violation by Hezbollah , no matter how minor or serious , " he said . <p> Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz also vowed a " harsh response " . <p> Shortly afterwards , the Israeli military said it was striking targets in Lebanon . <p> Lebanon 's official National News Agency reported strikes on areas of south Lebanon , where Hezbollah has long held sway , that are located around 20 kilometres ( 12 miles ) from the border with Israel . <p> - ' Aggressive actions ' - <p> Israel has carried out a near-daily series of strikes in southern Lebanon since the ceasefire was put in place , and earlier on Monday Beirut 's powerful parliament speaker Nabih Berri accused it of violating the truce . <p> " The aggressive actions carried out by Israeli occupation forces ... represent a flagrant violation of the terms of the ceasefire agreement , " said Berri , who helped mediate the truce on behalf of ally Hezbollah . <p> The fighting escalated after Israel moved its focus from Gaza to Lebanon in September to secure its northern border from Hezbollah attacks , dealing the Iran-backed Shiite Muslim movement a series of stunning blows . <p> Also Monday , French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot told Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar in a call of " the need for all sides to respect the ceasefire in Lebanon " , the foreign ministry said . <p> Saar rejected accusations that Israel had violated the truce , claiming instead that his country 's strikes were " enforcing " the ceasefire . <p> " We hear claims that Israel is violating the ceasefire understandings in Lebanon . On the contrary ! Israel is enforcing them in response to Hezbollah 's violations , which demand immediate action , " he said in a statement . <p> He also said Hezbollah had attempted to move weapons in southern Lebanon and their presence " south of the Litani river is the most basic violation of the understandings " . <p> Under the deal , Hezbollah must withdraw its fighters from areas south of the river , and dismantle its military infrastructure in the south . <p> As part of the agreement , the Lebanese army and United Nations peacekeepers will deploy in southern Lebanon as the Israeli army withdraws over a period of 60 days . <p> - ' Threats ' - <p> A committee involving France , UN peacekeepers , Israel , Lebanon and chaired by the United States is tasked with maintaining communication between the various parties and ensuring violations are identified and dealt with to avoid any escalation . <p> " We ask the technical committee formed to monitor the implementation of this agreement where it stands on ongoing violations ... that have exceeded 54 breaches , " Berri added , urging it to " oblige Israel to stop its violations and withdraw from territories it occupies " . <p> The United States said on Monday it believed that a ceasefire was still holding in Lebanon and that it was looking at potential violations . <p> Israel escalated its campaign against Hezbollah in late September after nearly a year of cross-border exchanges launched by the militant group in support of its Palestinian ally Hamas and its October 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel . <p> Earlier on Monday , Lebanon 's health ministry said an Israeli strike killed one person in the country 's south , while the Lebanese army said an Israeli drone wounded a soldier in the east . <p> Israel 's military said it was " aware of reports regarding a soldier from the Lebanese military who was injured in one of the strikes and the incident is under investigation " . <p> The army said it was responding to " several acts by Hezbollah in Lebanon that posed a threat to Israeli civilians in violation of the understandings between Israel and Lebanon " . <p> burs-raz/srm/ser/giv/aha <h> Latest stories <p> The United States called Monday for de-escalation in Syria , where an Islamist-led rebel alliance has wrested swathes of territory from the control of President Bashar al-Assad 's government in a lightning offensive.The conflict had been mostly dormant with Assad back in control of much of the country , until last week when the Islamist-led rebel alliance began its offensive . <p> WASHINGTON ( Reuters ) -U.S. manufacturing contracted at a moderate pace in November , with orders growing for the first time in eight months and factories facing significantly lower prices for inputs . The improvement reported by the Institute for Supply Management ( ISM ) on Monday tracked similar increases in other sentiment surveys , which have risen on hopes of more business-friendly policies from the incoming Trump administration . Still , manufacturing is not out of the woods yet . <p> Atlanta Federal Reserve President Raphael Bostic said on Monday he has an open mind about whether to cut interest rates again at the Fed 's December meeting , with upcoming data on jobs important in shaping the decision . " There is a lot of uncertainty , " Bostic said in comments to reporters . In an essay also released on Monday , Bostic said his base case remains that inflation will continue to fall to the Fed 's 2% target , though it remains an open question how far and how fast interest rates should be reduced to ensure that happens while avoiding any undue damage to the job market . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is set to serve his second term in the White House in January , with plans to employ immigration reform through mass deportations . The Hamilton Project director and Brookings Institution senior fellow in economic studies , Wendy Edelberg , joins Seana Smith and Madison Mills on Catalysts to examine the impact of Trump 's proposed deportations " Economies generally do n't do well with abrupt changes , and this would be no different , " Edelberg says , noting that if Trump " tried as hard as he could under current law without Congress 's help to do mass deportations , we 'd see potentially hundreds of thousands of people being involuntarily deported next year and that , along with a bunch of other economic effects and changes in the labor force that would come alongside those deportations , would mean less GDP Gross Domestic Product growth next year to the tune of as much as a half a percentage point . " The economist says the decline in GDP " comes not just from the less economic output because we the US would simply have fewer workers in the economy , but a lot less consumer spending and businesses responding to that reduction in consumer spending . " Edelberg believes Trump 's odds of pulling off the level of deportations he promised on the 2024 campaign trail to be " implausible ... even with the aid of congressional action ... " &amp;nbsp ; " If he took the kinds of actions that he 's promised to take and that state and local officials across the country look quite amenable to them , we could see maybe 450,000 people being deported next year ... And I think we would see several hundred thousand more people voluntarily leaving . We would make this country a pretty unpleasant place to be . " The economist says Trump 's proposed immigration policies would stall job growth , impact wages , reduce activities in some sectors , and raise prices for consumers . To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action , check out more Catalysts here . This post was written by Naomi Buchanan . <p> Cristiano Ronaldo was absent when Al-Nassr lost for the first time in the AFC Champions League Elite , to Al-Sadd of Qatar 2-1 on Monday . Al-Nassr was already guaranteed a place in the round of 16 so Ronaldo , who has five goals in his last three matches , was rested . Al-Sadd took the lead through Akram Afif , named the Asian player of the year in November , eight minutes after the break . <p> Israel 's military said on Monday that it was " currently striking terror targets in Lebanon " , six days into a fragile US-brokered truce with militant group Hezbollah . The announcement comes after Hezbollah fired into a disputed zone on the Israel-Lebanon border . Read our liveblog for the latest developments . Yesterday 's key developments : Iran 's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi landed in Ankara late Sunday just hours after holding top-level talks in Damascus over a shock offensive by Syrian rebels , <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has opted to keep it in the family again with some of his latest administrative picks-- this time , with the senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs . Trump has appointed Lebanon billionaire Massad Boulos to take on the role . His son , Michael , is married to Tiffany Trump , the president 's youngest daughter . " Massad is an accomplished lawyer and a highly respected leader in the business world , with extensive experience on the International scene , " Trump wrote o <p> Kash Patel may have finally been nominated for the position he craved the most -- Federal Bureau of Investigation director . But it 's not like Donald Trump wanted him first . President-elect Trump said Saturday he would nominate Patel to head the FBI , heralding him as a " brilliant lawyer , investigator , and ' America First ' fighter " and signaling he would push current FBI Director Christopher Wray out of his 10-year term . But Patel was n't Trump 's first choice for the role , according to Axios -- he just di
