<p> Both the Syrian Defense Ministry and an official from the militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , known as HTS , said that insurgents had gained access to the country 's fourth-biggest city and that despite fierce fighting , the troops of the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had left the city . <p> Hassan Abdul-Ghani , senior commander of the HTS-led forces , told NBC News that tanks had been used during the incursion and that fighters had " entered the Hama Central Prison and freed hundreds of unjustly imprisoned individuals . " <p> In a statement posted on Facebook , the Syrian Defense Ministry said that rebel groups " managed to penetrate several positions within the city and enter it , " and that " to safeguard the lives of the civilian population in Hama and to avoid involving them in urban combat , the military units stationed there have redeployed and repositioned outside the city . " <p> NBC News was unable to independently confirm claims by either side because independent journalism is very difficult in Syria , owing to the rapid changes in territory held by different groups and the repression of media by the official government . <p> Syria 's civil war has dragged on for almost 14 years but had died down since 2020 , when battle lines between Assad 's forces and a patchwork of insurgent groups became solidified . <p> But that all changed last week , with HTS -- which grew out of the former Al Qaeda affiliate Jabhat al-Nusra and is designated as a terrorist organization by the United States and the United Nations among others -- seizing the country 's most-populous city of Aleppo in a surprise offensive . <p> " It was really surprising that they managed to make it into Aleppo , " said Samuel Ramani , an associate fellow at the London-based Royal United Services Institute think tank . " This is certainly beyond anyone 's expectations -- Hama 's a critical logistical area between Aleppo and Damascus . " <p> The taking the city of Hama by HTS-led forces could prove pivotal in shifting the balance of the civil war . The city has never before been in rebel hands and has been the site of more than one bloody crackdown by both Assad 's regime and that of his father , Hafez al-Assad . <p> " It 's a huge humiliation for Assad and it comes at a time when he was confident in his long-term position , focusing on doing a deal with the Trump administration and guarding from spillovers from the Gaza and Lebanon wars -- neither Damascus nor Moscow expected a second Syrian civil war , " added Ramani , who is also an international relations lecturer at the University of Oxford . <p> Military reinforcements being moved from Idlib to control Hama , Syria , on Wednesday.Ibrahim Hatib / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> In a separate interview , Charles Lister , the director of the Syria program at the Middle East Institute , a Washington-based think tank , said that if Hama were to fall to the rebels , their next target will be the strategically important and central city of Homs , which sits around 30 miles south of Hama . <p> One feature of the battle for Hama -- and the broader Syrian civil war -- has been fierce aerial attacks from government forces . <p> The air superiority of Assad 's forces -- which have long received heavy backing from Russia and Iran -- was on display Thursday before government forces left Hama . Helicopter gunships carried out aerial bombardments with barrel bombs , according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . <p> Despite Moscow 's depleted presence , a return to the heavy Russian-led bombing of civilian infrastructure not seen since 2018 looks likely , according to Ramani from RUSI . <p> " It 's really unclear what 's next for the Assad government and how they turn back the tide . The Russians have said they 're all in on Assad but they 've redeployed jets and air defenses to Ukraine , " said he said . " It does n't mean that Damascus is going to fall but it also does n't mean Assad will be able to restore authoritarian stability any time soon . "
