<p> When a group of students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology launched a pro-Palestine magazine in the spring of 2024 , they hoped it would serve as a platform for " revolutionary thought on campus , " according to its first issue : " We believe that writing and art are among the most powerful tools for conducting a revolution . " Housing artwork , literature and essays related to Israel 's ongoing war in Gaza , the publication , titled Written Revolution , began as a totally independent magazine before becoming an official student organization this fall . <p> Soon after the October 2024 issue of the magazine came out , however , administrators in the Division of Student Life emailed the publication 's editorial team , demanding that they stop distributing the magazine on campus , according to an email shared with Inside Higher Ed by Prahlad Iyengar , one of the publication 's editors . If they continued to distribute it off campus , the administrators wrote , they must remove any reference to MIT ; if they did not comply , they could face disciplinary action . <p> According to the email , administrators took issue with an article in the October edition that Iyengar wrote himself . Iyengar , a second-year Ph.D . student , had been penalized for his participation in a pro-Palestinian demonstration last spring , and his disciplinary case was ongoing when the October issue was published . Titled " On Pacifism , " his article critiques pacifist movements , arguing that the pro-Palestinian movement must " begin wreaking havoc . " <h> Most Popular <p> " The article makes several troubling statements that could be interpreted as a call for more violent or destructive forms of protest at MIT , " the administrators wrote . " Numerous community members have expressed concern for their safety and well-being after learning of your article . " <p> They also noted that some of the images accompanying the article depict symbols of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , which the United States has designated as a terrorist organization . " The inclusion of symbolism from a U.S. designated terrorist organization containing violent imagery in a publication by an MIT-recognized student group is deeply concerning , " they wrote . <p> It 's the latest conflict between students and administrators over studentexpression related to the war in Gaza -- and a vivid example of protesters , institutions and free speech advocates disagreeing on what exactly constitutes a call to violence . The issue has pervaded campus discourse since the start of the current pro-Palestinian protest movement over a year ago , with some harshly condemning phrases like " From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free " as a call to eradicate Israel and its people , while others argue it 's simply a cry for peace and Palestinian self-determination . <p> Iyengar said that the main call to action in his piece was not encouraging readers to commit violence , but rather reminding them that " we should be thinking of ways to connect to the community , and we should be thinking of ways that really subvert state power -- because , to me , strategic pacifism is effectively an admission that the state should have a monopoly over violence . " <p> The publication has ceased nearly all distribution in response to administrators ' demands , according to students affiliated with the organization , and Iyengar is facing disciplinary action . <p> An email to Iyengar from the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards regarding his alleged conduct violations used identical language to the notice sent to Written Revolution 's staff , adding that the new charges will be added to his existing conduct case . The email also described another incident , in which Iyengar sent a message to students working in a campus lab , describing why a pro-Palestinian protest had taken place outside earlier in the day . The message , the office wrote , targeted two professors for working on projects funded by the Israeli military and " exacerbated the distress " of the student lab employees . Iyengar shared the message with Inside Higher Ed ; in it , he told the student workers that the protesters did not wish to " shame or intimidate " them and " invited them to participate in Graduates for Palestine 's efforts to end MIT 's research relationship with Israel . " <p> The student conduct office indicated that his article " On Pacifism " violated a policy that prohibits " threats , intimidation , coercion , and other conduct that can be reasonably , objectively construed to threaten or endanger the mental or physical health or safety of any person . " A separate email sent the same day said he would be restricted from campus access on an interim basis until further notice . <h> Free Speech Concerns <p> A campus speech expert with the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression told Inside Higher Ed that the writing in Iyengar 's essay does not constitute a threat and is not punishable under the First Amendment . <h> Editors ' Picks <p> " When we 're talking about fears of inciting violence , it needs to be calling not just for some kind of illegal action , simply construed -- it needs to be calling for imminent lawless action , " said Dominic Coletti , a campus advocacy program officer for FIRE . " It really does have to be directed at a group of people who can immediately do the thing you 're telling them to do . Your readers just ca n't do that . They 're not sitting in front of you . " <p> Some believe the university has taken an overzealous approach to stopping the magazine 's distribution . Two students who had distributed copies of Written Revolution prior to its ban told Inside Higher Ed they were approached by a campus police officer and asked if they were distributing " banned fliers . " They were sitting and chatting in an area of campus where they had distributed the zines before they were told not to , but had no copies on them when the officer approached . <p> One of the two students , who requested anonymity , said they found it " alarming " that campus police would be involved in stopping them from distributing a publication . <p> Mila Halgren , the other student , said that , since that day , police have approached other pro-Palestinian organizers tabling on campus to ask about the materials they were handing out . <p> " That has n't happened before and does n't happen to other student organizations , " she said . <p> Students and faculty have pushed back against MIT 's decision to prohibit the zine 's distribution , calling it a " ban on free speech . " Nearly 100 individuals showed up to protest the censorship of the magazine last month , according to WBUR , Boston 's NPR station , and nearly 3,000 people have signed a petition asking the university to reverse the decision . The Middle East Studies Association has also stood behind Iyengar and Written Revolution , asking MIT president Sally Kornbluth and other administrators to end all sanctions against him and unrestrict the distribution of the zine . <p> " Notwithstanding MIT 's suggestions to the contrary , Iyengar 's email message and article -- indisputably forms of expressive activity -- fall squarely within his right to free expression and academic freedom , as articulated by MIT 's own policies and rules , " the association 's Committee on Academic Freedom wrote , citing the institution 's Statement on Freedom of Expression and Academic Freedom and Values Statement . " While some members of the MIT community may have been offended or distressed by Iyengar 's email message and article , according to the university 's own policies those feelings can not be used to deprive Iyengar of his right to express his opinions on matters of public and scholarly concern . " <p> Kornbluth was one of several university presidents interrogated by House Republicans a year ago during congressional hearings about antisemitism on college campuses ; she is one of the few presidents who participated in those hearings to remain in her job a year later . <p> In response to a request for comment , an MIT spokesperson told Inside Higher Ed that the institution can not comment on specific students or disciplinary cases . <p> " MIT and its leadership are deeply committed to ensuring community safety , promoting student well-being , protecting free speech , and responding to policy violations , " she wrote . <p> The anonymous student who was approached by police over concerns about Written Revolution said in an interview that they thought the university 's ban on the zine , and subsequent punishment of Iyengar , had indeed chilled speech about Palestine in recent weeks . <p> " Most people have really not been handing them out in any visible way on campus . People have tried really hard to comply with the ban because we do n't want Iyengar removed from campus or to face any more harsh discipline , " the student said -- noting that the issue is still available online . In addition , " they 've claimed this is associated with capital-T terrorism ... It 's chilled the spreading and sharing of the document . "
