<p> An 8-year-old Palestinian boy from northern Gaza who lost a limb in the Israel-Hamas war arrived in Portland , Oregon , late Monday night as part of a group of children evacuated from Gaza to receive medical treatment in the U.S. <p> Nasser was wounded after an explosion in May destroyed his family 's home in Jabalia , killing his two sisters . Nasser and his mother survived , but he had to have his hand amputated , and she had to have her leg amputated , according to the Palestine Children 's Relief Fund , a nonprofit that helped organize their evacuation to the U.S. <p> Dozens of people , including volunteers with the nonprofit 's local chapter , greeted Nasser and his mother Marwa with cheers , flowers , welcome signs and gifts as they entered into the arrivals terminal in wheelchairs . <p> Nasser , 8 , right , and his mother Marwa Nasser Abdelfattah Abu Zaidah , third right , are greeted as they arrive at the Portland International Airport on Monday , Dec. 2 , 2024 , in Portland , Ore . ( AP Photo/Jenny Kane ) AP <p> " I 'm very humbled by all of these people coming to support Nasser , because he needs to know that he was not forgotten , " said Intesar Amirkani , president of the nonprofit 's Portland chapter . <p> Nasser , who will be treated at Shriners Children 's Hospital in Portland , was among the eight children from Gaza most recently evacuated by the nonprofit to receive medical care in the U.S. The group has helped organize previous medical evacuations for children from Gaza to the U.S. and other countries . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Some 100 are still held inside Gaza , around two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> Israel 's retaliatory offensive has killed at least 44,000 Palestinians , more than half of them women and children , according to Gaza 's Health Ministry , which is part of the Hamas-run government and does not say how many of the dead were combatants . <p> The war has destroyed vast areas of the coastal enclave . The United Nations estimates that 90% of Gaza 's population has been displaced , often multiple times . <p> -- The Associated Press <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy .
