<h> What the Palestinian-Israeli Group As1One Means For the Future of Boy Bands <p> In October 2023 , the starry-eyed boys of As1One boarded a plane in Tel Aviv bound for Los Angeles , buzzing and ready to record their first full album as the world 's only Palestinian-Israeli boy band . The next day , their phones lit up with the news : Hamas and other militants had attacked southern Israel , killing over 1,000 people and taking more than 250 hostages . <p> In the year since , it 's not just As1One who has watched the retaliation unfold on their phones , over social media and WhatsApp . It 's the whole world . And throughout the US -- the biggest supplier of arms to the Israeli military -- the movement to divest has gained unprecedented support , as the Israeli military continues to carry out what some human rights advocates are calling a genocide in Gaza . <p> With two singles out this year and a long-awaited Paramount+ docuseries dropping Dec. 3 that captures the band 's formation and journey thus far , As1One has remained intact , even as multiple members have lost loved ones and the future of their homeland grows more uncertain by the day . But despite the band 's proximity to the conflict -- four members are Israeli Jewish , one is Palestinian Christian , and another is Palestinian Muslim -- their official stance is that they are apolitical . Instead , perhaps backed into a corner by global geopolitics that they were hoping to avoid , trailers for their docuseries have pushed a message we 've all heard before : it 's the music that will " bring people together . " As Palestinian rapper and As1One member Aseel Farah told Billboard last year : " We do n't want to be political , we just want to be humanitarian . " <p> But many online are wondering how a group made up of people from opposing sides of the world 's most-observed war zone could simply replicate the same blueprint we 've seen time and again from boy bands -- how this group could be anything but political , even if they claim to be otherwise . <p> As1One 's first single is a good example . It 's titled " All Eyes on Us , " which some observers , like YouTube host Benedict Townsend , have pointed out is uncomfortably close to " All Eyes on Rafah , " a controversial rallying cry from this past year bringing awareness to human rights abuses committed in Palestine . The upbeat song -- studded with standard boy-band lyrics like " dance like the whole world 's watching " and riffs from celebrated guitarist Nile Rodgers -- has nothing to do with the war , at least not overtly . And it has people all over the internet raising their proverbial eyebrows . <p> " It all comes across a bit na ? ve " and very " ' Eurovision ' -coded , " Townsend said in a September episode of his show " Scroll Deep . " He wondered if As1One is " the musical equivalent of greenwashing " -- if they are , in other words , " taking something very dark and complicated and trying to just smooth it over into something simplistic . " <p> While the YouTube comments on As1One 's music videos seem mostly positive , reactions on X and Reddit expose a more widespread mistrust of the band and its aims . On Reddit , someone wrote , " As a MENA person , I do n't know what to make of the idea of an Israeli/Palestinian boyband debuting right now . " Meanwhile , X users mocked the band . " ' Hey world , ignore the genocide and expanding war , come look at us Israeli and Palestinians standing united #as1one ' barf , " one wrote . <p> " Societally , there has been a value placed on being apolitical , because if you 're not appealing to a specific identity , then the thinking is you appeal to everybody . " <p> Journalist and culture critic Maria Sherman says that since the ' 90s , when the modern pop-group formula first began to see immense success , boy bands have embraced a sort of " all-American , boy-next-door " vibe . They 're meant to be exciting to an audience of mostly young girls and their moms , and tend to be marketed with an air of innocence , with just the faintest whiff of rebellion and sex appeal . As1One , made up of six conventionally attractive 20-somethings with puppy dog eyes and white smiles , hits all those marks . <p> " Boy bands have always been wholly apolitical , and societally , there has been a value placed on being apolitical , because if you 're not appealing to a specific identity , then the thinking is you appeal to everybody , " Sherman says . " Politics are considered bad business in the pop music space because it could isolate , it could divide . There 's this idea that by speaking out politically on a cause or taking a stance you 're limiting who will enjoy , buy into , and consume your music . " <p> Still , Sherman says , what we understood to be " apolitical " or " neutral " in the past would today register as pretty transparently political , even conservative . In their heyday , she remembers NSYNC and the Backstreet Boys talking openly about God and patriotism ; the Jonas Brothers wore promise rings and made religious conservatism a part of their image early on . <p> " The purity and innocence was appealing to a lot of people , but now that would have registered as a conservative political idea , " Sherman says . " Historically boy bands have always tried to veer away from political posturing or beliefs , but looking back , there were perhaps opinions or ideologies that they were participating in . " <p> James Diener and Ken Levitan , the American music executives who formed As1One in 2021 , could n't have known about the forthcoming war . But even if the Oct. 7 attack had n't happened , assembling a band of Israelis and Palestinians has inherent political undertones . To pretend otherwise , critics say , is disingenuous . ( Paramount+ and the band 's record label , Thirty Tigers , did not respond to PS 's requests for comment . ) <p> Cultural historian Jim Cullen agrees with Sherman that boy bands generally claim to be separate from politics . And he admits the members of As1One are , " in a certain sense , prisoners of history , " having come to the US where " suddenly world politics rains on their parade . " <p> " But when they do proceed , they do what boy bands have always done , " he adds , which is to double down on their proclaimed neutrality . The public , though , seems to have caught on , he says , and is less pleased with the dynamic than they may have been in years past . <p> Cullen says the mega-hit boy bands of the late ' 90s and early 2000s flourished under the glossy " NAFTA mentality " of the time , referring to President Clinton 's North American Free Trade Agreement that transformed the US economy . <p> At the turn of the 21st century , there was a great deal of confidence in capitalism , he says . " That manifests itself in an embrace of the market , and that has important cultural consequences " -- one being a higher tolerance for the commodification of pop music and its ties to the " establishment . " <p> Just as the ' 80s swung to what Cullen calls a " capitalistic , self-commodifying " era after the countercultural ' 70s , pop music of the early 2000s reflected a renewed belief in the capitalism that repelled the grunge artists of the ' 90s . The era we 're in now is still wrestling with its identity , but between cynicism and optimism , few would argue the latter is the pervading sentiment . <p> It 's harder , Cullen says , for pop artists of any kind , but especially boy bands -- " where the commodification is foregrounded and packaged from the outset " -- to pull off the innocent , na ? ve , cheery shtick in our hyper-online , " postliberal world , " because there are fewer places to hide . Social media , for all its flaws , has exposed the inner workings of the pop music marketing machine and made it much harder to ignore the role that boy bands play in upholding the status quo . <p> That may help explain why , for some , As1One feels so " cringely out of touch with the moment , " Cullen says . <p> Surely , some people resonate with the band 's message that unity is possible through pop music . As1One 's critics , meanwhile , feel the band is untrustworthy because it 's non-committal , Sherman says . <p> But committing to anything goes against the boy band business model . <p> In recent years , fans have pushed BTS to donate to Black Lives Matter , and more generally in the world of pop , Taylor Swift fans have pressured her to make direct political statements and endorsements . But bold gestures from pop artists will likely always feel somewhat inauthentic . " When you see political action happening in music , it 's typically music on the margins , alternative in musical style , or coming from marginalized performers , less so status quo mainstream pop music , " Sherman says . <p> As1One 's message itself is not bad . Music is healing , and uplifting musical artists from war-torn regions may very well have positive consequences -- if indirect -- for people who are suffering . But as a boy band , As1One is hamstrung by its duty to be commercially viable . And the likelihood that it will produce anything truly revolutionary is low because of it . <p> " The boy band 's job is to create joyful music and make people happy , " Sherman says , " but politics do n't always make people happy . " <p> Emma Glassman-Hughes ( she/her ) is the associate editor at PS Balance . In her seven years as a reporter , her beats have spanned the lifestyle spectrum ; she 's covered arts and culture for The Boston Globe , sex and relationships for Cosmopolitan , and food , climate , and farming for Ambrook Research .
