<p> WASHINGTON D.C. ? When Tom Durkin was alerted in November 2012 that James Foley , a friend of more than two decades , had been kidnapped by ISIS while working as a freelance war correspondent in northwest Syria , he went to work with a group of friends to try and bring Foley home . <p> On Aug.19 , 2014 , Durkin received a text . It read , " I 'm so sorry about what just happened . " <p> " I just knew what I was going to find out . " <p> Durkin flipped on his television and saw an image of his longtime friend kneeling in the sand moments before he was beheaded . <p> Now details for a new memorial in the nation 's capital honoring people like Foley who lost their lives while working in journalism are being shared with the public . The Fallen Journalists Memorial , planned to be completed in 2028 , will be located on the National Mall near the U.S. Capitol . <p> At least 3,100 journalists have been killed around the world since 1837 according to a Capital News Service analysis of databases of fallen journalists maintained by the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , a nonprofit that promotes press freedom and defends the rights of journalists , and the Freedom Forum , the nonprofit organization that operated the Newseum in Washington , D.C. , prior to its closure at the end of 2019 . Nearly 90% of those recorded deaths have occurred over the last 50 years . <p> The databases created by both organizations are a result of extensive research into each reported death and require verification before names can be added to their lists , though their parameters are different . The Freedom Forum 's database extends as far back as 1837 ( and concludes in 2019 ) , and includes names of individuals tied to newsrooms who died while in the field or otherwise as a result of their work , while CPJ 's efforts began in 1992 and includes only journalists confirmed murdered in direct reprisal for their work ; in combat or crossfire ; or while carrying out a dangerous assignment . <p> When the Newseum closed , the country lost its only memorial commemorating journalists who lost their lives as a result of their work . Journalist fatalities reached a high in 2017 with 126 recorded fatalities before falling below 50 deaths per year from 2019 through 2022 , according to the CNS analysis . <p> " I commend people , especially young people , that still are determined to be journalists and talk truths to power and expose things , because it 's becoming riskier , " said Durkin , who is now the director of safety education for the James Foley foundation , an organization that promotes journalist safety and helps Americans who have a family member taken hostage overseas . <p> The Fallen Journalists Memorial Foundation formed in the wake of the Capital Gazette massacre . In June 2018 , a gunman stormed into the publication 's newsroom in Annapolis , and killed four journalists and one staff member , the deadliest attack on journalists in American history . In 2021 , Jarrod Ramos was given multiple life sentences for the shooting . <p> Congress approved legislation for the memorial in 2020 . In September , six years after the shooting , the first public images of the planned Fallen Journalist Memorial in Washington were unveiled . The memorial 's construction will be funded by a nonprofit organization created by former Republican U.S. Rep. David Dreier , who served as the chairman of the Tribune Publishing Company ( the former owners of the Capital Gazette ) from January 2019 through February 2020 . <p> The memorial will be between the National Museum of the American Indian and the Voice of America at Independence Avenue , Maryland Avenue and 3rd Street Southwest , putting it close to the three branches of government . Each of the memorial 's entry points lead to a circular Remembrance Hall that has the First Amendment inscribed in a glass lens . <p> If the foundation meets its fundraising goals on schedule , the memorial will be completed and dedicated in June 2028 , the 10th anniversary of the Capital Gazette shooting . <p> " The memorial is dedicated not only to the journalists who lost their lives , but also in the words of the legislation ' to commemorate America 's commitment to freedom of the press , ' " Barbara Cochran , the president of the Fallen Journalists Memorial Foundation , told CNS . <p> Iraq leads the world in journalist fatalities by nearly double the next country on the list , with 288 incidents compared to the Philippines ' 165 . Ten countries -- including Syria , Mexico and Russia -- make up 49% of all media-related deaths since 1975 . War and civil unrest are prevalent issues among the top 10 countries . <p> When Durkin sees reports of journalists dying in combat zones like Gaza or Ukraine , he said it reminds him of the friend he lost . <p> " Instances like this makes me think of Jim , and like , the risks that he was willing to endure to cover things in Syria , to cover things in Libya , and now you 're seeing it in Gaza , " Durkin said . " It 's this really difficult catch 22 because we need journalists to tell us what 's going on , but those journalists are increasingly putting their life at risk to tell us this . " <p> The risk journalists face while working in a war zone is evident in the current conflict between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip . Prior to October 2023 , just 25 journalists lost their lives in the area . As of November , that figure has risen to 156 -- a more than 500% increase over a roughly 12-month period . The jump has landed Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territory in third for media fatalities among all countries with at least one fatality reported since 1974 . <p> " At times , it feels like there 's indiscriminate bombing that journalists are just caught in the crossfire , " Durkin said . <p> When the Fallen Journalists Memorial is fully erected , it will have the U.S. Capitol as a backdrop . At night , up-lit glass elements will release a glow with the dome of the Capitol visible , a choice the designers of the memorial made to pay homage to the role of journalism in democracy , the foundation said on its website . <p> While a list of names will exist digitally , unlike many D.C. tributes , there will not be any on Fallen Journalists Memorial . <p> " Because sadly , " Cochran said , " This is an unfinished story . " <p> Capital News Service is a student-powered news organization run by the University of Maryland Philip Merrill College of Journalism .
