<p> For Edward Said , to be Palestinian was to be an exile . In 1979 he wrote , " Behind every Palestinian there is a great general fact : that he once -- and not so long ago -- lived in a land of his own called Palestine , which is now no longer his homeland . " Yet Said is careful to maintain that despite this shared past , all Palestinians have unique histories and experiences . " What I have tried to insist on , " he writes , " is the richness of ' the question of Palestine , ' a richness often obscured , ignored , or willfully misrepresented . " <p> Said 's desire for " richness , " for specificity and detail , resists the impulse to settle into a conclusive story about the past . This philosophy underlies Sand-Catcher , Omar Khalifah 's sharp , darkly funny debut novel , translated from Arabic by Barbara Romaine . The novel follows a group of four young Palestinian journalists who work at a Jordanian newspaper , characters identified only as archetypes : Two men , Qaa'id ( meaning " leader " ) and Khaa'in ( " adulterer " ) , and two women , Mutarjima ( " translator " ) and Khaa'ina ( " adulteress " ) . ( No one in Sand-Catcher is referred to by their proper name . ) Together the journalists -- the only four of Palestinian descent at their newspaper -- are assigned to interview an old man who is his family 's last living eyewitness of the 1948 Nakba , during which more than 750,000 Palestinians fled from their home or were expelled by the new state of Israel . Through the interview and its absurd aftermath , Khalifah satirizes the idea of telling your story as a noble or even politically effective pursuit . Instead , Sand-Catcher asks what is lost when the multiplicity of experience is reduced to a single , traumatic story . <p> That kind of flattened narrative -- easily packaged and sold -- is exactly what the journalists hope to extract from the old man . Sand-Catcher is set in the lead-up to the 70th anniversary of the Nakba , in 2018 . The novel begins with the interview , the four journalists equipped with " digital recorders , papers , smart tablets , cameras , and nineteen questions . " Surrounded by his family members , the old man sits silently through each of the journalists ' carefully crafted questions , offering nothing in response . Flustered , Qaa'id eventually says , " You ca n't imagine how valuable your testimony to the events of the Nakba will be . The world has declared war on the collective memory of the Palestinians , ' ammi , and you 're a soldier on the right side of this war . All of us have a duty to tell the world our stories , so that -- " He 's interrupted by the old man : " Get the hell out of here , you motherfuckers ! " <p> The outburst might seem shocking , but we soon learn that the old man 's only wish is " to die without being forced to tell anyone about 1948 . " He has spent his whole life refusing to excavate his past as a form of national duty . Even his eldest son does not know what happened to his father in 1948 ; he scheduled the interview in the hopes that he might finally have the chance to hear his father 's memories , despite the fact that they 'll be " mediated by strangers . " The old man 's grandson , too , is curious about his grandfather 's past , recalling a school assignment for which he had tried to interview him about the Nakba : <p> When I got home from school that day , I approached him and told him what the teacher had asked for . My grandfather said , " Write . " I opened a notebook and sat down by him . " Palestine was lost . " " Palestine was lost . " " Full stop . " <p> This line becomes the old man 's only refrain when his family asks about the Nakba : Palestine was lost . <p> If the old man 's silence frustrates and hurts his family , it outrages the reporters . This is where Khalifah 's satire is at its sharpest : The journalists begin to cast themselves as victims , not aggressors , in the fight to unearth the old man 's memories . After all , they think , their careers are on the line . If they fail , their editor threatens , he will not just assign other writers to the interview , but he will make the resulting article entirely about their failure . The editor knows what sells : a dramatic story . <p> Freshly determined to get the old man to speak , the journalists hatch a ludicrous plot . They accost him after Friday prayers and kidnap his grandson , using him as leverage to coerce the old man into talking with them ; they also try to get their hands on a diary that he has kept since 1948 . In chronicling their increasing desperation to finish the job , Sand-Catcher grows darker and more absurd . The journalists overstep boundaries , ignore their conscience , and fight -- sometimes physically -- with one another . <p> What lies behind their rabid intensity ? The journalists are not just motivated by their professional ambition : They all feel a personal stake in hearing the old man 's account . Because each of them lives in exile , their homeland is accessible only secondhand , through anecdotes and their family 's memories . For them , and for others of their generation who have never spent time in Palestine , these stories become almost cipherlike , obscuring the place itself . The grandson reflects that for him , Palestine " acquired the character of something like a legend : simultaneously real and unreal -- something he saw every day without ever getting to know it fully , a mystifying text he did n't know how to read , despite its powerful effect on him . " <p> The journalists have similarly complicated feelings about Palestine . Early on in the novel , Khaa'ina asks her colleagues to " name one specific thing , something distinctive , about your connection to Palestine . " The scene morphs from conversation into confession , revealing truths that each journalist continues to reflect on over the course of the novel . Qaa'id admits that he still mixes up the colors of the Palestinian flag . Mutarjima tells the group that the first time that she ever made maqlouba , a traditional Palestinian dish , she burned it " to a crisp . " Khaa'ina recalls that she set her wedding date for the anniversary of the Nakba , which she did n't realize until the Palestinian band she 'd hired refused to play . Khaa'in seeks out affairs with Palestinian women , searching for a kind of profound , mystical connection that he imagines he might find with a woman with whom he shares a land of origin . Through its polyvocal structure , Sand-Catcher refutes the demand for one Palestinian story to be told ( and sold ) , instead offering many stories , about many kinds of people , with many different relationships to Palestine . <p> But perhaps the most powerful insight of Sand-Catcher is that the call to bear witness should n't supersede the right to privacy . The old man calls the journalists " thieves , " condemning their almost-vampiric hunger to take something essential -- his recollections -- from him . His memory is " an intimate concern , something private , and he did n't want anyone else getting near it . Why not respect the one unique thing left to him from his homeland ? " The grandson says that everyone -- his father , the journalists -- sees his grandfather 's story " as a matter of public record , " belonging not to him but to all Palestinians . He considers the realities of life that people prefer to keep to themselves : intimate relationships , embarrassing moments from childhood , troubles at work . But witnesses to significant events , especially violent ones , are not given the option to stay silent . For them , speaking out becomes a moral duty , as Qaa'id tells the old man -- a national , collective responsibility to counter the history being written by those in power . <p> In the end , the old man surrenders his diary in exchange for his grandson . But he gets the last word . When the journalists open the notebook , each entry is the same : a date , from May 15 , 1948 , until May 15 , 2018 , and underneath it , the phrase " Palestine was lost . " Reading Sand-Catcher in late 2024 , as the terrible violence in Gaza and Lebanon continues , is a poignant reminder that each picture , each death recorded , represents an individual , a whole world of dreams , ideas , and idiosyncrasies . And some of these people might prefer , like the old man , to keep their experiences to themselves . When atrocities become commonplace , when dominant narratives circulate unchecked and unopposed , too often the burden of collective memory comes to rest on individual witnesses -- people who , Sand-Catcher suggests , might have something to lose in the telling . <p> ? When you buy a book using a link on this page , we receive a commission . Thank you for supporting The Atlantic .
