<h> " It 's in the government 's interest to keep the number of suicides quiet , they do n't want it to spread , " said Daniel Sharabi , a Nova survivor who saved dozens of lives . <p> THE SITE of the Nova music festival massacre . The writer asks ' How can we be comforted this year ? ' ( photo credit : Arie Leib Abrams/Flash90 ) <p> Eyal Golan sat at a table flanked by two citrus trees in his parents ' garden in the pastoral community of Porat -- a makeshift office that has become , reluctantly , his command center . Here , he has conducted dozens of media interviews about his sister Shirel , who died by suicide at the family home on her 22nd birthday . <p> Shirel and her boyfriend , Adi Gilad , were among the thousands of festival goers who fled the Nova music festival as Hamas terrorists began massacring revelers on October 7 , 2023 . Of around 4,000 attendees , 364 were killed and several dozen taken hostage to Gaza . <p> Those who survived witnessed extreme violence , including rape and mutilation , and experienced intense trauma after waiting hours , in many cases , for rescue . The Golan family blames the government for not doing enough to prevent his sister 's death , which came after a battle with post-traumatic stress disorder . <p> Initially , Golan wrestled with keeping up the media blitz during shiva , the traditional Jewish mourning period , but his psychologist reassured him that by speaking out , he was channeling his grief into purpose . <p> " I will do everything to be her voice and the voice of her friends who are still living , " he said.Friends and family members of October 7 victims grieve over loved ones ' deaths at the site of the Nova music festival a year after the Hamas massacre . ( credit : CHEN SCHIMMEL ) <p> Those friends , by all accounts , are still struggling more than a year after Israel 's deadliest day . While viral reports of dozens of suicides among Nova survivors are unsubstantiated , survivors , their families and mental health advocates all say that Israel is facing a crisis when it comes to the mental health of those who made it out of Nova 's killing fields . <p> A Nova survivor who asked to be referred only by his initials G.N. said he was aware of " at least another three who are very likely going to commit suicide soon . " <p> " There are so many who are technically still alive but who basically died on Oct 7 , " he said . <p> The government initially offered 12 therapy sessions for Nova survivors , later increasing it to 48 after SafeHeart -- a group formed by volunteer therapists after the October 7 attack that has treated more than 3,000 survivors -- lobbied , and said that even 48 sessions " falls short of what is truly needed . " <p> In a statement issued after Shirel Golan 's death , SafeHeart called for Israeli authorities to do more . " Shirel 's family is right -- the government must step up and do more , " it said . <p> Shirel Golan was hospitalized twice because of her PTSD symptoms . But two months before her death , she stopped leaving the house , refused to seek treatment and , in the days before , " clammed up completely , " her brother said . <p> Golan warned that without additional and timely mental health support , those affected by the October 7 attack risk becoming another " lost generation " -- a generation scarred by war and plagued by widespread disillusionment and a sense of existential loss . <p> " We saw what happened because of Germany 's lost generation after World War I. It resulted in the worst calamity to befall the Jewish people , " he said . <p> Golan said many family members of Nova survivors have expressed a fear of leaving their children unattended , worried they may attempt suicide . " I have heard countless parents tell me that they ca n't leave their child alone for one second , because the treatment they 're getting is just not enough . " <p> Golan claimed that there had been several suicides among the Nova community , citing one estimate that his sister 's had been the 53rd . In Knesset hearing in April , Nova survivor Guy Ben Shimon made similar allegations , saying that as of February , there were " almost 50 suicides among the Nova survivors " and adding that the number had likely since increased . <h> Health ministry statistics <p> But the number was fiercely contested by health ministry officials at the same hearing , with Gilad Bodenheimer , director of the ministry 's mental health division , saying they knew of " only a few cases of suicide . " The ministry also told the Haaretz newspaper that based on its records , Shirel 's death is the only confirmed case of suicide among Nova survivors to date . <p> Neither Bodenheimer nor the health ministry responded to requests for comment on the discrepancies between Bodenheimer 's estimate of several suicides , the health ministry 's claim of only one , and the second-hand accounts from some members of the Nova community . <p> " It 's in the government 's interest to keep the number of suicides quiet , they do n't want it to spread , " said Daniel Sharabi , a Nova survivor who saved dozens of lives at the rave by administering first aid and firing at terrorists from an abandoned tank and since has launched a nonprofit to support his fellow survivors . Sharabi said a member of a parents ' group for Nova survivors had told him there had been " tens of cases " of suicide but said he was not personally aware of any . <p> Efrat Atun , CEO of SafeHeart , said she did not know of more suicides apart from Shirel 's . At a hearing at the Knesset earlier this month , she censured one lawmaker for saying that there were more than 10 suicides in the Nova community , calling it " irresponsible . " <p> At the same hearing , the health ministry and the social welfare ministry warned that there were at least 30 Nova survivors deemed as very high risk for suicide . More than a hundred were currently hospitalized in mental health institutions , the ministries said , but Atun said the number was closer to 150 . <p> Mark Weiser , director of the psychiatric division at Sheba Medical Center , who has researched Nova survivors , cautions against oversimplifying suicide -- which he describes as " rare and multifactorial " -- by attributing it to a single traumatic event . <p> He explained that with around 4,000 people who attended the Nova party , it 's reasonable to expect that several hundred will be significantly affected by trauma . Of those , about 5% -- or roughly 200 individuals -- may struggle the most , a figure that aligns with what is typically seen in trauma survivors . <p> " If several of that 5% are suicidal and are doing too much alcohol and drugs because they 're having difficulty dealing with these issues , those are numbers that make sense , " he said . <p> Defining PTSD numbers in the general population is challenging , with findings varying widely . One study estimated that over half a million Israelis are at risk of developing PTSD , while another put the number at 30,000 . Data from the immediate aftermath of traumatic events offer insights about what can be expected over time . <p> For example , following 9/11 , high percentages of New Yorkers exhibited post-traumatic symptoms . Similarly , a study published in The Lancet 's EClinicalMedicine found that the prevalence of PTSD and depression among all Israelis in the weeks following October 7 nearly doubled compared to figures recorded two months before the attack . <p> According to Weiser , psychiatry allows for different interpretations of trauma : for instance , while one perspective can hold that while a single traumatic event is harmful , repeated exposure may lead to desensitization , another may argue that repeated stress is actually more damaging than a single traumatic experience . <p> " I can interpret everything one way and then flip it the exact other way . But if you 're asking my opinion , the first is true , " he said . " The first time there was an air raid siren , it was really quite frightening . But after the 12th time , you move on . " <p> While he did not downplay the tremendous strain on the healthcare system , citing soaring numbers of Israelis seeking psychological treatment and prescriptions for anti-anxiety medications , Weiser stressed that most Israelis , including survivors themselves , overcome the trauma . <p> Atun rejected comparisons to 9/11 , because the events in Israel were ongoing . " This is n't an event that happened and ended , it 's not like a terror attack where a bus explodes and then it 's over , " she said . " It 's very difficult to measure how many are traumatized , because people are still in October 7 . There are still hostages , there are missiles , there is war . " <p> But she said she disagreed with the idea that PTSD was decreasing over time , noting that in recent months , SafeHeart had experienced a " huge surge " in referrals , starting with the execution of six hostages -- five of whom were Nova survivors -- and continuing through a two-month period of October 7-related anniversaries , yahrzeits , and memorial days . <p> " The cases are getting increasingly worse , " Atun said . <p> A video of Shirel 's friend , Yael Tobol , went viral on social media after she claimed that she " might be the next case " of suicide . Tobol told the Kan public broadcaster that she had tried to be hospitalized but was rejected . <p> G.N. , meanwhile , has been volunteering with the group founded by Daniel Sharabi and his brother Neria , also a Nova survivor . <p> Sharabi , whose best friend Yosef Haim Ohana was kidnapped at the festival and is still a hostage in Gaza , said he was inspired to set up the nonprofit , called A Future for the Survivors and the Wounded , after another close friend attempted suicide . <p> The nonprofit , which is staffed by 70 volunteers , has supported the mental recovery of more than 700 Nova survivors with a range of mental health , economic , and social services , including trauma counseling , financial aid , community-building activities and aiding reentry into the workforce . <p> Sharabi described how many survivors ' lives had unraveled , leaving them without structure , hope , or the ability to cope with constant triggers and uncertainty about the future -- a struggle which in many cases is compounded by drug use , intensifying the feelings of dissociation and despair . " Drugs -- especially psychedelics -- can create a huge mess in the recovery process , " he said . " You need to be a stable and healthy person to do them . Healing like this should be done while clean of drugs , because they just amplify everything . " <p> The exception , Sharabi noted , is in a controlled clinical setting , where psychedelics have been shown to have a potentially palliative effect on trauma . Sharabi hopes to partner with trauma specialists to offer ketamine-assisted therapy to add to the other trauma therapies -- including EMDR -- his group already offers . <p> Hundreds of survivors of the October 7 attacks , including Nova survivors , are also slated to participate in a clinical trial using MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in Weiser 's division at Sheba Medical Center . <p> Sharabi said he and his brother had " found our life 's mission " with the nonprofit . But while he left his job at Israel 's defense ministry to dedicate himself to it full-time , he recently made the decision to begin his undergraduate studies at an Israeli university . <p> " I felt I needed something else , to break away from the constant focus on trauma . Because if you get too wrapped up in it , you risk losing yourself entirely , " he said . <p> The Tribe of Nova Foundation , founded by organizers of the Nova festival , likewise supports survivors and their families , offering mental health services , therapeutic workshops and other weekly community events that provide a space for healing through shared experiences . <p> Co-founder Raz Malka explained that the nonprofit arose from two core realizations : that only survivors could fully understand one another 's trauma , and that the authorities were simply unprepared for the scale of new victims needing care . <p> " I do n't blame the state . There are just too many people who need help , and even if there was no lack of budget , there just are n't enough professionals , " he said . " We 're working around the clock and it 's still not enough . You help one person and another three appear . " <p> Malka said he did not personally know of anyone who had committed suicide . <h> Nonconventional treatment <p> Some survivors have chosen to shun conventional psychological treatments . Tribe of Nova , for example , has a dedicated sports department offering everything from horseback riding to basketball and ping pong . <p> " Before we started the sports department , there were survivors who had n't left their homes for months , " Malka said . " With such a large and diverse group , we need as many solutions as possible . " <p> Earlier this month , the foundation 's soccer team competed in a tournament against teams from other struggling groups , including the devastated kibbutzim , wounded soldiers , and displaced northerners . <p> Others prefer to seek support and grounding through spiritual avenues . At a recent retreat organized by the haredi Orthodox outreach group Kesher Yehudi , held over Simchat Torah -- the date also marking the one-year Hebrew anniversary of October 7 -- Osher Daniel said she gathered the most strength from her connection to God . <p> " More than faith in God , it 's having the faith that he exists in each of us and acting on that , " she said . <p> Kesher Yehudi 's founder and CEO , Tzili Schneider , emphasizes , however , that the group 's mission is not therapeutic . " We are not therapists or social workers , and we do n't profess to have expertise in PTSD or to treat it . " she said . " We empathize -- the whole country is traumatized on some level -- we offer compassion , love and togetherness . The Nova survivors tell us often that this helps them , that it helps with their healing process , which is wonderful . " <p> Osher Daniel , too , has started her own project pairing Nova survivors with one another to commit to weekly phone calls for mutual support . " Who knows if just by simply checking in , we might prevent someone from , God forbid , taking their own life ? " <p> Her mission echoes that of Eyal Golan , who , from his garden office , pledged to honor his sister 's memory by raising awareness to prevent more loss among the Nova community . " If I manage to save just one of them , I 've done enough , " he said .
