<h> As the existential threat to Judaism has shifted from antisemitism to Israel-bashing and anti-Zionism , many American Jews still explain that the opposition is not to Judaism , but to Zionism . <p> MALCOLM HOENLEIN participates in the annual mission to Israel of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations , in Jerusalem , in 2018. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> Theodor Herzl defied the conventional wisdom of the 1890s . The prevailing view in his milieu was that European Jew-hatred was over since it was religious-based , and now Europe is secular . <p> Indeed , when a new secular ideology called antisemitism emerged , many dismissed it as merely a political view . After all , there were concerns about the " Jewish occupation of Europe " -- in culture , music , banking , and business , which the antisemites argued , pollutes humanity . <p> Yet Herzl 's European Jewish circle ignored his warnings that antisemitism was the new existential threat . One Jewish acquaintance explained to him : The opposition is not to Judaism but to liberalism . <p> We see similar dynamics today : as the existential threat to Judaism has shifted from antisemitism to Israel-bashing and anti-Zionism , many American Jews still explain that the opposition is not to Judaism but to Zionism . <h> Using antisemitism to unify Jews <p> But Herzl also had a deeper insight : He recognized that antisemitism can save European Jews , on a trajectory toward assimilation : " There , in antisemitism lies the will of God to benefit the Jews -- for it pushes us towards one another and unifies us , " he wrote . Pro-Israel students take part in a protest in support of Israel amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza , at Columbia University in New York City , US , October 12 , 2023. ( credit : JEENAH MOON/REUTERS ) <p> Herzl conceived a new ideology to capture this God-given benefit : Zionism . He stated clearly : " Zionism is the return to Judaism , even before the return to the land of the Jews . " Sadly , most European Jews did not return . <p> Some 130 years later , the Jewish state Herzl envisioned is under a dual assault : a physical one from Iran and its proxies , and an ideological one from the West . This indeed , has pushed Israelis toward one another . But can the assault on Judaism also benefit the core of the American Jewish community , which has been on a trajectory toward assimilation ? <p> One of its legendary leaders , Malcolm Hoenlein , a former head of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations , certainly believes so : " October 7 occasioned a revolution for American Jewry , " he shared with The Jerusalem Post . Stunningly , " there were 140 to 160 new Jewish organizations and initiatives that were created in the last year alone ! " <p> Therefore , it is only natural that age-old opposition to Judaism is expressed through anti-Zionism and Israel-bashing . As some noted , October 7 turned Judaism 3.0 from a thesis to a depiction of day-to-day life , as Jews were pulled into their Judaism through Zionism -- on college campuses , in the workplace and in social circles . <p> But just as Herzl posited that the 20th-century assault on Judaism can save European Jewry , Hoenlein maintains that the 21st-century assault on Judaism can save American Jewry : " Jewish organizations are attracting broader Jewish audiences -- people that previously had no connection to Judaism or organized community . " This includes influential American Jews : " There are CEOs , business leaders , Jews that had no interest in engaging in Jewish causes , and since October 7 , are doing a lot . " <p> Still , many American Jews tout the slogan of " Zero tolerance to antisemitism " ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of the previous century ) , while tolerating and even partaking in Israel-bashing and anti-Zionism ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of the 21st century ) . <p> This is akin to European Jews in the 1940s touting : " Zero tolerance to religious-based Jew-hatred " ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of previous centuries ) , alongside tolerating and even partaking in antisemitism ( the threat to Jews and Judaism of the 20th century ) . <p> Moreover , according to election exit polls conducted by J-Street , which Hoenlein dismisses as bogus , only 14% of American Jews listed Israel as one of their top two voting issues ! This is while Israel is at war , missiles are coming in , and over 100 , mostly Israelis , are held hostage in Gaza . This perhaps is reminiscent of the 1944 election , when American Jews failed to use their political leverage on President Roosevelt to bomb the extermination camps , where European Jews were being murdered . <h> Renewed fear of dual loyalty ? <p> Indeed , back then , and for the following 80 years , it was explained that American Jews in positions of power -- in the media , State Department and other government agencies -- fear being suspected of having " dual loyalty , " and had therefore developed an obsessive anti-Israel bias . <p> But the American public has since shifted . Surveys indicate broad support for the Jewish state , as its soldiers are fighting a seven-front war -- a war on terrorism that also benefits the West and the United States . <p> This awakens the question of " dual loyalty " -- but in reverse : While it is becoming increasingly clear that the Western assault on Judaism is a proxy for an assault on America , some powerful American Jews still accuse Israeli Jews of being " a Pariah opposed by the rest of the world " and of " dehumanizing others . " This in turn fuels the assault and gives it legitimacy . <p> Yet Hoenlein -- whom for full disclosure , I served alongside on the board of the America-Israel Friendship League for 20 years -- believes that there is a seismic shift coming . <p> Hoenlein , who meets world leaders on a regular basis , shared a conversation he recently had with Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu : " I told the prime minister that Israel has to start building a lot of affordable housing . " This , he said , is due to an anticipated post-war inflow of American and European Jews -- some making aliyah , and others what he calls " half-aliyah . " <p> We have witnessed quite a few miracles in the last year , such as sustaining thousands of incoming missiles , the Hezbollah beeper attack , as well as the astonishing mutual assurance and unshakable resolve of Israeli society . Are we about to see another ? <p> Are American Jews about to return to Judaism through Zionism -- physically or ideologically -- just as Herzl envisioned ? <p> Hoenlein certainly thinks so : " This is revolutionary ... October 7 and the reaction to it radically changed many in the American Jewish community . " Judaism is indeed going through a historic transformation . This leads to new existential threats , but also unleashes enormous opportunities .
