<h> A Conversation With Beirut 's Wartime College President <p> A week after the Israel-Lebanon ceasefire , the president of the American University of Beirut talked with Inside Higher Ed about guiding the institution through conflict and preserving democratic values in the face of terror . <p> Displaced Lebanese huddle in front of the American University of Beirut 's medical center on Nov. 26 , the night of the ceasefire with Israel . <p> Ed Ram/Getty Images <p> When Israel and Hezbollah brokered a ceasefire agreement last week , Dr. Fadlo Khuri breathed a sigh of relief . But he 's not resting easy . <p> The American University of Beirut , where Khuri is president , had started its fall semester in crisis . In the wake of Israel 's invasion of Lebanon in June , months of bombings and reprisals threw the capital into chaos , killing thousands and displacing many more . <p> Khuri , who has led AUB since 2016 , is used to conflict ; he 's seen the institution through a financial collapse , a short-lived revolution and a pandemic . But the extent of the violence over the past few months shocked him . Two AUB students and a staff member were killed by Israeli bombs . Resounding explosives provided a soundtrack to campus life when classes were n't canceled . Displaced civilians set up tent encampments around the university , unsure where else to turn . <h> Most Popular <p> When Khuri spoke with Inside Higher Ed on Monday , he 'd just returned from an international trip to cement partnerships with universities in the U.K. , U.S. and Australia , in case worsening violence forced students to finish their semester elsewhere . After the ceasefire , Khuri said he hopes for a " prolonged period of peace and quiet . " But he knows there have n't been many of those in the university 's modern history . <p> AUB presidents have been kidnapped and assassinated . The 150-plus-year-old university has survived civil wars , refugee crises , countless bombardments and conflicts with neighboring Israel -- even the collapse of the Ottoman Empire . Khuri said the past year has been one of the most difficult in the institution 's history ; he 's sure it will survive this , too . <p> " My perspective is , you ca n't just manage the crisis of the moment . You 've got to plan what you 're going to do down the line to overcome those losses and rebuild , " he said . " People want to rise to the occasion , rally to the crisis . But they always need to see the next horizon . " <p> Khuri 's conversation with Inside Higher Ed , edited for length and clarity , is below . <p> Q : What have the past few months been like on the ground at AUB ? <p> A : For the first several weeks , none of the strikes were that close to AUB . But that changed in November ; for example , when they assassinated former Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , that was loud enough for us to hear . We had one student killed , one recent graduate killed , two staff killed and two students seriously injured . So we had tragic losses . <p> It was a very abnormal period for everyone . Classes were stop-and-go . We did a survey , and 90 percent of students felt there had been a major disruption in their ability to study , whether it was their concentration being interrupted , they were displaced , they did n't have reliable internet , they were stressed because of their family . That 's a pretty high number . <p> There 's also the chaos of the city . The number of displaced people in Beirut grew from a few hundred thousand to 1.5 million . The university was surrounded by people who were displaced , who started to camp outside the university 's doors . One day , we had some folks encroaching on the university 's gates to a point where we could n't function . Even though the government had found housing for them , they decided to put up tents next to the university , possibly because they thought we would n't get hit . <p> Meanwhile , we were trying to find accommodations for our own community . We were able to rent some facilities , make agreements with NGOs and partners . We cleared out off-campus dorms so we could house our staff . The goal was to not lose the semester , because the semester gives some hope . Even if students are stressed about an exam , they want to know there 's something to look forward to other than the next bombing . <p> I do n't have any surveys done since hostilities ceased . But our latest data , which is probably no more than two weeks old , says more than 50 percent of students were displaced -- not all of them because of their homes being hit , but many of them because of the safety situation in the country . And about 45 percent of the faculty and staff had either moved or were hosting multiple family members . Anytime you have numbers like that , it 's a major challenge . It 's hard to know how many more students will need financial aid , but it 's clearly going to be a significant increase . So it 's been a challenge from the educational perspective and the student perspective , but also from a financial perspective . <p> Q : Is that why you were on a fundraising trip ? <p> A : Yes , to raise additional resources to be able to offset some of that , especially for financial aid . Because some people who needed some financial aid may need more , and others who did n't need any might need total financial aid . We pride ourselves on the fact that we have n't let kids drop out for purely economic reasons . But last year , we had 89 percent of our students getting some financial aid ; 22 percent of those received full financial aid and another 67 percent averaged about half tuition . Any more is obviously not affordable for us . We 're the largest private employer in Lebanon , and we were approaching some equipoise when all of this happened . So we 're still trying to figure out what people need to get the students through , to get the faculty and staff paid without having to cut into their income . <p> I met with eight university and higher ed institution leaders in England , Ireland , Scotland , both U.S. coasts , Australia . I wanted a plan for our students in case we could not finish the semester or could n't start the next semester . We did raise some funds . We talked to foundations and other partners . But we 're not just fundraising , we 're also friend-raising : raising awareness of the precariousness of our situation . At the time , we had no clue there would be a ceasefire anytime soon ; our thinking was , based on the U.S. elections , they would n't get to it until the spring . <p> Q : Tell me about the efforts of AUB 's Center for Civic Engagement and Community Service . <p> A : We 're encouraging students not just to come here and go to class and go home and study and take the tests , but to really be a part of the community . This is something that took off in 2006 after Lebanon was caught in the middle of the Israel-Hezbollah war that lasted 35 days . Then you had the Syrian Civil War in 2011 , the uprising in 2019 , the port explosion in 2020 , the pandemic . So this is not the center 's first rodeo ; they have a lot of experience in doing things that are proactive . <p> Already , the CCECS is starting to study the needs of the community as we pick up the pieces . We have well over 1,200 students who are involved , asking how they can help communities all across the country , either in setting up temporary health or educational or sheltering facilities , or directing people where to go , or doing food drives or vaccination drives . It 's critical in this period to give people some agency so they do n't feel helpless . <p> Q : AUB 's hospital has also played a big role in helping the injured . Do you see that as part of the university 's community service ? <p> A : It 's very important to set that expectation , to give people a sense of agency , that we can do some good . We 've been doing that since 1917 , when the Ottoman Empire decided to close down AUB . It was Syrian Protestant College at the time , and Howard Bliss , who was the second president , convinced the Ottoman pasha for the region to reopen because of the importance of medical and dental care . He agreed after he saw that the hospital was neutral and helped everyone . And we have stuck to that tradition of treating everyone for 100-plus years . That 's part of the special trust that the people of the entire region have for this institution . I 'm sure that if you ask people in Israel or Palestine or anywhere else in the Levant , if you had someone who was wounded , where would you want to go ? They would tell you , AUB 's medical center . <p> A : Yes . We see the Israeli Defense Forces targeting hospitals in Gaza ; Russia targets hospitals in the Ukraine . Unfortunately , what we 're seeing in this increasingly polarized world is health-care institutions , universities , childcare institutions are becoming less sacrosanct . So of course you 're worried . Still , and I do n't want to be arrogant to say this is a unique and special place , but we have had a tremendous residence for more than 100 years . And I do think that the political price that one would pay , whoever you are , for hitting this particular hospital or campus would be quite high . As long as we maintain our neutrality , that 's all we can do . <p> Q : How do you prepare the university to face a future in which it 's possible that this kind of conflict keeps happening more frequently ? <p> A : I think the only thing you can do is to tell people the truth . Fortunately , online teaching has moved up several notches since we first started dabbling in 2019 . Do n't take my word for it ; the faculty , deans , provost , even the students are saying the online courses we have are really quite superior . So far our applications for next year look quite healthy . They 're not quite as high as last year , and the component that 's down is the international students , which is not surprising . But there 's still time for them to apply , and I think if there 's this ceasefire and election of a president in the next couple of months , that will also pick up because it 'll be a harbinger of stability . But really , we have a world-class education , and we 're honest about the danger . We do n't want anyone risking their lives , but it 's not exactly the most stable country in the world and people know , for the most part , what they 're getting into . <p> AUB students protest the Israeli attacks on Palestine in May . <p> Fadel Itani/NurPhoto via Getty Images <p> Q : There are dozens of American Universities across the world , and new ones being established in volatile areas : in Kyiv , Ukraine ; in Kurdistan ; in Baghdad . Is the mission and power of these American-style institutions fading in places like Beirut ? Is it harder to run a university with the word " American " in the name ? <p> A : You have to be very honest and say , we 're very proud to be an American university . But we 're really about shared values -- secular , humanist , liberal values . Everyone has their own view ; that 's what the American university should be about . It should n't be about indoctrination . There are people with certain persuasions who love to portray us as the penetrating point of American foreign policy . But we do n't get our orders from the State Department or the White House ; we have boards , and ours is chartered in New York . The trustees can hire and fire me , but they do n't tell us what to do . <p> You have to be very clear about your messaging , and your best messengers , honestly , are your students and your faculty and your staff . They 're the ones who create this atmosphere where people feel they can express themselves , from the furthest-apart extremes of opinion , and then come together to talk ... real academic freedom , real freedom as well . That 's what we do . It 's uncomfortable for others . It can be uncomfortable for us , too . But it 's the right thing to do .
