<p> MOSCOW -- Unlike during his first term in the White House , President-elect Donald Trump now appears determined to keep many of his campaign promises . His Cabinet nominations -- from the Kremlin-friendly Tulsi Gabbard as director of national intelligence to the conspiracy-loving vaccine skeptic Robert F. Kennedy Jr . as secretary of Health and Human Services -- confirm his commitment to a scorched-earth campaign against American institutions and perceived enemies " from within . " His victory speech suggests that he is serious about " stopping wars . " <p> Trump has long asserted that he would end the Ukraine war within 24 hours of taking office . There has been much speculation about a negotiated settlement , and the scenarios all have one thing in common : Ukraine 's dismemberment . If this has to be the cost of peace , it is worth considering the grim history of territorial partition . <p> Few events create such long-lasting enmity ; fewer still have caused more devastating violence . The three partitions of Poland that took place in the late 18th century are perhaps Europe 's closest parallel to what may befall Ukraine . Beginning in 1772 , Austria 's Habsburg monarchy , the Kingdom of Prussia and the Russian Empire seized and annexed territory , effectively dividing Polish lands among themselves and erasing what had been Europe 's largest state by landmass . <p> The outgoing president 's priority should be to get the biggest bang possible out of the $6 billion that 's congressionally authorized to support Kyiv . <p> Dec. 3 , 2024 <p> In the face of such subjugation , violent resistance is all but inevitable . Poles conducted periodic guerrilla-style campaigns throughout the occupation , with major uprisings in 1831 and 1863 . Resistance continued well into the 20th century , led by Jozef Pilsudski 's campaigns for independence -- laced with acts of terror -- before World War I. Enmity toward Russia in particular endures , with the Kremlin having Stalin-era violence toward the Polish people to answer for . <p> As for France , it harbored hatred toward Germany for decades over Kaiser Wilhelm I 's absorption of Alsace and Lorraine into the new German Empire following the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71 . Reconciliation between the two countries began only in the 1950s , with the emergence of the European Coal and Steel Community ( the precursor to today 's European Union ) and NATO . <p> Similarly , Britain 's decision to partition Ireland , keeping the northern province of Ulster as part of the United Kingdom , incited a civil war between those willing to cede Northern Ireland and those who rejected any treaty that did not grant Ireland complete independence . That " war of peace " lasted two years and left a legacy of terror -- both Catholic and Protestant -- that ended only with the Good Friday Agreement , brokered by the United States , in 1998 . <p> Advertisement <p> Perhaps the most brutal partitions occurred in Asia in the 20th century . In 1932 , the Empire of Japan carved Manchuria out of the Republic of China and created the puppet state of Manchukuo . The Japanese Kwantung Army 's 13-year rule there -- which included the enslavement of millions of people , perverse medical experimentation and slaughter of minorities -- became something of a blueprint for the Nazis in Eastern Europe . <p> In terms of lives lost directly to a partition , however , nothing can compare to the 1947 division of the Indian subcontinent , following the departure of the British , into Hindu-majority India and Muslim-majority Pakistan . The partition triggered one of the largest migrations in history -- involving some 18 million people -- with Muslims heading to Pakistan ( including modern-day Bangladesh ) and Hindus and Sikhs trekking to India . Sectarian violence including rapes , burnings and mass killings led to the deaths of as many as 3.4 million people . <p> In the 77 years since the British Raj was partitioned , India and Pakistan have fought four wars , with the most recent , in 1999 , occurring when both countries already possessed nuclear weapons . <p> Advertisement <p> Vietnam 's 1954 partition -- into a northern zone , governed by the communist Viet Minh , and a southern zone , governed by the Republic of Vietnam -- proved similarly bloody , unleashing two decades of war that left up to 3 million Vietnamese dead . <p> And then there is the 1947-48 partition of Palestine into an independent Jewish state and an independent Arab state . This decision by the United Nations sparked decades of hostility , oppression , terrorism and wars that continue to this day . One need only to look at the ruins of Gaza to see the horrifying legacy of partition . <p> Around 32.5% of Russia 's budget posted on a government website Sunday has been allocated for national defense by President Vladimir Putin . <p> Dec. 1 , 2024 <p> So , what might a partition of Ukraine yield ? In fighting for their territorial integrity since February 2022 , Ukrainians have demonstrated courage and dynamism , qualities they will certainly bring to bear in rebuilding their country . But given the scale of the human and economic losses they have incurred , it will be hard for them to submit quietly to the idea of partition . It will be especially hard given that Russian President Vladimir Putin has made no secret of his belief that Ukraine is not just a " neighboring country , " but " that modern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia " and therefore should exist only under the Russian umbrella . <p> In any possible future peace negotiations , Ukrainians know that the best chance to prevent further Russian interference is through ironclad international security guarantees , if not immediate NATO membership . <p> Trump appears to loathe America 's current security commitments , but for the U.S. not to offer such guarantees may prove harmful to Russia , too . <p> Putin rose to power on the heels of a devastating war and protracted insurgency in Russia 's republic of Chechnya , which included terrorist attacks by Chechen separatists in Moscow and other Russian cities . Already in 2022 , the Ukrainians promised a guerrilla war against Russia . Devoid of other options , that risk will only increase . Trump should seek to persuade the Kremlin of the need for fair negotiations ; otherwise , post-partition terrorism may come to Russia , possibly on a greater scale than the Chechens ever imagined .
