<p> DUSSELDORF , GERMANY -- SEPTEMBER 15 : Meghan , Duchess of Sussex and Prince Harry , Duke of Sussex watch on during the Mixed Team Gold Medal match between Team Colombia and Team Poland during day six of the Invictus Games D ? sseldorf 2023 on September 15 , 2023 in Duesseldorf , Germany . ( Photo by Joern Pollex/Getty Images for Invictus Games D ? sseldorf 2023 ) <p> Newly released IRS documents show that the largest donation made by Prince Harry and Meghan Markle 's Archewell Foundation in 2023 was $250,000 to a new nonprofit launched last year by Ashley Biden , the daughter of President Joe Biden . <p> The nonprofit is the Pennsylvania-based Women 's Wellness Space , described as a " wellness center for women affected by trauma , " according to the foundation 's Impact Report , People reported . Its founder , Ashley Biden , is a social worker with experience working with formerly incarcerated women , according to the report . Her center " aims to offer a safe haven and community for women impacted by trauma , providing resources such as nutritious food , exercise , meditation and therapeutic interventions . " <p> The donation was hailed by supporters of the Duke and Duchess of Sussex , who say it benefits a good cause that aligns with Meghan 's philanthropic history , which has long focused on uplifting women and girls . <p> Ashley Biden welcomes her father , US President Joe Biden , to the stage on the first day of the Democratic National Convention ( DNC ) at the United Center in Chicago , Illinois , on August 19 , 2024 . Vice President Kamala Harris will formally accept the party 's nomination for president at the DNC which runs from August 19-22 in Chicago . ( Photo by Brendan SMIALOWSKI / AFP ) ( Photo by BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> However , the Biden connection has raised eyebrows -- and more -- among the couple 's critics . The right-wing Daily Mail argued that the couple insisted they would remain politically neutral ahead of the presidential election , while the Daily Beast pointed out that the Biden Administration has been accused of protecting the couple by not fulfilling a Freedom of Information request to release the duke 's immigration records . <p> The Heritage Foundation , the right-wing think tank which authored the controversial Project 2025 plan for the incoming Trump administration , sought Harry 's immigration records to find out if he had been honest about his past drug use when he applied for a visa . A federal judge ruled in September that Harry was entitled to privacy in the matter and his paperwork should not be released . <p> The news about this donation for Ashley Biden also comes as her father is under fire from various quarters , including legal experts and some Democrats , over his decision to grant a sweeping pardon to her older half-brother , Hunter Biden . Biden pardoned Hunter Biden for his convictions on tax and gun charges , as well as for any " offenses against the United States " committed over the past 11 years . <p> As for the Archewell Foundation 's other charitable news , their tax documents showed they garnered a $5 million donation from an unnamed individual and gave out a total of $1.3 million in grants to various organizations . <p> One beneficiary was ArtTogether , an Oakland nonprofit that provides art programs that foster a sense of community amongst refugee and immigrant populations . The $27,500 ArtTogether donation was made under the umbrella of the Archewell 's " Welcome Project , " which supports programming for women who have recently resettled from Afghanistan . Archewell said it supports 11 active Welcome Projects in the United States , which are " designed to foster a sense of belonging through activities including sewing , art , hiking , swimming , photography , storytelling and cooking . " <p> Other top Archewell beneficiaries include the NAACP and organizations that support community-based journalism and mental health services for aid workers in Israel , Gaza , Syria and Turkey . <p> However , the tax documents also show that the $1.3 million in grants constituted only 39% of total expenses for 2023 . The foundation spent far more in 2023 -- $1.9 million , or some 61% -- on salaries and compensation to executives and on a range of administrative costs , travel , events , legal services , advertising and payment to consultants . <p> Charity watchdog organizations use a variety of measures to rate the effectiveness of nonprofits , but often focus on " the program expense ratio , " according to Charity Watch . That is , the percentage of total expenses that an organization devotes to programs that benefit people or causes -- as opposed to the percentage spent on overhead , which includes management and fundraising . <p> " While administration expenses are necessary for efficient charity operations , organizations that grossly underspend on their programs and services will most likely not have as strong an impact on their charitable missions , " Charity Navigator also said in its 2024 Rating Methology Guide . <p> The Better Business Bureau has said that at least 65% of expenses should be for programs , while Charity Watch said that 75% is the ideal . In its rating methodology , Charity Navigator holds 70% as its ideal and wo n't give points to organizations if their program expense ratio is under 50% . <p> As for Ashley Biden 's program , the first daughter told Elle in 2023 that her wellness center takes her back to the Philadelphia area , where she earned her master 's in social work through the University of Pennsylvania , before taking jobs at the Delaware 's Department of Services for Children , Youth &amp; Their Families and Delaware Center for Justice . In the Elle interview , Ashley Biden said she imagined the center , which is operational , as providing " a drop-in space where women can eat a healthy meal , hit the treadmill or box , listen to guided meditation , and access therapies including EMDR and infrared saunas , which Ashley herself has found effective and wants to share with others . "
