<h> The Beckhams Were Surprise Guests at the Palace <p> ByEmily Leibert , a morning blogger for the Cutwho specializes in coverage at the intersection of gender and sports , the arts , and our relationship to our bodies <p> Photo : Getty Images <p> I guess if you 're David and Victoria Beckham , the queen ( consort ) really will see you now . On Tuesday , the king and queen of posh took a little trip to visit the king and queen of England at Buckingham Palace , where they held hands and matched in black formalwear . Per Us Weekly , the Beckhams were on hand for a royal-family-hosted state banquet , held in honor of Qatar 's Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani -- the country 's monarch and head of state known as the Emir . <p> According to the tabloid , the Beckhams were n't accounted for on the invite list distributed to press , causing somewhat of a stir upon their arrival . The rest of the guest list marked a who 's who of England 's most distinguished cultural and diplomatic VIPs , including British politician Kemi Badenoch and Paris Saint-Germain football-club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi , who were reportedly seated next to the Beckhams . I wonder what they talked about . Presumably not Qatar 's history of human-rights violations . Per the BBC , King Charles praised his guests for their " tireless mediation efforts over the past year in pursuit of peace " throughout the Gaza conflict , which the Emir has called a " collective genocide . " Everyone then broke bread during a 4,000-piece dinner service , featuring pheasant wrapped in Savoy cabbage , roasted celeriac pur ? e and potato gratin , and a Balmoral plum sorbet . <p> After suffering from a chest infection a month ago , Queen Camilla pulled through and made an appearance at dinner alongside King Charles . And though Kate Middleton has slowly resumed her public duties after recently wrapping up chemotherapy treatment , the princess of Wales was absent Tuesday night . She did , however , pop by the welcome procession earlier in the day alongside Prince William , where they greeted the Emir and his wife . <p> What a fun and totally relatable date night for Mr. and Mrs. Beckham . If the tabloids are to be believed , Meghan Markle is probably somewhere fuming.
