<p> When those pop , they produce a small but powerful pressure wave that scours grime from the skin -- the same process used to clean electrical components that ca n't be washed with chemicals . <p> Just like so many things nowadays from smartphones to restaurants , the wash pod offers far more than its primary function . <p> In this case , an innovative artificial intelligence system AI analyzes the aforementioned biomarkers to see if the customer is calm or excited and then projects a specially chosen video onto the plastic pod 's interior to calm their nerves . <p> AI analyzes biomarkers to see if the customer is calm or excited and then projects a specially chosen video onto the plastic pod 's interior to calm their nerves . Television OSAKA NEWS <p> The bathtub uses sensors to ensure that the bather is washed at the proper temperature . Television OSAKA NEWS <p> As a result , the user receives a psychological deep-clean to go with the physical one , the company claims . <p> This technology might seem cutting-edge , but it 's actually a case of rinse and repeat : It 's based on a machine exhibited at the 1970 Japan World Exposition by the Sanyo Electric Co. , now Panasonic Holdings Corp . <p> That tech , dubbed the Ultrasonic Bath , also filled with water when the user climbed in , then released ultrasound waves as well as plastic balls to massage the bather 's body . <p> While the device never took off , Aoyama -- who waited in line as a fourth grader to try the bath at that time -- was inspired to create his own automated people scrubber . <p> " It made me excited , thinking about what kind of future there would be , " said the bathtub boss . " We will offer a new human washing machine as a legacy from the 1970 expo . " <p> Just like with its predecessor , he plans to exhibit the Mirai Ningen Sentakuki in April at Expo 2025 in Osaka , where 1,000 people will get to give the state-of-the-art scrubber a whirl . <p> The company is already accepting reservations for the automated bathtub on its website . <p> But do n't worry if you ca n't jet to Osaka to try it out -- the company is planning to debut a home edition in the future . <p> China and Japan are experiencing the worst slide in public sentiment towards each other in two decades , with nearly 90 per cent of respondents harbouring a negative view of their neighbour , according to a new joint poll . The 20th Japan-China Joint Public Opinion Poll was released on Monday by Tokyo-based think tank The Genron NPO and Beijing-based China International Publishing Group , ahead of the annual Tokyo-Beijing Forum . In the survey , 87.7 per cent of Chinese respondents said they had a neg <p> China must protect its overseas interests related to the Belt and Road Initiative ( BRI ) amid growing global risks , President Xi Jinping said on Monday . Speaking at a working conference on BRI projects , Beijing 's sprawling effort to build out a global infrastructure and trade network that connects to China , Xi warned that the international environment has become " tough and complicated " . " In recent years , the world has entered a new period of turbulence and change , with a significant rise in unila <p> Malaysia 's jailed ex-leader Najib Razak began his defence Monday against graft charges tied to more than $500 million in alleged bribes and several counts of money laundering , saying they were " politically motivated " . The case involves 2.27 billion ringgit ( $510 million ) in alleged bribes and 21 counts of money laundering . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> China announced Tuesday it is banning exports to the United States of gallium , germanium , antimony and other key high-tech materials with potential military applications , as a general principle , lashing back at U.S. limits on semiconductor-related exports . The Chinese Commerce Ministry announced the move after the Washington expanded its list of Chinese companies subject to export controls on computer chip-making equipment , software and high-bandwidth memory chips .
