<h> Maccabi Tel Aviv regains confidence in Euroleague <h> Full team effort in Berlin victory offers hope for upcoming clashes with Paris and Barcelona <p> MACCABI TEL AVIV Israeli-American forward Will Rayman was one of several players to step up for the yellow-and-blue in its Euroleague win at ALBA Berlin . ( photo credit : YEHUDA HALICKMAN ) <p> Maccabi Tel Aviv is gearing up for a pivotal week with two major European games against Paris and Barcelona . <p> These matchups are critical for the team 's standing in the Euroleague , and Maccabi enters with renewed confidence following a morale-boosting victory over ALBA Berlin , 103 -- 85 . <p> First off , Rokas Jokubaitis led the charge early , scoring eight consecutive points and finishing the game with a personal-best 24 points . Next , John DiBartolomeo set the Euroleague free-throw streak record with 70 consecutive makes , eclipsing Kevin Punter 's mark . <p> Wenyen Gabriel contributed across the board with eight points , seven rebounds , three assists , and three blocks , while Will Rayman brought high-energy defense and added 12 points off the bench . Jaylen Hoard shone with 18 points and four steals , while David DeJulius added a solid 14 points . <p> It was a remarkable evening , but one that should be taken in proportion due to the opponent on the opposite side of the floor.MACCABI TEL AVIV guard Rokas Jokubaitis drives against Fenerbahce during the yellow-and-blue 's Euroleague loss this week . ( credit : Rokas Snarskis ) <p> However , a win is a win , and Maccabi needed one desperately in continental action after having dropped four straight contests and seeing its record plummet to 3 -- 8 . Prior to the ALBA game , Tel Aviv 's last European victory had been at the end of October against Real Madrid . <p> " This was a really good team win , " Rayman said following the victory . " And it 's really important for us because we lost some in a row . So it 's good to get some confidence from this win as we look towards next week 's double week . Hopefully , we can build on the momentum from this one . " <p> DiBartolomeo was all smiles after the game as well , " We got off to a good start , which I was happy with , and then we were able to maintain it . ALBA plays very fast -- there are a lot of possessions . They could make a lot of runs , especially in their home gym , and they did exactly that . But we were able to weather it , which I think was a big step for us in our growth as a team . " <p> Both Rayman and DiBartolomeo made their marks in this game -- the former putting in plenty of points while the latter put his name in the history books as Mr. Consistent from the charity stripe . However , the always modest Rayman ( and the same can be said of DiBartolomeo ) wanted to give credit where it was due for his performance . <p> " I just try to help the team in any way I can , " Rayman exclaimed . " Today my teammates were finding me , and I was able to make some shots and play some defense . But honestly , I 'm just really happy with the win . " <p> As for DiBartolomeo , he did n't want to dwell too long on the record-setting night and was more focused on the team taking home the victory . <p> " I was told at halftime , and I do n't like being told in the middle of the game -- I think it 's a little distracting . I was a little worried I was going to miss one in the second half . But honestly , it 's cool to make history . The storyline here is that we were able to get back on the winning side in the Euroleague . " <p> The yellow-and-blue will try to build off this win with a pair of clashes next week at its home away from home in Belgrade . But it wo n't be easy by any stretch of the imagination , with games against the upstart Paris team and the always-dangerous Barcelona , which is coming off a derby defeat to Real Madrid . <p> Maccabi did get to see its fans on Saturday night back at Yad Eliyahu as it defeated Maccabi Ramat Gan . Ultimately , with the ceasefire now in effect in the north and the war against Hamas in the Gaza Strip wrapping up , the club and players would love to get back to playing their Euroleague home games in Tel Aviv . <h> Maccabi fans show support in Berlin <p> However , the Maccabi fans from far and wide showed up in Berlin despite the threats of large anti-Israel protests . This did bring in a significant police presence . Whether they were from Israel , Germany , or elsewhere , the yellow-and-blue supporters showed their love for the team when it was needed most . <p> DiBartolomeo explained : " From the start of the game , when they introduced the club and the players , the support was amazing , and it made me miss our Euroleague home crowd . " <p> Rayman , who has yet to experience a packed Yad Eliyahu on a Euroleague Thursday night , is awaiting that opportunity . <p> " It makes me want to play back in Menora . The fans are awesome , and they all showed up here , which was really fun and gave us a lot of energy . I could n't imagine a full Menora . I 've seen it as a fan at a game , but I 've never actually played in front of a sold-out crowd , so I 'm excited . Hopefully , we can get back there at some point . But I 'm just happy for all the fans that showed up here . It just shows how much they love Maccabi . It was great seeing Israeli flags out there , so it was good . "
