<p> More Americans are leaning into their Christian faith in what some religious leaders and scholars are calling a " fourth Great Awakening . " <p> Bible sales in the United States have skyrocketed in 2024 , religious colleges are seeing enrollment boosts despite overall declines in higher education attendance and several states are pushing for Bible-based curriculum in public schools . Some Bible scholars believe this may mark a significant cultural shift . <p> " While it has been apparent to a few of us for some time , millions are now realizing that ' woke ' ideologies are , in fact , destructive attempts to re-found the nation according to a new civic religion which both parodies and persecutes Christianity , " Chad Pecknold , theologian and professor at The Catholic University of America , told the Daily Caller News Foundation . <p> Despite overall book sales increasing by only 1% compared to 2023 , Bible sales in the U.S. have reached an impressive 22% increase as of October 2024 , according to the Wall Street Journal . <p> The Cardinal Newman Society in October reported that enrollment at Catholic colleges has risen in 2024 despite an overall enrollment decrease at other institutions , with several schools such as Ave Maria University in Florida and Benedictine College in Kansas seeing record growth , increasing attendance by more than 20% over the last 10 years . <p> " There is a resurgence of Christianity among young people , " Wade Burleson , retired pastor and president of Istoria Ministries , told the DCNF . " I see what is happening as more of an Awakening . An Awakening occurs when the irreligious come to faith in Christ . " <p> Burleson pointed to several instances of young people coming into faith in doves in recent years , with hundreds of students being baptized on campuses across the nation , including several members of the four-time national champion Oklahoma University women 's softball team . <p> " There have been three Great Awakenings in America , and a few smaller ones , " Burleson continued . " I believe we are in the beginning of a fourth Great Awakening and it is a response to inflation ( financial panic ) , pandemics ( Covid ) , wars ( global ) , and the sudden death of stability in America . There is no anchor in life better than the Anchor of Hope , and when the ship of life is tossed to and fro , faith awakens . " <p> " Democrats , and the corporations and institutions they controlled , embraced this pseudo-civic religion in their attempt to take total control over the American republic , " Pecknold said . " The American people saw their totalitarian appetites on display in everything from forced vaccinations to extreme racialism to the redefinition of marriage and the denial of sexual difference , all under the ever-evolving banner of ' the Progress Flag . ' " <p> " This is when the Democrats were defeated so thoroughly on November 5th , it was not only seen as a political victory , but also as a religious victory : it was a repudiation of the ersatz civic religion that Democrats had used to re-found the country . " <p> Catholic voters played a pivotal role in the 2024 presidential election , making up approximately 25% of the vote and overwhelmingly siding with President-elect Donald Trump , with other Christian voters following suit . <p> A view of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in the Morningside Heights neighborhood of northern Manhattan on October 06 , 2024 in New York City . ( Photo by Roy Rochlin/Getty Images ) <p> Greg Boyd , theologian and Pastor at Woodland Hills Church in St. Paul , Minnesota is less convinced of this religious revival . <p> " My concern is that a lot of it seems to be wrapped up with nationalism , " Boyd told the DCNF . " And it concerns me because whenever the Christian faith has gotten too close to political power , it 's been transformed by the political power , and we have Christians trying to control others and conquer others , the same as we 've had throughout history . And in my opinion , that does n't look anything like what we find in the Gospel . " <p> Boyd pointed to examples of states like Texas , Louisiana and Oklahoma approving the implementation of Bible lessons into public school lessons . Texas ' law is meant to help " students to better understand the connection of history , art , community , literature , and religion on pivotal events " in history and Oklahoma 's is similarly meant " as an instructional support into the curriculum . " <p> " Where did Jesus ever impose himself on others ? " the pastor asked . <p> " I mean , I would love to see a revival in the country , " Boyd said . " The evidence of that would be , I would think , people become more Christ-like , they become more loving . They would be trying to turn the other cheek , trying to reach out across the aisle and build bridges instead of walls . And I do n't see any of that happening with the church as a whole . Seems like it 's kind of gone deeply into political polarization . " <p> Boyd agreed that many issues in politics have driven people to view current affairs through a religious lens . <p> Cultural issues such as abortion , gender ideology and diversity , equity and inclusion ( DEI ) have been hot topics dividing Americans ' opinions , especially religious Americans . The ongoing war in Gaza , as well as the hundreds of protests that spanned the U.S. in response , also impacted Christians ' perspective , with many viewing the apparent prosecution of Jews on college campuses as an infringement on religious freedom as a whole . <p> Church attendance among Christians remains relatively low in the United States , with only 30% of Protestants and 23% of Catholics attending church every week , according to a March Gallup poll . However , more Americans than ever are consuming religious content , with the Hallow prayer app becoming the first religious app to top Apple 's App Store in 2024 and Fr . Mike Schmitz 's Bible In A Year podcast consistently topping charts in recent years , according to National Review . <p> Young men in particular are maintaining their devotion to faith , with more Gen Z men identifying as Christian than women for the first time , according to the New York Times . <p> " We are currently seeing a kind of clarity about the civilizational conflict that ' woke ' ideologies provoked , " Pecknold told the DCNF . " In brief , the people are fed up with this fake religion , and even if they are n't Christian themselves , they 're realizing that Christianity provides a far better ' unwritten constitution ' for the nation than anti-Christian wokism can supply . There 's a simple realization at work here . " <p> " Christianity is an ordering principle which elevates and ennobles souls , families , and societies -- it 's inherently public , and can not be ' privatized , ' relegated to the margins , or separated from questions of education , heritage , public morality , family policy , law , or the aspirations of nations , " Pecknold said . " We still date time by the Incarnation because , deep down , everyone knows that Christianity is objectively true and good for all people -- it roots us in reality , it helps us to promote the truly good , and avoid those evils which cause so much suffering -- it elevates us by the Light of Christ . Public Christianity is literally what makes civilizational renewal possible . The fact that Americans are remembering this , and having the courage to state it , is a sign of great hope for the nation . " <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;2107;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours .
