<p> PEOPLE LOOK ON as smoke rises from a fire that broke out near Kibbutz Shamir in the Upper Galilee , as a result of a rocket attack from Lebanon , last week . The writer asks : What about securing the ability of our citizens to return to their homes in the North ? ( photo credit : AYAL MARGOLIN/FLASH90 ) <p> As Israel 's wary ceasefire with Hezbollah continues , there is only one path to success . Israel must break its pattern of indulgence , allowing diplomatic agreements to die amid a thousand infractions , as each little attack seems not worth triggering international opprobrium . And the US must support Israel aggressively , bullying the international community into allowing Israel to punish any violations , no matter how minor . <p> It happened during Oslo . It happened after America promised that the Gaza Disengagement would include a zero-tolerance policy for any violence from anywhere in the Strip . And it happened after the 2006 Hezbollah War . UN Security Council 1701 supposedly guaranteed peace in Southern Lebanon , with no armed forces other than the Lebanese Army rearming . Yet the Palestinian Authority , Hamas , Hezbollah , chipped away at the agreements , and Israel kept indulging them -- until disaster struck . <p> This time , after Hamas invaded on October 7 -- then Hezbollah joined and then the Houthis and other Iranian proxies bombed from afar , until Iran , finally and predictably , unleashed two unprecedented missile attacks -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , the IDF , the Americans , and the ever-feckless international community should have wised up . <p> The ceasefire will only last if Israel 's 80,000 northern evacuees can return home and rebuild , while Hezbollah terrorists avoid Southern Lebanon , knowing they 'll be crushed if they dare return . Mourners gather during the funeral of Hezbollah terrorists , who were killed during hostilities with Israeli forces , after a ceasefire agreement between the two parties took effect , in Maarakeh , southern Lebanon November 29 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/AZIZ TAHER ) <p> Trigger warning : Yes , my language is aggressive and my position is militant . But it 's remarkable that after fourteen months of war , not enough people realize that strength brings peace and weakness brings war , especially against jihadists . <h> Things to celebrate <p> I am a Fitzgeraldian Zionist -- as in F. Scott . I can hold two conflicting thoughts in my head . I can blame our military and political leaders for their October 7 failures , while encouraging them to take this victory lap . <p> True , for years they allowed Hezbollah to amass 150,000 rockets and a formidable fighting force . But , unlike with Hamas on October 7 , Israel 's leaders took that threat seriously enough to play their A-game : crushing Hezbollah while humiliating the terrorist group 's evil patrons in Iran . <p> REMEMBER SEPTEMBER 16 ? Hezbollah terrified us -- in ways Hamas never did , even on October 7 . We kept hearing that their fighters were professional , their missiles plentiful , Tel Aviv 's towers were vulnerable , and weeks-long electrical outages were possible . <p> Then boom -- actually beep ! With that first booming beeper , Israel changed everything . And no , my delicate friends warning that violence begets more violence , you 're wrong . These attacks were as surgical as it gets in warfare against jihadi maniacs who cower behind civilians . Besides , considering the many terrorist trigger fingers destroyed , that clever move reduced levels of violence worldwide -- now and in the future , especially considering the new junior jihadis who can not be spawned . <p> Systematically since then , Israel has degraded Hezbollah and demeaned its Iranian paymasters . Even The New York Times proclaimed on November 27 : " A Battered and Diminished Hezbollah Accepts a Cease-Fire . " Since then , with president-elect Donald Trump planning " maximum pressure " on Iran , with Syria 's Bashar Assad teetering , and with their favorite terrorists defeated , Iran 's mullahs are retreating . <p> The ceasefire " indicates the degree to which Iran is concerned and worried about its new vulnerability and the incoming Trump administration , " Paul Salem , a Lebanon expert at the Middle East Institute told the Times . <p> While thanking President Joe Biden and the Americans for the munitions and intelligence they provided generously , Israelis need to teach Biden 's successors what " taking the win " looks like . When Biden told Israel to " take the win " -- meaning accept simply resisting Iran 's April 13 attack -- he confused effective but momentary defense with the intimidating deterrence Israel needs to survive in its unforgiving neighborhood . <p> While many Americans acknowledge Israel 's impressive victory over Hezbollah , I have n't heard any of them regret their advice to slow down , avoid conflict , and try to appease Hezbollah . Similarly , as reservists in Gaza report that Hamas is reeling , having seen the IDF overrun Rafah with limited civilian casualties , few Americans admitted they were wrong for constantly trying to restrain Israel . <p> Such stubbornness amuses me as an Israeli , because we won anyway . But it terrifies me as an American historian . The unwillingness of people in power -- and the worldwide popcorn gallery -- to acknowledge mistakes prevents them from learning from them . <h> Where does Israel stand ? <p> HERE , THEN , is where we stand , as of this moment . <p> * Israel must keep pressure on Lebanon , and prevent Hezbollah from rearming and from flooding Southern Lebanon -- ever again . <p> * Israel and the US must keep pressure on Iran , and evaluate what pressure points would weaken the regime from within -- while assessing when it 's time to attack its nuclear project from without . <p> * And , learning from its successes , Israel must keep the pressure on Hamas in Gaza , hunting down terrorists while , in the spirit of the ceasefire , <p> * Starting to shift -- creating incentives for Hamas to free the hostages , which also means accounting for every last one , while allowing others from the Arab world to step in and start governing . <p> This way , Israel can ever so slowly start withdrawing and start lightening its grip , while controlling the Philadelphi corridor to protect smuggling , keeping the Netzarim crisscross corridor until stability is achieved , and never allow any Gazans to live within a kilometer of any Israeli villages ever again , or approach the border gate with impunity -- as they did for years , step by step wearing down the zero-tolerance for infractions policy Israel needs on its borders to survive . Never again is there -- now . <p> The writer , a senior fellow in Zionist thought at the Jewish People Policy Institute , is an American presidential historian . His latest book , To Resist the Academic Intifada : Letters to My Students on Defending the Zionist Dream , was just published .
