<h> A hearing will be held next Tuesday following the acceptance of a petition this Tuesday of a petition outlining allegations of discriminatory anti-Jewish hiring policies and practices . <p> People who took part in the protest remove the remnants of a protest encampment in support of Palestinians , that was broken down by police the previous night on the campus of University of California Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , in Los Angeles , California , US , May 2 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/CARLIN STIEHL ) <p> A petition alleging that the Cultural Affairs Commission of the University of California , Los Angeles Undergraduate Students Association Council actively avoided hiring Jews because of their assumed Zionist perspective was accepted by the USAC Judicial Board , according to a memorandum . <p> A preliminary hearing will be held on Tuesday for the petition filed by the editor-in-chief of Ha'Am , UCLA 's Jewish news magazine , Bella Brannon , on Monday against CAC Commissioner Alicia Verdugo.According to Ha'Am , the petition contended that every student who revealed their Jewish identity in their applications for CAC staff was rejected . One rejected applicant allegedly said they would need to observe Shabbat during the staff retreat , and another noted that as a Jew , one campus issue that was important to them was the right to express religious identity . <p> In an allegedly leaked internal communication published by Ha'Am , Verdugo allegedly warned subordinates that " lots of Zionists are applying -- please do your research when you look at applicants , and I will also share a document of a no-hire list during the retreat . " In another supposed leaked document , CAC laid out its hiring policy as reserving the right " to remove any staff member who dispels anti-blackness , colorism , racism , white supremacy , Zionism , xenophobia , homophobia , transphobia , sexism , misogyny , ableism , and any/all other hateful/bigoted ideologies . " Signs in support of Palestinians in Gaza are set up along with reinforcements to block the doorway of a building at an encampment after protesters were asked to leave by UCLA campus police at the University of California , Los Angeles , California , US , May 2 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/AUDE GUERRUCCI ) <p> Ha'Am noted that not only was the movement for the self-determination of the Jewish people in their historic homeland singled out among political movements to be included among forms of discrimination , but antisemitism was not mentioned in the list . The petition reportedly argued that the references to Zionism and the rejection patterns indicated that Jews were not hired because it was assumed that because they were Jewish , they were Zionists . <p> A UCLA spokesperson said the institution condemned all forms of discrimination and was reviewing the complaint " as it is absolutely critical that every single member of our community is evaluated fairly for opportunities within student government . " <p> USAC leadership was unable to comment on the proceedings because it is an ongoing case .. <h> Jewish Faculty at UCLA 's statement <p> Jewish Faculty at UCLA , which claims to represent Jewish and non-Jewish faculty at the institution , said on social media last Wednesday that CAC 's use of the term Zionist was code for being Jewish , and the word was being twisted " into a slur to exclude Jews . " Former secretary of state Mike Pompeo weighed into the situation by arguing on X/Twitter on Tuesday that " of the many examples of antisemitism driven by campus DEI , UCLA may be the worst . " <p> Ha'Am noted that the Jewish magazine had previously accused Verdugo of denying access to four of its Jewish reporters to a November CAC event protesting the prohibition of on-campus encampments.On October 9 , in the wake of the October 7 massacre , Verdugo issued an official CAC statement declaring that it would continue to provide unwavering support to Palestinian " liberation . " " We also stand on the grounds that decolonization is not a metaphor , " read a CAC Instagram statement . " Thus , we honor the Palestinians on the frontlines taking their land and sovereignty back ! From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free . " <p> The CAC Instagram post also recommended that followers read the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine terrorist organization 's Strategy for the Liberation of Palestine . PFLP is designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the US State Department.Verdugo emphasized in the statement that the condemnation of Israel was not mutually exclusive with condemnations of antisemitism and assured that " Judaism is separate from the political movement of Zionism. "
