<h> UN watchdog to conduct probe into sexual misconduct allegations against top international prosecutor <h> The Associated Press has learned that a United Nations watchdog has been selected to lead an external probe into allegations of sexual misconduct against the top prosecutor of the International Criminal Court <p> THE HAGUE , Netherlands ( AP ) -- A United Nations watchdog has been selected to lead an external probe into allegations of sexual misconduct against the top prosecutor of the International Criminal Court , The Associated Press learned Tuesday . The move will likely generate conflict of interest concerns owing to the prosecutor 's wife 's past work for the oversight body . <p> Chief prosecutor Karim Khan provided updates on the court 's politically sensitive investigations into war crimes and atrocities in Ukraine , Gaza and Venezuela among other conflict areas during the institution 's annual meeting this week in The Hague , Netherlands . <p> But hanging over the gathering of the ICC 's 124 member states are allegations against Khan himself . <p> An AP investigation in October found that at the same time the ICC was readying a warrant for the arrest of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , Khan was facing internal accusations that he tried to coerce a female aide into a sexual relationship and groped her against her will over a period of several months . <p> The Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute , which oversees the ICC , previously announced an external probe into the allegations but had n't said who it would select to conduct the probe . <p> At this week 's meeting , P ? ivi Kaukoranta , a Finnish diplomat currently heading the ICC 's oversight body , told delegates that she has settled on the U.N . ' s Office of Internal Oversight Services , two diplomats told the AP on the condition of anonymity to discuss the closed-door talks . <p> Two respected human rights group last month already expressed concern about the possible selection of the U.N . because Khan 's wife , a prominent human rights attorney , worked at the agency in Kenya in 2019 and 2020 investigating sexual harassment . <p> The International Federation for Human Rights and Women 's Initiatives for Gender Justice , in a joint statement , said Khan should be suspended while the probe is being carried out and called for " thoroughly vetting the chosen investigative body , firm , or institution to ensure it is free from conflicts of interest and possesses demonstrated expertise . " <p> What they described as Khan 's " close relationship " with the U.N . agency deserved added scrutiny , the two groups said . <p> " We strongly recommend ensuring that these concerns are openly and transparently addressed before assigning the mandate to the OIOS , " the two organizations said . <p> Kaukoranta declined to comment when asked about the investigation by the AP on Tuesday on the sidelines of the annual meeting . The U.N . and Khan 's attorney did n't immediately respond to a request for comment . <p> The accusations against Khan surfaced when two court employees in whom the alleged victim confided came forward with the accusation in May , a few weeks before Khan sought arrest warrants against Netanyahu , his defense minister and three Hamas leaders on war crimes charges . A three-judge panel last month signed off on those charges for the Israelis and the sole remaining Hamas leader whose death from Israel 's bombing campaign has n't been confirmed . <p> AP reported that Khan traveled frequently with the woman after transferring her to his office from another department at the ICC 's headquarters . During one foreign trip , Khan allegedly asked the woman to rest with him on a hotel bed and then " sexually touched her , " according to whistleblower documents shared with the court 's watchdog and seen by the AP . Later , he came to her room at 3 a.m. and knocked on the door for 10 minutes . <p> Other allegedly nonconsensual behavior cited in the documents included locking the door of his office and sticking his hand in her pocket . He also allegedly asked her on several occasions to go on a vacation together . <p> After the two co-workers reported the alleged behavior , the court 's internal watchdog interviewed the woman but she opted against filing a complaint due to her distrust of the watchdog , according to the AP investigation . Khan was never questioned and the watchdog 's inquiry was closed within five days . <p> Although the 900-employee ICC has long had a " zero-tolerance " policy on sexual harassment , an outside review of the court 's inner-workings in 2020 found an unacceptable level of predatory behavior by male bosses , a lack of women in senior positions and inadequate mechanisms for dealing with complaints and protecting whistleblowers . <p> " There is a general reluctance , if not extreme fear , among many staff to report any alleged act of misconduct or misbehavior " by a senior official , the experts concluded in their 348-page report . " The perception is that they are all immune . " <p> Although the ICC 's policies have been updated since the report , a 2024 internal reported obtained by AP showed that 30% of respondents to a staff survey reported they had experienced discrimination , abuse or harassment in the previous 12 months . <p> While the court 's watchdog could not determine wrongdoing , it nonetheless urged Khan in a memo to minimize contact with the woman to protect the rights of all involved and safeguard the court 's integrity . <p> Complicating any truth-seeking investigation have been attempts by Israel and others to undermine the court 's credibility . <p> Under Khan , the ICC has become more assertive in combating crimes against humanity and along the way it has added to a growing list of enemies . <p> Last September , following the opening of a probe into Russian atrocities in Ukraine , the court suffered a debilitating cyberattack that left staff unable to work for weeks . It also hired an intern who was later criminally charged in the U.S. with being a Russian spy . <p> Israel has also been waging its own influence campaign ever since the ICC recognized Palestine as a member and in 2015 opened a preliminary investigation into what the court referred to as " the situation in the State of Palestine . " <p> London 's The Guardian newspaper and several Israeli news outlets reported this summer that Israel 's intelligence agencies for the past decade have allegedly targeted senior ICC staff , including putting Khan 's predecessor under surveillance and showing up at her house with envelopes stuffed with cash to discredit her . <p> Netanyahu himself , in the days leading up to Khan 's announcement of war crimes charges , called on the world 's democracies " to use all the means at their disposal " to block the court from what he called an " outrage of historic proportions . " <p> Goodman reported from Miami . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
