<p> Israeli forces in Gaza have deployed quadcopter drones , playing the sounds of crying babies and distressed women , to draw Palestinians out of their homes in open areas where they can be targeted . " In mid-April , we were informed that Israeli quadcopters were emitting bizarre sounds , including baby sounds or women screaming , " Maha Hussaini , Euro-Med Human Rights monitor , told Al Jazeera . <p> " I went personally to Nuseirat and I interviewed several Palestinians separately and the testimonies were almost identical , " she said . <p> The drones were " playing sounds of screaming women " to " lure citizens out of their homes and to find someone to shoot , " she said . This was confirmed by the hospital reports . <p> " Quadcopters were emitting baby sounds , playing sounds of screaming women . " <p> Palestinians in Gaza say Israel has been using small quadcopter drones , equipped with loudspeakers , to lure them out of their homes and then shoot them . **37;1405;TOOLONG <p> " There were cases of people getting injured by these quad captors after going out to figure out what was the sound to try to help , " she said . <p> Nuseirat resident Mohammad Nabhan recalled hearing a woman shouting " help " alongside the cries of a baby . On realising that the sounds emanated from a quadcopter , Mr Nabhan warned his cousin , " Do n't fall for it ; it 's a sound system . " Abu Anas Al-Shahrour , a neighbour , heard the cries of distress and went out to help but was shot in the head . <p> Other incidents across Gaza , in Khan Younis , and the occupied West Bank , included recordings of a child crying , " I want my mother , " and threats warning Palestinians " will die " if they resist . <p> Quadcopters , remote-controlled drones , have been extensively used by Israeli forces since the escalation of hostilities on October 7 . These devices have been utilised for surveillance , individual targeting , and crowd dispersal . In January , witnesses reported quadcopters opening fire on hundreds of civilians who had gathered to collect food on al-Rasheed Street in Gaza City . <p> The drones ' sound systems have also broadcast Hebrew and Arabic songs , sounds of tank movements , and even the familiar calls of local vendors . <p> The Health Ministry in Gaza has reported nearly 45,000 deaths and the entire population has been displaced amid relentless Israeli bombardment . Civilians are facing acute shortages of food , water , and medical supplies . Hospitals , schools , and homes lie in ruins , and the potential spread of disease in overcrowded shelters looms large . <p> This method of psychological warfare has drawn sharp criticism from human rights groups . The " General 's Plan " , allegedly aiming to depopulate northern Gaza under the guise of fighting Hamas , has been labelled a war crime by the ICC , leading to the issuance of an arrest warrant for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
