<h> Share on Social Media <p> The New York Film Critics Circle is announcing its awards for the films of 2024 on Tuesday . TheWrap will update the list of winners as they are revealed . <p> Marianne Jean-Baptiste won the Best Actress award for her scorching performance in Mike Leigh 's " Hard Truths , " while Adrien Brody won Best Actor for " The Brutalist . " <p> Kieran Culkin was named best supporting actor for his role in Jesse Eisenberg 's " A Real Pain . " Carole Kane was honored as best supporting actress for " Between the Temples . " <p> As the first major critics group to announce its awards , the NYFCC was able to give a little attention to its winners in a year in which few of the major categories have strong frontrunners . In the acting categories , Culkin and Brody are considered locks for an Oscar nomination , while Jean-Baptiste is on the bubble and Kane is a real longshot . <p> " No Other Land , " the documentary filmed over five years by Israeli and Palestinian filmmakers in Gaza , won the award for non-fiction film a little more than 12 hours after it won in the same category at the Gotham Awards . Payal Kapadia 's " All We Imagine As Light " did the same thing in the Best International Film category . <p> Sean Baker , on the other hand , won the screenplay award for " Anora " the day after his film came into the Gotham Awards as the most-nominated movie but failed to win anything . <p> Annie Baker 's " Janet Planet " was named the year 's best first film . Jomo Fray won the cinematography award for the way he implemented director RaMell Ross ' point-of-view approach in " Nickel Boys . " <p> Since 1938 , the winner of the NYFCC has gone on to win Best Picture more than two dozen times , but the two groups have agreed more infrequently in recent years . The last time the critics chose the eventual Oscar winner was 12 years ago , when " The Artist " won both awards ; since then , the NYFCC has gone for the likes of " Zero Dark Thirty , " " Boyhood , " " Carol , " " La La Land , " " Roma , " " First Cow , " " Drive My Car , " " Tar " and a pair of Martin Scorsese movies , " The Irishman " and last year 's " Killers of the Flower Moon . " <p> Over the last 20 years , the NYFCC winner has been nominated for the top Oscar 17 times , with the only exceptions being " United 93 " in 2007 , " Carol " in 2016 and " First Cow " in 2020 . <p> The New York Film Critics Circle consists of 45 critics based in New York City . The group was founded in 1935 and has been voting on the year 's best films since 1936 . Next year marks the organization 's 90th anniversary , a milestone that will be celebrated when the NYFCC holds its awards ceremony on Jan. 8 , 2025 . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Steve Pond has been writing about film , music , pop culture and the entertainment industry for more than 40 years . He has served as TheWrap 's awards editor and executive editor , awards since joining the company in 2009 . Steve began his career writing about music for the Los Angeles Times , where he remained a contributor for more ...
