<p> Defense Minister Israel Katz said that he intends to hold a disciplinary procedure against IDF Spokesperson Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari , who criticized the " Feldstein bill , " calling it " very dangerous to the IDF " during a press conference on Wednesday evening . <p> Katz criticized Hagari , saying , " The IDF Spokesperson 's criticism of the political echelon and the legislative process in the Knesset is a serious and extraordinary phenomenon , completely outside of its authority and what is permitted and expected from someone in uniform in a democratic regime . " <p> " I intend to take disciplinary action against him as soon as possible to draw the necessary conclusions . " <p> Hamas managed to locate the body of Muhammad Deif , the former military leader of Hamas , under the rubble of an airstrike that eliminated him in the area of Al-Mawasi and buried it in secret , Israeli state broadcaster KAN reported on Wednesday , citing Palestinian sources . <p> According to KAN 's source , Hamas secretly buried Deif 's body in an undisclosed location without publicly announcing the location . <p> The video features a simulated image of Netanyahu against the backdrop of Hamas tunnels in Gaza and is shown to be saying , " My name is Yair Netanyahu , 33 years old , From Jerusalem ... uh , Miami , Caesarea . I 've been here in Hamas captivity with almost no food or water , without seeing the sun or breathing fresh air . " <h> Blinken said he would not speculate about " what 's going to happen in the future " and that he can only talk about the clear interests of the parties . <p> Fundamentally , both Lebanon and Israel want to continue the ceasefire , according to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken , who addressed reporters on Wednesday afternoon during a NATO news conference in Brussels . <p> Blinken indicated the oversight mechanism operated by France and the US is operating as intended to assess allegations of violations . <p> The current situation in Syria has the purpose of weakening Syria and its allies in the Middle East 's " Axis of Resistance , " Iran 's Armed Forces Chief of Staff , Major-General Mohammad Bagheri , said on Tuesday , according to the Islamic Republic 's news agency , IRNA.
