<p> Thirty-eight Vietnamese tourists have reportedly disappeared in South Korea after arriving in the country through the southern Jeju island last month . <p> The tourists were part of a group of around 90 tourists who arrived on the island on 14 November . However , 38 of them disappeared during the final stop of their itinerary before they were set to depart to Vietnam , officials said . <p> The rest of the group members boarded the return flight but those who did not have been reported missing to the authorities . <p> Foreign tourists in the resort island can stay up to 30 days without a visa under the visa waiver programme . The programme , which is part of the Special Act on the Establishment of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province , allows people from 64 countries to stay on the island for up to 30 days without a visa . <p> However , travellers can not travel to other parts of South Korea , such as Seoul or Busan , unless they have a valid visa for the mainland . <p> The missing tourists are only allowed to stay on the island till 14 December under the visa waiver programme and will be considered illegal tourists after the deadline . <p> The Jeju Immigration Office said it is working to find the missing tourists and reviewing CCTV footage of the hotel and streets around it . <p> " We are currently analyzing closed-circuit ( CC ) TV to find out where the Vietnamese tourists disappeared , " an official from the Jeju Immigration and Foreign Affairs Agency said . <p> " We plan to organize a Jeju visa-free fugitive arrest team to start a full-fledged arrest . " <p> This is not the first time tourists have been reported missing on the island . Many of these situations involve individuals overstaying their permitted time or attempting to remain on the island illegally , taking advantage of Jeju 's visa-free entry programme . <p> In 2022 , at least 55 Thai tourists who arrived in Jeju island with a package tour group disappeared during their holiday . They were suspected of taking illegal jobs in various parts of the country . <p> Project Sunrise , Qantas 's bid to conquer the " tyranny of distance " , inches closer , with the airline pressing ahead with plans to launch non-stop services from both Sydney and Melbourne to London in 2026 . <p> President-elect Donald Trump is demanding the immediate release of Israeli hostages still being held in Gaza , saying that if they are not freed before he is sworn into office for a second term there will be " HELL TO PAY . " " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . It was not immediately clear whether Trump was threatening to directly involve the U.S. military in Israel 's ongoing campaign against Hamas in Gaza . <p> China announced Tuesday it is banning exports to the United States of gallium , germanium , antimony and other key high-tech materials with potential military applications , as a general principle , lashing back at U.S. limits on semiconductor-related exports . The Chinese Commerce Ministry announced the move after the Washington expanded its list of Chinese companies subject to export controls on computer chip-making equipment , software and high-bandwidth memory chips . <p> People were seen blocking a military vehicle as it tried to leave an area near South Korea 's parliament late Tuesday . Protesters gathered in front of the Parliament building after South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol declared martial law , vowing to eliminate " anti-state " forces as he struggles against an opposition that controls the country 's parliament and that he accuses of sympathizing with communist North Korea . <p> Yoon Suk Yeol 's decision comes after parliament voted to block the order , with the speaker of the National Assembly , Woo Won Shik , declaring it " invalid " and saying politicians would " protect democracy with the people " . The president had said in a TV address on Tuesday night he was putting the military in temporary charge to defend the constitutional order and " eradicate the despicable pro-North Korean anti-state forces " . <p> The star won critical acclaim as 007 in 2006 's Casino Royale but its 2008 follow up left critics cold , before a return to form with Sam Mendes ' 2012 effort , Skyfall . Speaking to The Hollywood Reporter , Craig explained that industrial action in Hollywood led to him improvising several scenes , a process he described as a , " f**king nightmare " . " Paul Haggis did a pass on the script , then he went off and joined a picket line , and we did n't have writers , so we did n't have a script . We probably should never have gone and started production , ... " <p> WILMINGTON , Delaware ( Reuters ) -A Delaware judge ruled on Monday that Tesla CEO Elon Musk still is not entitled to receive a $56 billion compensation package despite shareholders of the electric vehicle company voting in June to reinstate it . The ruling by the judge , Chancellor Kathaleen McCormick of the Court of Chancery , follows her January decision that called the pay package excessive and rescinded it , surprising investors , and cast uncertainty over Musk 's future at the world 's most valuable carmaker . In a post on X after the decision , Musk said that " shareholders should control company votes , not judges . "
