<p> Though I have spent many years as a journalist , my other profession as a teacher is the closest to my heart ; when I studied biology and its teaching methods at university , I knew that I would become one . I became excited about getting a job in education , but unfortunately I was not lucky at first -- because I live in Gaza , that besieged area on which Israel has imposed many sanctions that have led to a reduction in job opportunities and an increase in the unemployment rate . But I felt I had to meet this challenge that was inside me : I would become a teacher ; I would practice this profession . <p> I started teaching at home with private lessons . I used to work 12 hours a day to teach students , in both the mornings and the evenings . Then , five years ago , I got the opportunity I was waiting for : I became a science teacher for the fifth and sixth grades at the Rosary Sisters School in Gaza City . Those years held the happiest moments of my life -- a lively routine full of giving , passion , and love . <p> Waking up early , at 6 a.m. , seeing the streets filled with students from all the schools , the traffic police stopping cars so that the students could pass safely -- it made me happy . I live in the southern Gaza Strip , and the school in Gaza City is in the north . It took me about half an hour to get there every day ; in those 30 minutes I would look out the window a lot and see these students in different types of school uniforms , and watch their conversations and their laughter with one another . The streets were so vibrant during the school year . <p> Advertisement <p> When I arrived at school , the students would run toward me to hug and welcome me , offering many nice comments on my daily appearance . I was interested in being an elegant teacher because I thought it would help my students love my subject . I felt that the student needs to love their teacher to love the material , especially when it comes to science . It is not a simple subject and often requires long explanations . These students must accept this flood of information from someone they love . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Our favorite place at school is the science lab . More than any other place , it used to unite the students and teachers as colleagues when we conducted our many scientific experiments together . Unfortunately , we had an appointment for classes in the lab on Oct. 8 , 2023 ; the war deprived us of it . <p> Advertisement <p> Wars are the biggest enemy of all students . When we heard the sounds of warplanes roaming the skies of Gaza , we were worried . The students were sitting under the chairs , and we were calming them down by telling them that there would be no bombing . Many of them asked us repeatedly if there might be a war in Gaza . Then each one of them would start talking about their experience in previous wars and express their intense hatred for war and destruction . I tried comforting them by telling them that there would be no more wars , and that what happened in the 2021 war would not be repeated . Unfortunately , we lived through a difficult conflict then . The school was severely damaged , and my science lab was , too . We returned for the next year later than other schools . When the current war started , the administration had not even finished restoring and repairing the school from the previous one . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The students expressed their hatred for the war from that first moment , complaining that it would force them to stay at home and deprive them of school for several days . It was so nice last year ; I felt that these children had very mature minds . They were following the news a lot . Every morning they would express their concern about the tragic events in Jerusalem and the West Bank and say that they did not want this war to move to Gaza . We all wanted to continue our lives in peace . They wanted to finish the school year without a war , or anything political that would hinder their studies . <p> Advertisement <p> On Oct. 5 last year , it was a Thursday . We put together a work plan for Monday , because Friday was an official holiday . Saturday , Oct. 7 , was an annual holiday for our school that commemorates its founding . Sunday , Oct. 8 , was the official holiday for Christian schools in Gaza , and we were supposed to return to school on Monday . We were very happy to have three days off , because we had just finished the first month 's exams and we needed a rest . But that Saturday , Oct. 7 , at about half past 6 in the evening , we heard the sounds of rockets being launched . Many of my students sent me messages asking me : What is this ? What is happening ? After about two hours we understood what had happened in Israel and what was happening in Gaza , and it was all very difficult and tragic . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> That first week , studies were suspended in all of Gaza , and the students have not been back to school since . The 2022 -- 2023 school year ended without the students returning ; instead they spent their time in tents , displaced and homeless , far from their homes . Many of them , though , did leave their homes carrying their school bags , and have spent the past year studying without a teacher . The families are in a state of great sadness , and many believe the Israeli army is carrying out a policy of enforced ignorance -- depriving students of studying , destroying their schools and homes , and killing hundreds of students and teachers . <p> In the second year of the war though , parents ' resolve to keep their children learning has survived . Individual educational initiatives began to appear in various displacement camps ; many set up a teaching tent for children in primary school to learn basic subjects including mathematics , English , and Arabic . The ongoing war makes any activity for children seem dangerous to their lives , because the bombing does not stop , and it targets such a wide variety of areas . But some students enjoy the lessons as a break in their daily routine in the tents . They are tired of waiting in lines for water , food , and bread . They want to feel like children who have the right to education . They go to the teaching tents , some of them barefoot ( they no longer have shoes ) , their clothes worn out . They sit on the ground , as they do not have school desks , save for a lucky few . All that sitting in the wrong way and writing on the ground tires their backs . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> I have often walked between the tents and seen these children . When I talk to them , they tell me that school has a different place in their hearts . Some of them said , " I miss waking up early . I want those days to come back . " " I would go with my classmates who waited for me in front of the house . We would take our lessons and wait for break time to play . " " I miss going home and having my mother wait for us to eat lunch together , review our lessons , and be safe and warm in our home . " Some of them are in the upper grades , not the first or second , and they do not benefit from the basic lessons that are the only ones available . They feel bored with the classes , believing that there is a lot of information that they are missing . There is no teaching for their more advanced academic level . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Related From Slate <p> I met a 10-year-old girl named Salma who is in the sixth grade and has been displaced from the north to one of the UNRWA schools here . She spoke with great dissatisfaction about the educational tents . She misses the science lessons that she loves . She knows how to read and write in Arabic and wants to learn higher skills , at the level of her studies . She worries that crowding children inside the small tents helps to spread epidemics . She also sees these spaces as unsuitable for both the summer , because they get very hot , and the winter , when they do not protect from the cold . <p> Advertisement <p> Salma says that she misses the security of her old life ; her passion for education has become very low . She is afraid that the war will continue and that she will therefore lose many years of schooling . Salma wants to be a doctor in the future , and she is very afraid of being ignorant of science ; " I do not know what our fault is in all this , as children , that we should have to miss out . I want to go back to my school . I miss my teachers and my lessons . I do not want to stay in the tent without an education . " <p> Advertisement <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> The Ministry of Education in Ramallah has tried to save each school year by offering online teaching , but this has not been easy to access for tens of thousands of students in Gaza who live in tents without good internet connections . The possibility ultimately has become more of a burden on students . They search for the internet , desperate to follow lessons , take exams , and get results in order to pass their grade levels without needing to repeat them again . Parents feel so much fatigue . The lack of internet means that even when their children find a connection , they are often on their own , and the parents ca n't follow along to know what the kids ' lessons are or where they are in their schooling . <p> As a teacher , I can not communicate with my students , wherever they may be in Gaza . I do not know where they are . I was able to reach a few of them who have been able to survive the war and travel to Egypt . But even these children are still suffering , far from Gaza . They talked to me a lot about their memories of school . They dream of returning to it even for one day . They feel that their childhood was stolen during the war . They asked me many times if the school was OK or not . I had to tell them the truth , which is that last December we learned that it was severely damaged , and a number of buildings were bombed , including the theater and the high school students ' building . The Israeli army also burned the library and bulldozed the schoolyard , which had a rest area , a soccer field , and a basketball court . <p> Advertisement <p> I have been teaching over the internet when I can . I try to help my students by explaining science lessons weekly to those in sixth , seventh , and eighth grades in particular , because they do not benefit much from the Ministry of Education program . As a teacher , I am very worried about the future of these students . All the initiatives and attempts to keep kids learning are not enough to save their education so long as the war is ongoing . The bombing and destruction machine is still working . We are still losing hundreds of children , who are also students . The war is destroying all health , education , religion , humanity , and the very Palestinian presence on their land . Many parents say that they live their lives for the future of their children . But there is so little hope for tomorrow . The war has destroyed that future .
