<h> ' You are not alone ' : The shared pain of the US-Israel hostage crisis - editorial <p> Ronen and Orna Neutra , parents of US-Israeli citizen Omer Neutra held hostage in Gaza since October 7 attack by Hamas , speak on Day 3 of the Republican National Convention ( RNC ) , at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee , Wisconsin , US , July 17 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/JEENAH MOON ) <p> The heartbreak emanating from the Hamas attack on October 7 continues to create fresh wounds . <p> On Monday , the IDF announced the death of Capt . Omer Maxim Neutra , 21 . Until now , it had been believed that Neutra , a tank platoon commander in the 7th Armored Brigade 's 77th Battalion , was alive and being held hostage . However , according to the announcement , his body was abducted by Hamas along with members of his tank crew . <p> Neutra 's parents , Ronen and Orna , became high-profile advocates for their son and all of the hostages held in Gaza over the last 14 months , often speaking at public events and meeting top officials in Jerusalem and Washington . <p> The announcement of Netura 's death came two days after the dramatic release by Hamas of a propaganda video in which hostage Edan Alexander described the hell that he and his fellow hostages were living through and pleaded for their release . <p> Alexander , a Golani Brigade soldier stationed at Nirim near the Gaza border , was abducted by Hamas on October 7 . Besides being soldiers on active duty on that date , what unites the stories of Neutra and Alexander is that they were both American citizens -- lone soldiers who came to Israel by choice to serve in the army of the Jewish people . The mother of Israeli hostage Edan Alexander hugs an organizer at a pro-Israel rally , nearly one year after Hamas ' October 7 , 2023 attack in southern Israel , in the Manhattan borough of New York City , US October 6 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Stephani Spindel ) <h> Before time runs out <p> Neutra , born in Manhattan and raised in Long Island , joined the IDF after spending a gap year in Israel . Born in Tel Aviv , Alexander grew up in Tenafly , New Jersey , and joined Golani after graduating high school in 2022 . <p> Five other US citizens are still unaccounted for and presumed to be held alive by Hamas . They are all symbols of the strong bond between Israel and the US and the values of freedom and democracy that they share . <p> As such , the Biden administration has gone above and beyond to push for their release and the release of all of the hostages . During this transition period ahead of the January 20 inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump , it 's imperative that the ball is not dropped and that both teams work in coordination to probe every possible avenue to secure a deal . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's wife , Sara , emphasized that importance when she met with Trump on Sunday in Miami . She wrote on Instagram that she had " raised with the president the immense suffering our country has endured since October 7 and the inhumanity of the Hamas terrorists ... I emphasized the urgent need to act for their the hostages ' release and swift return . " <p> In his video message , Alexander called on Trump to " use your influence and the full power of the United States to negotiate for our freedom ... I do not want to end up dead like my fellow US citizen Hersh Goldberg-Polin -- who Hamas killed in September . " <p> Alexander 's father , Adi , speaking at a rally in New York on Sunday , appealed to both Biden and Trump , urging the former to negotiate a deal " before it 's too late " and advising Trump not to wait until taking office in January " to make an impact . " <p> To their credit , the US leaders seemed to have internalized that message . Adi Alexander said Trump 's team told him they were " shoulder-to-shoulder with the current administration to resolve the issue . " <p> US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan told CBS on Sunday that there had been good coordination between the Biden and Trump teams about " all aspects " of the Middle East crisis . <p> " This is how it should be in a transition . This is what we 're going to keep driving for every day that we have left in office , " he said . <p> These efforts are being made because Americans , like Israelis , cherish life and will go to extreme means to rescue their citizens . <p> The Post 's Hannah Sarisohn reported that Adi Alexander told the attendees of the Sunday rally that " the world is watching . To everyone listening -- friends , neighbors , Americans , and Israelis -- please amplify our voices and call on your leaders to secure a deal . Call on them to act now . We can not afford to wait , " he said as supporters chanted , " You are not alone ! " <p> With the US 's deep investment in securing all of the hostages ' release , Israel indeed knows that it 's not alone .
