<h> This year , Arab-American political power came to the fore <p> Arab Americans hold a vigil at the Islamic Center of America for the victims of a series of attacks in Lebanon , in Dearborn , Michigan on September 20 , 2024 Rebecca Cook/Reuters <p> One of the major political developments in the United States that has gotten little attention in the wake of the Democrats ' astounding loss in the November 5 elections is the success of Arab American political organising . <p> A new generation of political activists has emerged that has earned representation in unprecedented numbers and impact for the 3.5-million-strong Arab-American community in elected and appointed political offices . It also put Arab Americans on the electoral map for the first time by launching the Uncommitted movement during the Democratic primaries and making a foreign policy issue -- Israel 's genocide in Gaza -- a national moral issue . <p> The Democratic Party underestimated the power of this new generation and the intensity of citizen anger , which cost it dearly in the election . <p> What happened in the Arab American community is a vintage all-American tale . They , like other communities , started their pursuit of political impact as a low-profile immigrant group who became dynamic citizens after political developments threatened their wellbeing and motivated them to take action . <p> Advertisement <p> Arab American mobilisation traces its beginnings to small-scale participation in Jesse Jackson 's 1984 and 1988 presidential campaigns for the Democratic Party . Jackson was the first serious presidential candidate to include Arab Americans as Democratic Party convention delegates , part of his Rainbow Coalition of " the white , the Hispanic , the Black , the Arab , the Jew , the woman , the Native American , the small farmer , the businessperson , the environmentalist , the peace activist , the young , the old , the lesbian , the gay , and the disabled who make up the American quilt " . <p> His campaign gave momentum to voter registration drives within the Arab American community , which continued in the following three decades . By 2020 , nearly 90 percent of Arab Americans were registered to vote . By 2024 , the Arab American voter block -- in its expansive coalition with other groups -- had grown large enough to impact outcomes in critical swing states , especially Michigan and Pennsylvania . <p> The attacks of 9/11 and the subsequent backlash motivated Arab Americans even more to engage in meaningful politics . Many members of the community refused to live in fear , trying to avoid the intimidation and smears that had long kept their parents and grandparents subdued and quiescent politically . <p> As Omar Kurdi , founder of Arab Americans of Cleveland , told me , " We were no longer silent because we saw the dangers to us of being quiet and politically inactive . We refused to live in fear of politics . Since then , we have been proud , confident , and active in public . We no longer accept crumbs , but want our share of the pie , and we understand now how we can work for that . " <p> Advertisement <p> As a result , over the past two decades , Arab Americans have entered the public sphere and politics at all levels : from local , city , and county positions to state and federal ones . <p> Elected officials say they succeeded because their constituents knew and trusted them . Candidates who won state and national congressional seats -- like Rashida Tlaib in Michigan -- inspired hundreds of younger Arab Americans to enter the political fray . <p> Successful experiences in city politics educated newcomers on how they could impact decision-making , improve their own lives , and serve the entire community . They mastered locally the basics of politics , one Ohio activist told me , " like lobbying , bringing pressure , protesting , educating the public , achieving consensus , and creating coalitions based on shared values , problems , and goals " . <p> All of this momentum , built up over the years , coalesced into the Uncommitted movement in 2024 . As the Biden administration unconditionally supported Israel to carry out genocidal violence in Palestine and Lebanon , Arab-American activists moved to use their newfound leverage as voters in electoral politics . <p> They joined like-minded social justice activists from other groups that mainstream political parties had long taken for granted -- including Muslim Americans , Blacks , Hispanics , youth , progressive Jews , churches , and unions -- and sent a strong message during the primaries that they would not support Biden 's re-election bid unless he changed his position on Gaza . <p> The campaign hoped that tens of thousands of voters in the primaries would send the Democrats a big message by voting " uncommitted " , but in fact , hundreds of thousands of Democrats did so across half a dozen critical states . These numbers were enough to send 30 Uncommitted delegates to the Democratic National Convention in August , where they could lobby their colleagues to shape the party 's national platform . <p> Advertisement <p> One activist involved in the process told me they convinced 320 of the other 5,000 delegates to support their demand for a party commitment to a Gaza ceasefire and arms embargo on Israel -- not enough to change the party position , but enough to prove that working from inside the political system over time could move things in a better direction . <p> Intergenerational support and motivation were big factors in the success of the Uncommitted movement . Arab American Institute Executive Director Maya Berry , who has been involved in such activities for three decades , told me that Arab Americans were always in political positions , but in small numbers , so they had little impact . However , they learned how the system works and provided valuable insights when the time came this year to act . She mentioned Abbas Alawiyeh as an example , who co-chairs the Uncommitted National Movement and worked as a congressional staffer for many years . <p> The Uncommitted movement 's precise contribution to the Democratic Party 's defeat is hotly debated right now . One activist told me the movement " placed Arab Americans at the centre of Democratic Party politics , led the progressives , helped Harris lose in swing states , and nationally brought attention to Gaza , divestment , and moral issues in ways we had never been able to do previously . " <p> All this occurs in uncharted territory , with no clarity if Arab Americans can influence both the Democratic and Republican parties who might now compete for their vote . <p> One Arab-American activist in his 30s added , " We are liberated from the Democrats who took us for granted , and we Arab Americans are now a swing vote officially . " <p> Advertisement <p> Other activists I spoke to thought the election experience could set the stage for a larger movement to counter the pro-Israel lobby AIPAC , though that would require conquering the next hurdle of establishing Political Action Committees ( PACs ) and raising substantial funds . <p> That is a future possibility . For now , it is important to recognise that a national-level Arab-American political effort has been born from the fires and devastation of the US-Israeli genocide in Palestine and Lebanon . Whether it can improve the wellbeing of Arab Americans and all Americans will be revealed in the years ahead . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
