<p> Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis , criticism , and advice out there , delivered to your inbox daily . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has threatened to implement a slate of controversial policies in his second term , including military strikes on Mexican drug cartels , restrictions on abortion pills , a new " Muslim ban , " immigration raids , and mass deportations . Any one of these moves is likely to bring tens of thousands of protesters onto the streets . Trump has made it clear he will meet opposition with force . A major player in that crackdown will be the Federal Protective Service , a little-known but powerful law-enforcement agency that the Heritage Foundation 's Project 2025 identifies as key to quashing dissent . Congress , as well as state and local authorities , must act urgently to prevent its weaponization against the president 's political opponents . <p> The FPS is part of the Department of Homeland Security . Its officers carry guns and make arrests just like other police -- with the difference being that Congress has empowered the agency to bring in additional forces from among the department 's 90,000 other law-enforcement officers . The homeland security secretary can assign those officers to work directly for the FPS at a moment 's notice , augmenting its police force with huge numbers of personnel who have received little more than cursory training to execute domestic law-enforcement functions . <p> The agency was at the heart of the heavy-handed response to racial-justice demonstrations in Portland , Oregon , in 2020 , when the first Trump administration sent hundreds of officers -- including 300 Border Patrol special forces agents -- to suppress crowds engaged in largely peaceful protests protected by the U.S. Constitution . Instead of leaving local police to deal with any trouble , federal officers shoved protesters into unmarked vans , compiled dossiers on individuals to drive potential prosecutions , spied on journalists , and took to the nightly news to attack the protests . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In 2020 I was a DHS attorney . I advised the department 's intelligence officers who operated in Portland and participated in internal postmortem reviews that identified how politicized targeting and chaotic processes invited abuse . Regrettably , nothing has changed at the FPS in the past four years to prevent abuses like these from recurring , as I wrote in a recent report for the Brennan Center for Justice . <p> Advertisement <p> The FPS 's core mission is a far cry from what happened in Portland . Its basic job is to guard thousands of federal buildings , including courthouses and agencies that provide Social Security benefits , housing , and other governmental services . Millions of people access and work in these buildings daily . They deserve to do so safely . <p> But a post -- Sept. 11 reorganization pushed the agency well beyond that security mandate and laid the groundwork for abuse . The 2002 Homeland Security Act authorized its officers to work off-site to the extent " necessary " to protect federal property but did not define that term . Weak internal safeguards have led to sweeping off-site operations . The secretary of homeland security can also direct the agency to take actions " for the promotion of homeland security , " giving officials wide latitude to determine what those actions might be . <h> Related From Slate <p> The 2020 Portland operation was not the only time the Federal Protective Service has targeted Americans for exercising their First Amendment rights . In 2015 , too , the agency sent hundreds of federal officers into Baltimore to police Black Lives Matter demonstrators and , years later , arrested and threatened to criminally charge a Texas woman who criticized the overturning of Roe v. Wade on social media . The agency has routinely monitored political views expressed online and people planning political events that lacked any plausible connection to federal property , from Occupy Wall Street protests in New York to anti-vaccine truckers to recent protests over the war in Gaza on college campuses . The agency often relies on secretive intelligence contractors to do this work . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In Trump 's second term , we 're likely to see much more of this kind of activity . Indeed , Project 2025 calls on Trump to make the FPS directly responsive to the DHS 's political leadership , a dictate that would leave the agency even more vulnerable to weaponization . <p> The federal government can take immediate steps to protect against overreach . Before its current term runs out , Congress should prohibit the use of specialized police like Border Patrol for domestic law enforcement . Border special forces simply do not belong on American streets policing protesters . Congress should also eliminate the authority to deploy the FPS in undefined activities for the " promotion " of homeland security -- an open-ended , easily abused power . And the Biden administration should promptly release all policies and guidance governing the agency 's operations to help the public understand what the coming months will bring . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Cities and states have a critical role to play as well . The Department of Homeland Security often supercharges its sweeping law-enforcement operations by tapping into state and local resources , such as databases , intelligence facilities , and personnel . To protect constituents , elected leaders should enact laws limiting such cooperation . The Brennan Center has developed a set of principles for state and local governments to adopt , which can serve as a starting point for such efforts . <p> The Federal Protective Service has an important mission to safeguard governmental facilities , but it is also a proven tool for politically driven targeting . Trump has promised to go after his " enemies from within " and praised police crackdowns on dissent . A broad mandate and lack of meaningful safeguards at the FPS will position the agency to take a leading role . Serious change is overdue .
