<p> Delegates react to the voting results during the United Nations General Assembly vote on a draft resolution that would recognize the Palestinians as qualified to become a full UN member , in New York City , US May 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : Eduardo Munoz/Reuters ) <p> ' Insanity is doing the same thing repeatedly and expecting different results , " Albert Einstein once allegedly stated . And as we approach 2025 , here we go again . <p> The United Nations General Assembly announced it will host a June conference to discuss the two-state solution , a decades-old proposal for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . UNGA President Phil ? mon Yang announced the initiative with grandiose rhetoric , urging both parties to recommit to negotiations and a peaceful resolution . <p> " After more than a year of war and suffering , realizing this vision is more urgent than ever before , " Yang said . He described the ongoing denial of Palestinian statehood as a perpetrator of violence and despair , effectively giving carte blanche to Palestinian violence against Israelis -- comments that echo what UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres stated last October , merely weeks after Hamas terrorists crossed Israel 's border and raped , mutilated , murdered and kidnapped over 1,000 civilians , including women and children , and soldiers . <p> " It is important also to recognize the attacks by Hamas did not happen in a vacuum , " Guterres famously said.Yang claimed the two-state solution ensures Palestinian self-determination while safeguarding Israel 's security . <p> But the announcement , while dressed in the language of hope , reeks of hollow moral grandstanding that ignores the realities on the ground and the UN 's culpability in perpetuating this conflict . <p> The two-state solution , long the UN 's focus , consistently fails due to Palestinian leadership 's refusal to recognize Israel and ongoing corruption and incitement . Instead of addressing these issues , the UN has acted as an enabler.This Week in History : The UN Partition Plan announced ( credit : ARCHIVE ) <h> Sticking to the status quo <p> The truth is stark : the two-state solution has become a diplomatic euphemism for maintaining the status quo . While Yang stressed dialogue , he conspicuously omits any serious critique of the Palestinian Authority 's kleptocratic governance or Hamas 's terrorist regime in Gaza . No state should be expected to negotiate under fire , yet Israel is routinely pressured to do so as rockets fall on its cities and its citizens are slaughtered . <p> Yang 's comments praising the Palestinian struggle and decrying Israeli actions betray a glaring bias . While he stresses the importance of dialogue , he omits the fact that Israel has faced unrelenting attacks . The UNGA 's tendency to vilify Israel while excusing Palestinian extremism makes any serious discussion about peace a farce . <p> Reut Shapir Ben Naftaly , representing Israel on Tuesday , also called out the hypocrisy , stating that in the coming week , the Assembly would host three meetings focused on the Middle East , centered on resolutions that exhibit a " blatant disregard for the truth . " She emphasized that , following October 7 , the UN 's deeply entrenched anti-Israel bias has been glaringly exposed . <p> Yang 's remarks , with their selective moral outrage , ignore the hundred-plus Israeli hostages still held in Gaza whose plight has been sidelined in global discourse . It seems the UN 's commitment to human rights skips over Israeli victims when crafting its narratives . <p> The planned June conference will likely follow the UN 's usual script : a parade of resolutions condemning Israel , sanctimonious speeches , and no real accountability for Palestinian leadership or their terrorist proxies . If the UN truly wanted to contribute to peace , it would focus on dismantling terror networks , ensuring that aid reaches civilians instead of fueling violence , and genuinely supporting Israel 's right to security . <p> The hypocrisy surrounding this upcoming conference is particularly apparent when considering recent history . As the UN decries Israel , it continues to fund entities and initiatives in Palestinian territories with little oversight , allowing resources to be siphoned into terror infrastructure ( UNRWA anyone ? ) . <p> The result ? Billions in aid funneled into a society where martyrdom is celebrated , and peace is an afterthought . Meanwhile , Israel is expected to negotiate with a partner that not only denies its right to exist but actively seeks its destruction . <p> The UN was founded on the principle of safeguarding peace and protecting human rights . But its treatment of Israel underscores how far it has strayed from these ideals . <p> The June conference is a charade , a testament to the UN 's irrelevance in achieving peace in the Middle East . The organization has shown that it lacks both the will and the credibility to address the conflict . Israel , meanwhile , will continue to fight for its survival .
