<h> An Israeli official noted , " The Egyptian and Qatari mediators believe Hamas might now agree to a hostage-release and ceasefire deal . " <p> Israel has given to Hamas , through Egyptian mediators , an updated version of a ceasefire deal proposal that involves the release of the remaining 100 hostages , two Israeli officials said . <p> Attempting to leverage regional and international shifts -- including the elimination of Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar in mid-October , the ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah in Lebanon , and President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration in late January -- the updated version of the proposal mirrors previous similar efforts while emphasizing the implementation of the first phase of the deal from August . <p> " The Egyptian and Qatari mediators believe Hamas might now agree to a hostage-release and ceasefire deal , even if it is partial , " one Israeli official noted . <p> Key points of the new proposal were finalized during a meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , involving senior ministers and several security chiefs . These points were passed to Egyptian intelligence , who then presented them to Hamas representatives in Cairo . <p> " Egypt is currently the primary negotiation channel with Hamas , although Qatar is also involved , " Israeli officials stated . Former Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar on the backdrop of hostage posters . ( Illustrative ) ( credit : FLASH90/CANVA ) <p> The new proposal offers a ceasefire with Hamas lasting 42 to 60 days . During this period , the Gazan terror organization would release female hostages , male hostages over 50 , and hostages in critical medical condition . <p> Israel , which initially demanded the release of 33 individuals in these groups , has adjusted its expectations , citing assessments that some hostages may no longer be alive . <p> Notably , the proposal maintains Israel 's readiness to release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners , including those serving life sentences , in exchange . <h> Israel awaits Hamas response <p> " We are waiting for the Egyptians to inform us of Hamas 's response , " an Israeli official remarked concerning Hamas 's stance on the updated proposal . " Within a few days , we will know whether Hamas is willing to negotiate within the framework we presented or not , " he added . <p> If Hamas responds positively , an Israeli delegation will travel to Cairo to finalize details such as the ceasefire duration , the number of hostages to be released , and which Palestinian prisoners will be freed . <p> " The President-elect supports a deal for the release of hostages and a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip , provided it is acceptable to Israel . " a Trump advisor said , adding , " Trump wants such a deal to move forward quickly , without delay , and before January 20 . " <p> Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani told Sky News that he is in contact with Trump 's advisors on the matter . <p> " We have heard from Trump 's advisors that he wants the hostage issue and the Gaza ceasefire resolved before he takes office . We hope both sides understand this message , " he said .
