<h> With no hope for this team , honor a great Giant <p> Nissequogue , L.I. : The New York Giants endured a 17-year playoff drought from 1964-1980 that encompassed my entire childhood . I grew up with them being a dismal franchise and the laughingstock of the NFL . As bad as things were back then , I feel it 's even worse now . <p> At least then , the Giants always seemed to be competitive and put up a fight . Nowadays , they have a 2-10 record and their star rookie receiver Malik Nabers actually said out loud that the team is " soft as f ? - ? - ? k " . This is beyond an embarrassment . It is a historic humiliation to be a Giants fan in 2024 . <p> There are two home games left in the coldest month of the year . What fan in his or her right mind would want to endure the elements to come watch this team get further humiliated playing meaningless games ? But there is one possible attraction that Giants management can offer fans this lost season . Currently , former Giants running back and Super Bowl XXV MVP Ottis " O.J. " Anderson is vying for his long-deserved induction into the Pro Football Hall of Fame . <p> If for nothing else but to give fans a reason to attend one of these meaningless games , the Giants should give Anderson a halftime Hall of Fame awareness ceremony . The reason Anderson is n't in the Hall is partly because he had such an awesome career that most everybody assumes he 's already in it . If nothing else gets accomplished for the Giants in 2024 , they can at least fix this . It 's likely going to be the highlight of the season . Stephen Louro <h> Pencil-pushers <p> El Cerrito , Calif. : Really terrific reading Kristian Winfield 's article in praise of the Knicks front office ( " Seems like magic , " Dec. 4 ) , which names not a single member of said front office except for the salary cap specialist . Leon Rose and World Wide Wes must 've had a good laugh reading that one . Ed Bode <h> A caring coach <p> Whitestone : When Basketball Hall of Fame coach Lou Carnesecca passed away on Saturday , we St. John 's University friends of Louie lost a good friend and a great role model ( " Saint Looie ! " Dec. 2 ) . If you were a friend of Louie , you were his friend forever . He never forgot any of the hundreds of players he coached . He was our freshman baseball coach in 1962-63 , two years before he took over the basketball team when Joe Lapchick retired . He made everyone feel like they were important to him -- a good friend , a good guy . Sometimes , even in his 90s , he would call former St. John 's players and ask how we were doing . He always made time for his hundreds of friends . Michael J. Gorman <h> Contrived theory <p> Forest Hills : Daniel Penny 's well-heeled defense team went to Rent-a-Witness and paid $90,000 for a guy to tell them exactly what they wanted to hear . So , we ( and the jury ) are supposed to believe that even if Penny had not choked him , Jordan Neely would have died in that subway car anyway -- spontaneously -- from schizophrenia and synthetic marijuana . Alan Hirschberg <h> Tough talk is cheap <p> Swarthmore , Pa. : Donald Trump has pledged -- actually threatened -- that if the hostages held by the terrorist group Hamas are not released prior to his inauguration on Jan. 20 , 2025 , there will be " hell to pay . " He does n't seem to appreciate that Hamas ' hatred for Israel and their dedication to its destruction is what gives them the power to maintain their vise-like grip on the people of Gaza . He also does n't seem to realize that the Israelis have already rained hell down on the people of Gaza and Hamas . Trump 's bluster will not scare Hamas into submission -- in fact , it may only strengthen their resolve to prove that they 're not afraid of him or the United States . It 's the might and retributive retaliation wrought by the Israeli military that will bring Hamas to its knees , not Trump 's rhetoric , even if he posts it in all caps on his social media site . Ken Derow <h> Wait and see <p> Ottawa , Ontario : I do not understand why there is so much doom and gloom about Trump . Whether it is Canada , Mexico or China , you only hear catastrophic messages of what will happen . Really , there has got to be some good news , not 24-hour bad news . Imagine if war ends with Ukraine , imagine if North Korea will stop firing those missiles in exchange for an economic package , or even imagine if Iran would end all hostilities toward the U.S. for sanctions to be lifted . It is possible , is n't it ? If these were to happen , I see the Nobel Peace Prize waiting for Trump . Give him some slack , will you ? Anant Nagpur <h> Not unusual <p> Austin , Texas : I am tired of news networks dramatizing and making a big deal about President Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter . Their double standard is unreasonable and unfair . Let us remember that Trump promised to pardon so many of those convicted for their involvement in the Jan. 6 insurrection . Moreover , as a friend reminds me , it 's not out of the historical norm for presidents to pardon family members . Bill Clinton pardoned his brother Roger . In addition , Trump pardoned his son-in-law 's father . It 's time , therefore , for the media to stop obsessing over Biden 's decision . He has been an excellent president who came along at a time when the country desperately needed someone who could empathize with Americans and bring back civility and rationality to the White House . Richard Cherwitz <h> Massive blind spot <p> Brooklyn : To Voicer Tom Ascher : Are you for real ? A pathological liar and convicted felon is about to become the most powerful man in the world , and you say that Hunter Biden is above the law ? Give me a break . June Lowe <h> As yet unpunished <p> Manhattan : Voicer Tom Ascher 's letter was a bad joke . What were the repercussions for Trump committing high treason by trying to overthrow an American presidential election ? He sent a violent , destructive mob of thousands to trash the priceless , national landmark Capitol Building on Jan. 6 . What were the repercussions for trying to " find votes " in Georgia , cheat on real estate and business taxes , blackmail Ukraine , confiscate top secret documents and refuse to return them to the government , and lie more than 45,000 times while in office ? The penalty for Fox News for repeating the lies was $787 million . The penalty for Rudy Giuliani repeating the lies was $148 million . Other than Trump getting thrown out of court 60 times for lying about " election fraud , " I 'm still waiting for those repercussions for the Republican Mobster-in-Chief . Sam Katz <h> Credibility void <p> Manhattan : I am a Democrat and believe that those who break the law should pay the penalty . However , the incoming president has said he intends to take revenge on his enemies , and President Biden is probably Enemy #1 . But Biden is retiring and not much can be done to him except calling him names ( like children would do ) . His son -- now there 's a target ! In this very specific instance , I agree with Rep. Eric Swalwell , who posted , " If you defended the 34x felon , who committed sexual assault , stole national security documents , and tried running a coup on his country ... you can sit out the Hunter Biden pardon discussion . " Lindsay Cohen <h> Bending over backwards <p> Miami : I am glad Biden pardoned his son , even after pledging not to . I get so tired of Democrats gnashing their teeth over shortcomings among their own ( Al Franken , for example ) while Republicans look past much worse . Do you really think Trump needed this as justification for pardoning the Jan. 6 rioters ? Everybody knows he would be doing it no matter what . And please , there is no moral equivalency to pardoning hundreds who were attempting to overthrow our democracy ( leading to deaths and injuries of Capitol Police officers ) versus pardoning a son who pleaded guilty for filing false gun ownership paperwork and who has turned his life around . Please . Sylvan Seidenman
