<h> Eisenkot shares insights on war strategy , Netanyahu 's decisions , and the loss of his son Gal in this revealing Q and A. <p> MK Gadi Eisenkot attends a Defense and Foreign Affairs Committee meeting on the ultra-Orthodox draft law at the Knesset , the Israeli parliament in Jerusalem on June 24 , 2024. ( photo credit : YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <p> In an interview with Walla , former IDF chief of staff and Member of the Knesset Gadi Eisenkot discusses the loss of his son , and his experience throughout the war , particularly during major decision-making moments . <p> Tomorrow marks the anniversary of the death of Sergeant Major Gal Eisenkot in battle in Jabaliya . His father , former Eisenkot , has since adapted to a new and permanent title : a bereaved father . <p> Unlike his other titles , this one lasts a lifetime . Throughout his 40 years in uniform , Eisenkot visited and consoled hundreds of bereaved families , attended countless funerals , and knocked on doors to deliver devastating news to families whose worlds had been shattered . One day , he found himself on the other side -- not knocking on a door but standing behind one . <p> Walla asked Eisenkot how he was coping as the anniversary approached . " These days are very intense , " he replied . " On Friday , we 'll commemorate his passing with family . On Saturday , there 's a memorial event at the CrossFit surf club in Galil Yam . In the evening , a gathering with friends . " Family , friends and officials attend the funeral of Master Sgt. ( res . ) Gal Meir Eisenkot , son of war cabinet minister Minister Gadi Eisenkot in Herzliya on December 8 , 2023 ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/FLASH90 ) <h> You had a unique connection with him . <p> " Gal was our youngest child . I worried about him more than the others because he was always pushing boundaries . He had immense curiosity , interest , and a sense of adventure . He was passionate about fitness , extreme sports , triathlons , and surfing worldwide , as well as extreme skiing . He sought the most challenging places -- the biggest waves , the steepest slopes . He lived life to the fullest , and as his father , I accompanied it with worry . I was very concerned about him . I always knew where he was and called him frequently . " <h> He probably did n't appreciate that . <p> " Not really . I tried to instill a sense of responsibility and safety in him and made him take extra care not only of himself but also of those around him . And that 's how he was -- always caring for everyone , always looking out for others . Once in Thailand , one of the girls in their group fainted . Gal revived her , restored her pulse , carried her on his back , and evacuated her . " <p> " He was a combat medic , almost a paramedic by training . When he enlisted , I understood immediately where this was headed . He was a combat soldier in the 551st Battalion and served in the reserves alongside soldiers from units like Maglan , the Paratroopers Brigade , and Duvdevan . I understood the implications . He was always on the front line . He 'd tell me , ' Dad , do n't worry . I 'm in the medical team ; I 'm not in the lead . ' I 'd respond , ' Gal , from my experience , those at the back sometimes face more danger . ' " <h> And then the war broke out . Did you manage to keep your composure ? <p> " I tried to put on a brave face , mainly to reassure Hanna his wife , Gal 's mother . I told Gal , ' Listen , you 're part of the strongest force ; nothing can stand against you . But stay vigilant . ' The intention was to instill confidence in him . And I succeeded -- he had confidence like four Chiefs of Staff rolled into one . But I admit , it was all a facade for me . Hanna stayed constantly updated through a network of mothers of soldiers and knew what was happening . " <h> Gal fell in combat during an operation to recover the bodies of hostages . Do you think it 's appropriate to risk soldiers ' lives to retrieve bodies ? <p> " I discussed this with Hanna . She asked me , ' Do you think it 's reasonable for our son to die retrieving bodies ? ' I told her , ' In this case , it was justified to send them . I was aware of the intelligence and the level of risk , and it was a reasonable decision . If I were Chief of Staff , I would have also approved this operation . There are cases where the risk is too high , and then you do n't go ahead . But you never know how such operations will end . That 's part of it . " <h> Did you have a sense that something terrible was about to happen ? <p> " His death is linked to the previous hostage deal . He came home on its last day and was called back when it fell through after 24 hours . He managed to be home for one night , visited friends , and had dinner with us . At some point , he picked up our granddaughter and kissed her . Suddenly , I felt the need to photograph him -- a strange feeling . I took four photos with my phone . The next morning , I woke him at 7 AM , drove him to Arlozorov Street , and he took a bus back to the assembly point . Our last exchange was via text . His last call was to his girlfriend , and then he texted me that he was turning off his phone . That week , he did n't call me , even though he would sometimes ask his company commander to borrow the military phone to call my secure line . When he did n't call that week , I understood they were extremely busy . <p> " On the morning of his death , Benny and I were traveling to the Gaza border . At the Yahalom Unit base , we were briefed on all the explosive devices captured in Gaza and the different types they encountered there . We then drove to the division headquarters for another briefing . About half an hour in , I noticed activity out of the corner of my eye . A female officer I knew entered the room , called the division chief of staff outside , and he returned looking shaken . <p> Then I saw Nadav Padan enter , glance at me , approach , and ask me to step outside with him . I understood immediately . He said , ' Gal was critically wounded -- possibly fatally . Go home . ' I told him , ' Nadav , when someone is fatally wounded , it means they 've passed . How did it happen ? ' He told me it was an explosive device . At that moment , I switched to autopilot . " <h> What do you mean by ' autopilot ' ? Your youngest son had just been killed . How can you describe your feelings in that moment ? <p> " A feeling I ca n't describe -- like a suffocating weight . But I got into the car and began making phone calls . I called my eldest son , Guy , and said , ' Listen , Gal has been killed . Go home and make sure no one enters the house until I get there . ' I called Pasco , my former chief of staff , who was on his way to the hospital in Ashdod , where Gal had been evacuated . He told me Gal arrived at the hospital with a pulse , and they fought to save him , but it was n't successful . I called Guy again to confirm he had reached the house and no one had entered . " <h> What happened when you got home ? <p> " I arrived at about 3:15 PM . Hanna was putting our granddaughter to sleep . One of my daughters was already there , and two more were on their way . The girls had planned to spend the afternoon with their mother . I told them , ' Listen , Gal has been killed . He was hit by an explosive device . I believe he died instantly . He was evacuated to Ashdod . That 's it . ' No one could speak anymore . We just cried . " <p> During the shiva , we were visited by Brigadier General ( Res . ) Vered Pomerantz , who now heads the Family Liaison Unit in the Ministry of Defense 's Hostage Affairs Division . In the past , she was the legendary casualty officer of the Golani Brigade . <p> Eisenkot was one of the many she once persuaded to send their sons to Golani . " Only Golani . My son will not serve anywhere else , " she 'd told him and countless others . " When I hesitated , " Eisenkot recalled , " she brought out of nowhere Uri Sagi , one of Golani 's legendary brigade commanders . " And it worked . Her son Daniel became a Golani soldier . During the APC disaster in Shuja'iyya during Operation Protective Edge , he was killed . At the shiva for Gal , Pomerantz came to console Eisenkot . " Now you can finally look me in the eyes without lowering your gaze , " she told him . <h> A Family 's triple tragedy <p> People say lightning does n't strike the same place twice . But it does . A day after Gal 's death , Gadi Eisenkot 's nephew , Maor Cohen Eisenkot ( the son of his sister Sharon ) , was killed in battle in Gaza . Less than a month later , on November 17 , lightning struck again -- 700 meters from where Gal fell . Captain Yogev Pazzi , a beloved cousin and platoon commander in the Nachshon Battalion of the Kfir Brigade , was also killed . <h> It feels like a curse was placed upon your family . <p> " Yes , it 's difficult . Yogev 's death felt like a replay of Gal 's . When I was informed he had been killed , I drove home and told my children to gather . Two daughters were already with us , and I called Guy to come home from university . I told them , ' Yogev has been killed . ' You have to understand -- Yogev was like a younger brother to Gal . They were deeply connected in heart and soul . By the way , the first in our family to be injured was Omer , my brother 's son , an officer in the 5th Brigade , who was wounded early in the war . Two months ago , I attended his wedding . He walked down the aisle with his radio operator , who was blinded in the same incident where he was injured . " <p> War Cabinet minister Gadi Eisenkot , eulogizing his son Gal , who fell in battle , a hero , fighting Hamas monsters in Jabaliya. **26;1074;TOOLONG <h> How do you cope ? Honestly , this sounds inhuman . <p> " The night before Gal 's funeral , I sat down to write his eulogy . I decided to write as a father -- not as a cabinet minister or a Chief of Staff . I wrote it in five minutes . During the shiva , I reflected a lot . I 've seen hundreds of bereaved families . I told my family upfront : the pain is immense and enduring , and time does not dull it . Gal was the happiest person I ever knew . He always had a smile on his face . In my office , I have a picture of him sitting in the snow after skiing , smiling . He always smiled . After triathlons , I 'd run to wrap him in a coat , and he 'd be smiling . <p> But in the end , life goes on . There 's no choice . On the fourth day of the shiva , I was informed of a significant event . I left and went to the cabinet meeting , with the beginnings of a beard on my face . I think I challenged that cabinet quite a bit during the session . I did n't come to quarrel -- I came with good intentions . When it was my turn to speak , I said , ' Do n't go easy on me because I wo n't go easy on you . ' " <h> Let 's go back to October 7 , Saturday morning . Where were you ? <p> " I was preparing to go for a morning walk when I heard the sirens and turned on the TV . Gal had slept at our house the night before . I woke him up and said , ' It 's war . ' Just then , footage appeared of a white Toyota driving through Sderot . Gal asked me , ' What 's that ? ' I told him , ' It 's a truck with terrorists in Sderot . This is war . ' He enlisted that day . Meanwhile , Benny Gantz , Chili Tropper , and I were discussing amongst ourselves . It was clear we would be entering the government . It took three days to arrange . " <h> You joined the government on October 11 , a date that will go down in history for the debate over whether to eliminate Nasrallah . <p> " That 's right . Benny Gantz called me that day and told me , ' Today we 're signing , and tomorrow we 'll be sworn in . ' I reviewed the agreement -- it was perfectly fine . I was getting ready to go home for a haircut when Benny urgently summoned me to the Kirya IDF headquarters . ' Come immediately ; there 's a critical discussion at 5 p.m . ' We entered the meeting , and I already understood what was on the table . " <p> Although the story has been reported and published , Eisenkot refrains from explicitly stating what was discussed . However , it is known that the meeting centered on an operational opportunity to assassinate Hassan Nasrallah and Hezbollah 's entire Shura Council leadership . Israeli air force planes were armed and airborne , waiting for orders from the political echelon . <p> According to the plan , the assassination would trigger Hezbollah 's commanders and fighters to mobilize , prompting Israel to detonate 15,000 booby-trapped radios , killing between 10,000 and 15,000 operatives . Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and IDF Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi , backed by the entire security establishment , recommended executing the plan . Netanyahu hesitated and wanted to stop it . Aryeh Deri agreed with him , as did Ron Dermer . But Netanyahu needed significant support from experienced security officials . This is why Gantz and Eisenkot were urgently summoned . <p> " It was a very heavy , very serious discussion , " Eisenkot recalls . " We found ourselves going from zero to one hundred without warning , in such a dramatic debate , with the small group that later became the war cabinet . At that stage , everyone spoke , sharing their opinions . We were still essentially private citizens , not yet sworn in . Netanyahu said , ' Gadi , I want to hear your opinion . ' <p> With my experience as a chief of staff and in such discussions , I suddenly realized there was no recording , no stenographer . I said , ' Prime Minister , this is a critical discussion . It must be recorded , and a stenographer must be present . Decisions of enormous consequence are being made here . Intelligence chiefs should also be present . ' They brought in recording equipment and a stenographer , and then I spoke . Essentially , it turned out that I was the only one recorded in that discussion because everyone else had spoken before . Herzi , Gallant , everyone . Only I was recorded . " Destroyed houses from the October 7 massacre almost a year ago , in Kibbutz Kfar Aza , southern Israel , September 19 , 2024 ( credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <h> How did it end ? We all know . <p> " At some point , towards the end of the meeting in the Prime Minister 's Office , we saw rumors on TV about dozens of Hezbollah drones landing in the Galilee . Alerts kept coming in . We rushed downstairs to the underground bunker . That 's where the matter was decided . " <h> You helped Netanyahu avoid the strike that day . In hindsight , was it a mistake ? Eliminating Hezbollah 's leadership just four days after October 7 could have shortened the entire conflict . <p> " Absolutely not . We knew the intelligence picture and understood that operational opportunities to take down Nasrallah would arise again . Yahya Sinwar had orchestrated the most severe attack on Israel since its founding , and we needed to deal with him first . A strike in Lebanon would have shifted our efforts northward when we still had 250 hostages in the south . There were other questions : Are we prepared for a war in the North ? Is there a plan ? Later , people told me we were ready with the ' Beepers Operation . ' That 's complete nonsense . Most people had no idea about the beepers , which only became a possibility much later . The decision made that day was very correct . We needed to handle the South first . At that point , we were still clearing out terrorist cells from the area . " <h> You 're ignoring the argument that an early , dramatic blow to Hezbollah would have shortened the process and positively impacted the southern front . <p> " Look , in war , you ca n't play ' what if . ' We worked on the northern plans for over a decade . It 's funny that people like Itamar Ben-Gvir now claim credit for everything . He did n't even know about the beepers and only learned about them from the media . The process started back when Tamir Pardo was head of the Mossad . Credit for everything prepared in Lebanon belongs to leaders like Gabi Ashkenazi , Benny Gantz , Aviv Kochavi , and Herzi Halevi . Herzi deserves significant credit as former head of Military Intelligence for what was done during his time . The success in Lebanon is the result of years of planning , preparation , countless days and nights in command centers , and intelligence superiority . It 's a decade-long event . If Nasrallah knew just how exposed and vulnerable he is , he 'd be much more cautious . " <h> It 's a shame this was n't the situation with Gaza . <p> " On October 7 , the government set four war objectives . On one hand , Netanyahu deserves credit for that . On the other hand , the objectives did n't mention the hostages . This omission reflects the state of mind of the leadership at the time . The word ' hostages ' did n't even enter the government 's vocabulary during the first week . It was n't until October 16 , five days after we joined , that the concept of ' returning the hostages ' was formally introduced at our insistence . " <h> How do you explain that ? <p> " The mindset of those in leadership on October 7 was shaped by the trauma , shock , and failure they experienced . Some did n't even believe it was possible to bring the hostages back . From the outset , Benny Gantz , Gallant , Aryeh Deri , and I agreed with the defense establishment that the debate between focusing on the South versus the North had ended . We were heading south . The foundational state in the South was offense , while in the North , it was defense . I estimated it would take us one to two months to deliver the required blow in Gaza . It was clear to us that significant ground maneuvers were essential to achieve meaningful results -- capturing territory , controlling the population , and cleansing the area . This was based on our experience in the West Bank during Operation Defensive Shield , which took two months to achieve operational control , followed by years of cleaning up . " IDF soldiers operate in the Gaza Strip , December 3 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <h> But the plan went off track . <p> " That 's true . The original plan was about three weeks to a month of firepower from a distance , followed by three months of powerful ground maneuvers , and then transitioning to Phase C , where we are now . The problem was that the operation in Gaza stalled . As a result , the primary effort in the North only began two months ago . What they 're doing now is essentially reversing the timeline , leveraging the significant achievements against Hezbollah . But in the end , the plan deviated . We went North much later than intended . " <h> How do you see the situation today , a year and two months after October 7 ? <p> " This was a defining moment for Israeli resilience . The blow we suffered on October 7 deeply damaged something very fundamental . Israel 's deterrence is based on three principles : the IDF is an invincible army , Israeli society is strong , united , and advanced , and we are America 's closest allies , making it unwise for anyone to challenge us . On October 7 , Sinwar shattered the first principle . The other two principles were also under threat , but it became clear that Israeli society has a very high level of resilience , and the Americans , despite disagreements and disputes , stood firmly by our side . It took a year , but that was repaired . " Reinforcement of IDF troops in Golan Heights 06 December 2024 ( credit : IDF ) <h> So , did we win ? <p> " Looking at the balance of achievements , there are significant cumulative successes . Hezbollah 's leadership was destroyed , and around 60% of the organization 's capabilities were eliminated . Hamas 's leadership was destroyed , with approximately 70-80% of its capabilities eradicated . We captured the Gaza Strip and control 100% of its perimeter . In Lebanon , we captured only 2-3% of the territory . We do n't control the perimeter , the crossings , or the country 's interior . But after listing the achievements , you also have to account for the costs . Nearly 1,800 killed , tens of thousands wounded across expanding circles , and an entire region abandoned for over a year . No one could have imagined such an event . In early discussions , we did n't even consider evacuating Sderot in the event of full-scale war . If necessary , we planned to station three brigades to defend it . <p> " At the strategic level , the IDF , Shin Bet , and Mossad achieved impressive results . But when you evaluate the eight updated war objectives , the prime minister ca n't claim a single one was fully achieved . The reason lies in an unwillingness to make the tough decisions required to achieve those goals . <p> " It took me two or three months to understand , " Eisenkot continues , " that this war had both overt and covert objectives . Within the broader cabinet , a divide emerged between those focused on the overt goal of dismantling Hamas 's organizational and governmental capabilities and returning the hostages , and those advocating for the conquest of Gaza , the imposition of military rule , and the resettlement of Israelis there . Today , they openly voice those goals , establishing new settlement cores . And you think , ' Have n't we learned anything ? ' The most important thing now is to preserve solidarity and unity . After the shock , the massacre , the trauma -- everything we 've endured -- is this the time to shatter our unity ? Is this why we sent soldiers to die ? The fact that the government is now introducing these goals through the back door points to a deep sickness . " <h> How do you explain this to yourself ? <p> " Israel has a very weak National Security Council . There are a few good people there , but the council can not manage the strategic level . Netanyahu has three forums that I 'm familiar with : the broader cabinet , which has formal responsibility and usually involves about 15 ministers . With all their aides and advisors , there are around 50 or 60 people in the room . The war cabinet is smaller and more efficient , but even there , between 20 and 30 people are present , with every minister bringing their aides . I was the only one who did n't bring aides . The third forum is the war cabinet ministers , along with the heads of the security organizations and the chief of staff . Unfortunately , Netanyahu convened this forum only a few times . " <h> When did things start falling apart ? <p> " As long as we felt backed into a corner , there was unity . After the first hostage deal , confidence began to return , and then the leaks started . It was crystal clear where they came from . This created a very unhealthy atmosphere . I 'm very experienced at this level , in cabinets and security forums . I 've been attending these since 1999 , for 25 years . And suddenly , I saw something was very off , compared to how I was trained . <p> The disputes with Netanyahu became bitter in January . We started pressing for the hostages ' return , for planning the day after in Gaza , for bringing in a governing body to replace Hamas , and for shifting focus North . It was clear to me there was no reason to keep five divisions in Gaza . There were also disagreements over the operational approach in the Strip . Why focus only on the north ? Why not move towards Rafah and Khan Yunis ? <p> " But you must understand , by January-February , it became clear there was no intention to move North and no rush to accelerate operations towards Rafah . We said , ' We 've already deployed five divisions ; there 's no point in keeping such a large force in Gaza . ' Two divisions could remain while the others focused on the north . <p> Today , they tell us that if they had listened to us , they would n't have killed Sinwar . But these are just hypothetical games . Killing Sinwar was always a matter of time -- it would have happened sooner or later . Militarily , reaching Rafah was n't a big challenge , and it was n't even a Hamas stronghold . Benny Gantz and I believed we should shift focus to Lebanon by March or April . Benny wrote this in his famous memo and added a specific goal : to return residents to their homes safely by September 1 . Netanyahu , Dermer , and Gallant thought we should stay in Gaza . " <h> Who was right ? <p> " We 'll never know . As I 've told you , in war , you ca n't predict how things will unfold . Broadly speaking , it would have been correct to forego the Hezbollah strike on October 11 , concentrate efforts in Gaza with five divisions , achieve the necessary objectives by March , leave two divisions in Gaza , and redirect four divisions North . The plans were already approved and ready . As I see it , the prolonged stay in Gaza until just two or three months ago , and the delayed move North , were serious mistakes . All of this was written in a document I submitted to the cabinet on February 15 -- the same document leaked to Yaron Avraham . " <h> What 's your opinion on the concept of ' total victory ' ? <p> " I 'm sure all cabinet members want total victory , and I assume the Prime Minister emphasized being on the brink of it mainly for public perception . I believe that instead of focusing on slogans , the effort should be directed toward completing operations in Khan Yunis , moving down to Rafah and the central camps , immediately promoting plans to return the hostages , and creating a governance framework that does n't involve Hamas . I think Netanyahu opposes this even today . He 's hesitant to make such decisions . " <h> Initially , he was very wary of a ground maneuver in Gaza . <p> " That 's true . We saw in discussions his deep fear of ground maneuvers inside the Strip . He summoned Major General ( res . ) Yitzhak Brik several times , who only heightened his fears . I had a personal meeting with Netanyahu about this and realized it was challenging to influence him . He was genuinely afraid . I told him , ' I 'm confident the IDF will succeed , and my son will be in the first battalion . ' Gabi Ashkenazi also went to see him to reassure him . <p> On the way , he stopped by my place . There were even two ministers in the extended cabinet who opposed the maneuver . I wo n't name names . Later , they retroactively changed their stance . Benny and I were clear : the IDF was capable of a successful ground maneuver , and no significant military achievement was possible without it . " <h> What led to your departure from the government ? <p> " We realized we had become a fig leaf and were n't influencing decisions . The IDF used substantial force in Khan Yunis but did n't move south . We pushed for a move southward , but it was stuck . Netanyahu was n't in a hurry . We understood we could n't make progress . So we left , with heavy hearts . We made an effort , tried to promote our path , but realized he did n't want to return the hostages , did n't want to discuss the day after , did n't want to shift focus North , and did n't want to pass universal conscription legislation . It became clear that while Ben-Gvir and Smotrich were n't in the War Cabinet , they had more influence than anyone else , especially regarding the hostages . " <h> Do you truly believe the hostages could have been returned ? Was another deal feasible after the first one fell apart ? <p> " Yes . Let 's look at the first deal . Ben-Gvir and Smotrich put on a show -- at the last moment , Smotrich voted in favor , and Ben-Gvir against . In the second round , we pushed for a hostage framework starting in late January . But Netanyahu kept creating obstacles . Again , Sinwar is the main culprit and source of evil , but that does n't mean we could n't act . On April 25 , an Egyptian delegation arrived . It was a significant moment . Our team received a mandate , and then there was the infamous conversation where Netanyahu backtracked behind Gantz 's back . <p> " This is n't ancient history . We still have 100 hostages in Gaza . The issue remains urgent because , on May 27 , Netanyahu presented his framework to the War Cabinet . It was titled : ' General principles for an agreement between the Israeli and Palestinian sides in Gaza regarding hostage and prisoner exchanges and sustainable quiet . ' <p> " ' The framework 's goal is the release of all Israeli hostages in Gaza -- civilians and soldiers , whether alive or deceased , from all periods . This will be in exchange for an agreed number of Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli jails , alongside sustainable quiet that leads to a permanent ceasefire , withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza , reconstruction of the Gaza Strip , reopening of crossings , and enabling the movement of people and goods . ' " <p> Eisenkot notes , " This paragraph is the entire story . Netanyahu went all the way with this . The framework included a permanent ceasefire and a phased Israeli withdrawal . This was in May . If a deal is reached now , it will be based on this framework . The problem is that months have passed in the meantime . " <h> What happened with Netanyahu 's framework in that meeting ? <p> " He distributed the document to all ministers , read out their names one by one : ' Gadi ? In favor . Benny ? In favor . Gallant ? In favor . Dermer ? In favor . Deri ? In favor . ' ' Good , ' said Netanyahu , ' everyone agrees . ' He instructed the negotiation team to pass the framework as it was to the intermediaries -- Qatar , Egypt , and the US . But then a day passed , and another day , and on May 29 , I was at the Dagan Conference when I began hearing leaks about a discussion on the hostages . <p> The narrative was that Benny , Gallant , and I wanted to retreat , but Netanyahu and Dermer stood firm against us . That 's when I realized he was starting to backtrack . So , at the conference , I made it clear for the first time : ' This is Netanyahu 's framework . ' I publicly stated that it was his plan , and I told the audience , ' The person who introduced it is Netanyahu . And now I 'm hearing in the media that those who folded are us . ' <p> " By the way , the Americans received a copy of the framework that same night . That 's why , when Biden realized Netanyahu was trying to escape it , he made the framework public and forced it out of the shadows . Two days later , Netanyahu went on ' The Patriots ' , where he announced , on camera , a message that Hamas surely picked up on : that he was n't planning to honor the framework he himself wrote . He said he would only implement Phase A , with no commitment to the following stages . He claimed that Benny , Gallant , and I were trying to impose a ceasefire on him , and he would n't agree to any deal that did n't allow him to resume fighting after Phase A. " <p> Eisenkot shakes his head . " But that 's the thing -- he wrote ' permanent ceasefire ' in the framework himself . I 've never even used the term ' ending the war . ' I 've always advocated for a two-to-three-month ceasefire to bring the hostages home , followed by resuming the fight . He insisted that we vote on his framework , the very framework he now denies . In hindsight , I understood why he refused to bring this framework to the broader cabinet . He knew exactly what he was doing . " <h> How did Hamas respond to the framework Netanyahu disavowed ? <p> " On July 2 , Hamas responded that they would agree to the framework on the condition that there would be no resumption of fighting after Phase A. After all , if we resumed , we would n't receive the remaining male hostages and soldiers . Then Netanyahu launched a public relations campaign , claiming that if we proceeded with the framework , we would only get some of the hostages . And so , we went back to square one : Hamas are villains -- they have their objectives -- but we are the stronger side . We won . We could now go for demilitarization in exchange for reconstruction , expelling Hamas 's leadership -- even though there 's barely anyone left to expel -- and ensuring that the next administration in Gaza is n't Hamas . <p> All of this was detailed in Netanyahu 's own framework , which he himself distributed to the media that night . The framework explicitly states that civilian governance in Gaza would fall to the international community and local actors with administrative experience unaligned with states or entities supporting terrorism . " <h> Now they 're discussing another partial hostage deal . <p> " Today ( Wednesday ) , many hostage families came to the Knesset , where they once again had to rely on media leaks to learn about a possible partial deal . What is a partial deal ? Simply implementing Phase A of Netanyahu 's framework . When will the future agreement come ? Every security expert agrees that the conditions are ripe for a comprehensive deal now . There 's no reason to delay . The achievements and conditions in Gaza are significantly better than in Lebanon . The risk in Gaza is far lower than in Lebanon , yet in Lebanon , a ceasefire was agreed upon , and here it was n't . <p> What is he afraid of ? Ceasefires can always be broken . It seems like he 's trying to buy more time instead of executing the full and proper deal . I hope I 'm wrong , but I believe he does n't want a comprehensive deal . How long can we keep hiding behind Sinwar and Hamas ? Yes , the Americans also said Hamas is blocking a deal . But Israeli citizens elected you , not Hamas . This failure happened on your watch . It 's your job to bring them back . The security establishment agrees it 's possible . If we do n't return them , it will be a permanent mark of shame on us . " <h> No matter how we look at it , you saved Netanyahu on October 11 . <p> " I do n't agree . We saved the country . Look , I entered that room on October 11 and saw how deeply affected everyone was . Gallant deserves credit for being the only one projecting strength and stability . You do n't want me to describe how Netanyahu looked , how Dermer looked , how the National Security Council looked , or the others in the room . " <h> Actually , I do . <p> " That day , I left the bunker around 2 a.m . My phone was flooded with hundreds of WhatsApp messages and calls . Many people congratulated me on joining . Gal , my son , also called to congratulate me . I told him , ' Gal , these were the eight most significant hours of my security career . ' Looking back , maybe I exaggerated . Or maybe I did n't . Later , we went down south . I saw Be'eri , Nir Oz . I was stunned by the destruction . The fact that Hamas managed to capture parts of the country , that citizens in a sovereign state with a powerful IDF fought all day to hold onto their bomb shelter doors to stay alive -- that 's a lesson that needs to endure for generations . <p> I call it the Conventional Begin Doctrine : the entire region must understand that anyone who captures Israeli territory and harms its citizens in this way will pay an unbearable price -- with their lives , their leadership , their centers of power , and their people . That 's the blow they suffered in Gaza and the Dahiyeh . That 's the price tag that must be levied on anyone thinking of conquering parts of Israel . " <h> Moments before tragedy <p> At Be'eri , while still in shock from the sights of destruction and the burned kibbutz , Eisenkot received a phone call from his nephew , the son of his sister , a doctor at Soroka Hospital . He informed him that Omer , another nephew , the son of his brother , had been severely wounded by a mortar in the Gaza border and was being airlifted to the hospital . At that point , he did not yet know that this would be the family 's least difficult case that year . <h> I want to press you about October 11 . Do you think that if you had n't joined , the country would have collapsed or been conquered ? No . In the end , the ones you truly saved were Netanyahu . <p> " Again , these are ' what-if ' games . What 's certain is that no one had the confidence to move to action , least of all Netanyahu . We bolstered that confidence . We brought the experience of two former chiefs of staff , integrated the return of the hostages into the objectives , and were the driving force behind the first deal . That happened because we came from the outside . We did n't experience the trauma of October 7 from within . <p> We had nothing to prove or to fix . We insisted that bringing the hostages home was not a weakness but a strength and a basic duty . I 'll tell you -- the trust of the soldiers in the leadership during those days was very low . I received responses from dozens of directions saying it was good we joined . In every tour , every place we visited -- divisions , brigades , commands -- people approached us and said that the fact that the two of us entered without hesitation and stood by them gave them confidence . Try to remember the shock and trauma . At that point , the fact that two former chiefs of staff joined was a strategic event . " <h> Your departure was also controversial . You 're criticized for both entering and leaving . You 're under fire for everything . <p> " We did n't leave lightly . Our departure was conditional . Benny wrote a detailed letter to Netanyahu . We did n't want to leave just for the sake of leaving but to steer the cabinet in the right direction , to balance the influence of Ben Gvir and Smotrich . We hoped for dialogue -- hostages , moving northward . But there was no dialogue , and there was no listening . From his perspective , we were no longer essential . We were a nuisance . They briefed against us nonstop , as if we did n't want to advance to Khan Yunis , blocking things here and there -- everything opposite of the truth . Today , they 're trying to explain that since we left , there 's been momentum . It 's just a shame this momentum came with a 7 -- 8-month delay . Had we moved north in March , the residents would already have returned by September . The blow we could have dealt in the north then would have been far more significant . Lieberman mentioned it in one of his interviews -- the main plan involved communication devices and bunkers , an operation planned for many years . But Netanyahu now tries to create the impression that he and Dermer planned it over the past year . In summary , we left because we had no choice . We refused to be a fig leaf . We hoped our departure would push him in the right direction . In practice , the opposite happened . " <h> Yes , but the military achievements are impressive . <p> " These are operational achievements . But as prime minister , you also need strategic achievements . You need to fulfill the war 's objectives as quickly as possible and at the lowest cost . Even now , he ca n't say that even one of the eight goals has been achieved . A 60-day ceasefire in Lebanon is the required achievement ? Why not aim for a simultaneous ceasefire in both the North and South through a UN Security Council decision under US dominance ? <p> In the North , this would be based on a reinforced 1701 resolution , and in the south , on an improved Netanyahu framework -- with the Philadelphi Corridor sealed with an underground wall , reconstruction in exchange for demilitarization , and a US-Israel agreement ensuring Iran never achieves nuclear capabilities , alongside building an Israeli-Sunni regional alliance . This is an opportunity to significantly enhance the IDF 's capabilities , stabilize US-Israel relations , heal Israeli society for generations , establish a national security doctrine , strengthen the IDF for future challenges , enhance the ability to manage prolonged campaigns , boost the economy , enact a universal conscription law , reinforce governance , and , of course , bring the hostages home . That 's what victory should look like . " <h> Meanwhile , look at the chaos around us -- the insane legislation , the ongoing assault on gatekeepers , the military , and all systems . <p> " I call it the extremist worldview of the spirit of Ben Gvir , Smotrich , and Karai . Some mistakenly call it religious Zionism . This is not religious Zionism . It 's what will drag Israel into deep social division , multi-front attrition warfare , and international delegitimization . They aim for the return of settlements in Gaza , a binational state in Judea and Samaria , annexation , and the continuation of the ongoing struggle in Lebanon . All this instead of what I outlined above . Netanyahu makes partial decisions in every area and tries to buy time . " <p> This week , they plan to pass the Feldstein Law in its preliminary reading . <p> " This is utter madness and a total loss of direction . This law , by Milvitzky and Amit Halevi , would allow any soldier in Military Intelligence , or an employee of the Shin Bet or Mossad , to directly transfer intelligence information to the Prime Minister and cabinet ministers . Whoever decided on this is n't just burning barns -- they 're also destroying Israel 's intelligence superiority . It 's clear there 's no preservation of secrecy and chaos across the agencies . When I was Chief of Staff , I demanded 6,000 to 8,000 polygraph tests annually in the military to safeguard secrecy . The first question in a polygraph test is whether you 've shared intelligence information with an unauthorized person . That question will no longer even be asked . " <h> Netanyahu claims that information was withheld from him . <p> " The Prime Minister has access to all the material . His intelligence aide is authorized to access every database . He does n't need favors from anyone . This law is merely a gesture to reassure Feldstein that he 's being looked after . And for that , they 're sacrificing our intelligence superiority . Does Netanyahu not understand this ? He understands it perfectly . Does he really want to destroy Israel 's intelligence system ? Yesterday , I addressed this in the Knesset . I was a military secretary 25 years ago ; I was chief of staff . Without intelligence superiority , we have no capabilities in the region . We have no purpose here . What bridges the asymmetry on our fronts today is intelligence superiority , and they 're burning it down . There 's no justification for this . <p> In his nine-minute speech , the Prime Minister said it 's unacceptable for highly classified information not to reach him . Let 's assume this happened . Then issue a directive requiring that all highly classified information reaches you . It might require a few extra desks in the office , but it 's doable . But to give a sweeping authorization to anyone to leak raw intelligence ? Have they lost their minds ? I 've quietly spoken with Likud MKs , urging them to show statesmanship and protect the IDF . I hope it will have an impact . I keep reaching out and speaking to them . <p> I hope that tomorrow , Avi Dichter , Yoav Gallant , and Nir Barkat wo n't raise their hands to enable any junior officer to leak documents . They must n't participate in destroying the intelligence superiority built since the days of the Palmach 's Arab Division . Someone has decided to blind Israel and undermine its capabilities . I want to see Dichter vote for something like this , allowing any Shin Bet officer to take classified materials . I ca n't believe it will happen . I ca n't believe it . Losing trust in people has its limits . There 's only so much incompetence and spinelessness one can tolerate . " <h> Voting on the Feldstein law <p> The next day , the vote took place . Dichter and Barkat voted " in favor . " Eisenkot was agitated : " The law passed an hour ago , " he told me in a follow-up phone call . " I thought it would be hard to surprise me after two years . In the end , Dichter , a former head of the Shin Bet , votes in favor of severely damaging Israel 's intelligence superiority , while all the Arab MKs opposed this harm . It seems there 's always more to learn about our politics . If this law is enacted , it will be a fatal blow to our ability to safeguard secrets . And at 64 and a half , I 've learned something new about the cynicism of Israeli politics . " <h> Do you believe Netanyahu did n't know what Feldstein and Orich were doing ? <p> " Look , Ronen Bar is a brave man , but I 'm sure that if they had pushed a bit further , it would have reached Netanyahu . Orich is Netanyahu . We know Netanyahu . The Israeli Prime Minister is not the US President ; he 's not the supreme commander -- he 's first among equals . We reminded him of that in the cabinet -- the responsibility is collective , not his alone . " <h> Shortly before you spoke in the Knesset , Minister Dudi Amsalem accused you of shrinking the military . And this is n't the first time you 've faced such accusations . <p> " Look , it 's not even funny . Nine years ago , the Prime Minister came to us with the Brodet Report , the literary name for the Netanyahu Report , which proposed cutting IDF service from 36 months to just 24 . Netanyahu established the Brodet Committee precisely for this purpose -- to significantly shrink the army . <p> It was blocked at the time thanks to good Likud members . All four who helped stop it -- Bogie , Kahlon , Steinitz , and Gallant -- paid a price later . They were cabinet ministers and prevented it . Netanyahu wanted to cut the army by an entire year . They stopped him . I handed over an IDF larger than the one I received . That 's a fact . " <h> They want to dismiss the Attorney General . Do you believe it 's possible ? <p> " Shlomo Karai issued a letter today with signatures from 13 MKs calling for her dismissal . Look , Gali Baharav-Miara sat next to me in the cabinet . She demonstrated impressive backbone . She 's very security-minded in her positions . She did n't block us from anything . She 's an island of stability . <p> I do n't understand what they want from her . I hope Gideon Sa'ar wo n't be a pushover and will stand firm to prevent them from dismantling the state . These people have no boundaries . Yesterday , I spoke with a few Likud MKs . " <p> " What 's troubling now is the madness of Ben Gvir and Smotrich , who are exploiting the immune system 's weakness to launch an autoimmune attack on the state . Settling Gaza now -- is that what will rebuild solidarity in Israeli society ? Annexing over two million Palestinians -- is that the cure ? Avoiding passing a conscription law with personal and criminal sanctions -- is that what will restore solidarity ? <p> All this instead of ending the war from a position of advantage , building a long-term security strategy , maintaining our qualitative edge over our enemies , and enacting a conscription law . This week , there was cause for concern when Hezbollah 's fire was n't answered in Beirut but in a few villages . That 's worrisome . " <h> You occasionally call on security officials to take personal responsibility and resign . Are n't you overlooking the fact that Netanyahu is n't resigning , is n't forming a commission of inquiry , and is n't calling elections ? The departure of these officials would only enable him to appoint loyalists . <p> " Look , it 's clear that the villain in this story is Netanyahu , and the people he 's sacrificing are Herzi Halevi and Yaron Finkelman . I love both of them deeply . I admire Herzi -- he was an excellent head of Military Intelligence , an outstanding Southern Command leader , and even he knows that this excellent man is responsible for the greatest failure we 've experienced on October 7 . <p> On the other hand , he deserves immense credit for how he stood firm from that dark hour onward , like an immovable rock . If someone takes pride in the cumulative balance of achievements , the first to receive credit should be Herzi , Ronen Bar , and Dedi Barnea -- especially Herzi and Ronen , who started from an incredibly challenging position . <p> But still , if responsibility is not taken soon , from the division commander to the prime minister , we might as well erase the word ' responsibility ' from the Hebrew language . My example is Udi Adam , a close friend of mine , the Northern Command leader during the Second Lebanon War , who was responsible for both the failure and the achievements . On the day the ceasefire took effect , he submitted his resignation to Chief of Staff Halutz . <p> The same applies to Southern Command leader Yaron Finkelman . I love Yaron , but he is responsible for the failure . Period . The fact that ' Toladano and Military Intelligence told me this and that , and I did n't go home for a year ' -- it 's all true . I admire him for that and for his wartime performance . But in my opinion , Yaron should have followed Udi Adam 's example during the first lull . The time has come for all these good people to take that step and not wait to be dismissed . " <h> But you 're overlooking the risk that the departure of these capable people , when no one in the political echelon takes responsibility , would leave the system exposed to reckless appointments . We 've already seen this with the police . <p> " Yes , but we must insist on the concept of responsibility . I demand it from Netanyahu , above all . He 's supposedly so strong and heroic in Filber 's polls ? Let him go to elections and seek the public 's trust . You see how he avoids attending ceremonies because he and others in his government are afraid to face the public . Sometimes , they even reach out to me , asking if I can talk to families to let them attend . <p> I still very much hope that the Israeli government has enough responsibility left to appoint the right people to replace those who resign . I also hope that one day the police chief realizes he 's been deceived . What 's happening there is that the police are essentially run by Kobi Yaakobi . He 's the Prison Service Commissioner , but anyone wanting to advance is aligned with Yaakobi . At some point , the police chief will understand this . Meanwhile , in all these investigations , it 's clear I underestimated when I described a sub-criminal culture . It 's actually a super-criminal culture . " <h> A year and two months later , even a state commission of inquiry is no longer relevant . <p> " Anyone who thinks they can pull a stunt with some sort of pseudo-state commission of inquiry is gravely mistaken . They found some useful idiot to propose setting up a crooked committee that would decide that a state commission is off the table . This wo n't pass . It must not pass . Without a state commission of inquiry , there will be no repair . Elections must be held , with the opposition putting egos aside . Whoever can lead the largest party should form a system that will fix Israel . " <h> Oh , you 've set me up perfectly for this . How many times in the past year have people come up to you and said , " Gadi , you need to be number one " ? <p> " A lot . And I listen to them and tell them it 's irrelevant . There are no elections right now , our party is n't in a terrible place -- we 're polling at 19 or 20 seats . It 's not what it used to be , but it 's not bad . For me , the idea of ' Israel first ' is genuine and deeply ingrained . Whether it 's Gadi or Benny leading , it 's less important than the need to establish a government that will take Israel to a better place . <p> Any decision about leadership will come from that necessity , not from blind loyalty . My loyalty is to the State of Israel . I have tremendous respect for Benny . He knows how to share leadership , and it 's a joint effort under his guidance . He sees me as a senior partner . Look , Lapid does n't say , ' Ram , Ben , Barak , and I , ' whereas Benny sees me as a partner in the journey . He founded the party ; he 's the first , and I need to do everything I can in the meantime to ensure we 're a worthy opposition and a major party . " <h> You 're not really succeeding as an opposition . <p> " We failed as an opposition in not being able to retain Gideon Sa'ar or bring decent people to our side . I 'm in touch with them . There are decent people in the political system who understand the situation , who know that the State of Israel is more important than Netanyahu , and they see where he 's taking this country . He 's done what he 's done ; he 's responsible for the greatest failure since the state 's founding . He 's deepened societal divides , brought an extremist Kahanist party into the halls of power , and endangered the Zionist project . They understand this . They see the disaster of Ben Gvir , a man who has failed in everything he 's done but still manages to enjoy support . I hope people wake up and realize he 's an empty vessel . When you see his ridiculous behavior , like a poor man 's version of Netanyahu , you ca n't miss that he 's someone from the minor leagues trying to play in the NBA . Now he 's boasting about killing Nasrallah . Even humor has its limits . " <h> Are you still an optimist ? <p> " Look at our young people . In this war , we 've rediscovered them . My son Guy told me that ever since Gal fell , he reads every eulogy for every fallen soldier . I asked him what he discovers in them . He told me the recurring theme is giving , volunteering , love for friends , family , and country . <p> At the funeral of Yogev , my nephew , the secretary of the community his parents helped establish in the Negev , Giv'ot Bar , read a post he had written . As I listened , I realized it was a love letter . I thought he had written it to his partner . It began like this : ' Hey , my love . It 's me . Yes , I know -- it 's been a long time since we last saw each other . I 've been away for a while . Do n't think for a moment it was easy for me without you . You know how much I love you . But you need to know and remember -- it was for you . For us . ' <p> And it goes on and on , and suddenly you realize he 's writing this letter to the country , after returning from a year of service for the Jewish Agency in Chicago , just before his enlistment . This was a 22-year-old kid , an active partner in establishing a new settlement in the Negev . His father was an officer in the Paratroopers , his mother a tough Golani instructor . <p> I 'll tell you something else . When Gal was killed , another soldier , Eyal Berkovitz , fell with him . From their regular service , Gal would always talk about Berko . Gal was from the Shayetet , Berko from Sayeret Matkal , but they served together in the same team in Maglan during their regular service and later in reserves . Berko became the team commander . Gal was n't one to give out compliments easily , but he spoke about Berko with superlatives . <p> When Gal was killed , I realized another soldier had fallen with him . When I got home , I was already informed that the second casualty was Berko . I probably knew this before his parents . He was born during their mission in New Zealand , grew up in Susya , and was in his first year of medical school , recently married to Michal . They fell together -- a soldier from Herzliya and a soldier from Susya - different worldviews , but they died together . They have a shared photo standing in Gaza holding the Israeli flag . <p> Their team members from Rafah just sent me a picture . They recreated that photo on a wall , with Gal and Berko holding the flag in life , and in death . <p> When I met Berko 's parents , his father came to me and said , ' Gadi , nice to meet you , you were my battalion commander . ' His mother , a school principal , came to the Knesset one day , to the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee , to speak with MKs . It was the most powerful experience I 've had since becoming a Knesset member . She spoke about her son Berko , a Torah scholar and brilliant young man who could have been a great rabbi but chose to enlist in Sayeret Matkal , Maglan , and the reserves , ultimately falling in defense of the homeland . There was dead silence in the room -- not even a mosquito buzzed . Even the ultra-Orthodox MKs sat silently and listened . <p> So if you ask me what encourages me , it 's that -- these people , who are here . We must be worthy of them . "
