<p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- As the investigation into a masked gunman who stalked and killed the head of one of the largest U.S. health insurers moves into its third day , possible leads have emerged about his travel before the shooting and a message scrawled on ammunition . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President Joe Biden is weighing whether to issue sweeping pardons for officials and allies who the White House fears could be unjustly targeted by President-elect Donald Trump 's administration . The preemptive move would be a novel and risky use of the president 's extraordinary constitutional power . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump is naming former U.S. Senator David Perdue of Georgia to be his ambassador to China . Trump says that as a former CEO , Perdue will bring " valuable expertise " to the U.S. relationship with China . <p> A Hamas official says international mediators have resumed negotiations with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza , and that he is hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war is within reach . <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- Hiring in the United States likely rebounded last month from a dismal October , when hurricanes and strikes reduced job growth to its lowest level in nearly four years . Friday 's jobs report is expected to show that employers added roughly 208,000 jobs in November . <p> DALLAS ( AP ) -- A federal judge has rejected a deal that would have let Boeing to plead guilty to a felony conspiracy charge and pay a fine for misleading U.S. regulators about the 737 Max jetliner before two of the planes crashed and 346 people died . <p> Host Terry Lipshetz is managing editor of the national newsroom for Lee Enterprises . Besides producing the daily Hot off the Wire news podcast , Terry conducts periodic interviews for this Behind the Headlines program , co-hosts the Streamed &amp; Screened movies and television program and is the former producer of Across the Sky , a podcast dedicated to weather and climate . <p> Theme music <p> The News Tonight , used under license from Soundstripe . YouTube clearance : ZR2MOTROGI4XAHRX
