<h> A weakened Syrian regime under Assad , therefore , is in Israel 's interest . But here 's the rub : Israel would like to see Assad weakened , but not overmuch , and not toppled . <p> THE SYRIAN civil war flared anew on November 27 with an offensive by an alliance of hardcore Sunni jihadists . Here , Iranians protest earlier this week in front of the Turkish Embassy in Tehran against Turkey 's support of the rebel alliance battling the regime in Syria . ( photo credit : Atta Kenare/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The sudden rekindling of the Syrian civil war has many Israelis looking to the northeast and asking the following question : " The enemy of my enemy is fighting my enemy , so whom am I for ? " <p> Or , in other words , who would Israel least like to see parked on its border with Syria : Iranian-backed Shia jihadist extremists or Turkish-backed Sunni jihadists ? <p> Since the answer is neither , Israel 's approach to the developments in Syria will be to stay out of the melee as long as its security interests are not directly or immediately threatened . As Yitzhak Shamir was once quoted as having said during the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s -- when two of the Jewish state 's fiercest enemies were weakening each other -- Israel can " wish both sides success . " <p> The Syrian civil war flared anew on November 27 with an offensive by an alliance of hardcore Sunni jihadists , once allied with al-Qaeda ( called Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ) , and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan-backed Islamists ( the Syrian National Army SNA ) against the northern Syrian city of Aleppo . This alliance has since taken most of Aleppo and moved on to its next target : Hama . <p> Few saw this coming , though it should not have been that much of a surprise . It was always clear that the Mideast war Hamas began on October 7 with its barbaric attack on Israel would have wider regional implications . What was not clear , but is now coming into focus , is what those implications and ramifications would be . RUSSIAN PRESIDENT Vladimir Putin meets with Syrian President Bashar Assad at the Kremlin in July . Russia 's influence in the Middle East extends well beyond diplomatic channels and into a consistent , visible military presence in Syria , say the writers . ( credit : SPUTNIK/REUTERS ) <p> The October 7 attack led to Hezbollah opening a front against Israel and driving 60,000 Israelis from their homes . This led , after 11 long months , to Operation Northern Arrows with the aim of bringing those residents back home . This operation resulted in exploding Hezbollah beepers , the decapitation of Hezbollah 's leadership , the severe degradation of Hezbollah 's capabilities , and the demonstration -- via an airstrike on Iran -- of the Islamic Republic 's vulnerability and penetrability . <p> And this sequence of events led to the decision by the Syrian rebels to try to retake Aleppo and reignite the civil war at a time when three of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's biggest allies are severely weakened or preoccupied : Moscow tied up in Ukraine , and Hezbollah and Iran at their weakest point in years due to the Israeli onslaught , which likely would not have happened were it not for October 7 . <p> With Assad 's three allies far from what they once were , the rebels saw an opportunity -- one that they had clearly been planning for -- and pounced . Not coincidentally , they struck on November 27 -- the same day the Hezbollah-Israeli ceasefire was announced . <p> Hamas 's attack is already reshaping the Mideast well beyond the borders of Gaza in ways few anticipated . It was clear after October 7 there would be strong aftershocks that would be widely felt . Just how strong and how widely felt is quickly becoming apparent . <p> The Syrian civil war , which began in 2011 , pitted a hard-to-keep-straight jumble of different actors with a myriad of different ideological interests one against the other . The renewed fighting is no different . Here 's a look at the prime interests of four key players in that drama : Israel , Turkey , Iran , and Russia . <h> Israel <p> Israel is an actor in this drama in that its actions in Lebanon and Syria significantly weakened two of Assad 's primary backers -- Hezbollah and Iran -- prompting the rebels to strike . But Israel is only an indirect actor , not actively involved in the fighting taking place in the north of Syria . <p> Nevertheless , Israel has definite interests in Syria , primarily to weaken the Iranian-Syrian-Hezbollah axis and prevent Iran from using Syria , as it has in the past , to rearm and build up Hezbollah . <p> A weakened Syrian regime under Assad , therefore , is in Israel 's interest . But here 's the rub : Israel would like to see Assad weakened , but not overmuch , and not toppled . <p> That 's the paradox . <p> Why weakened ? So that Syria will be unable for generations to pose a credible threat to Israel . The long-running civil war has taken Syria out of the circle of countries that can pose a conventional threat . Notice that in the current war , Assad has not opened up an additional front against the Jewish state , not wanting to give it any pretext to blast away at the Syrian army . <p> The IDF has struck some 70 targets in Syria over the past year , but those have primarily been Iranian and Hezbollah assets , not assets belonging to the Syrian army . <p> And why does Israel not want to see Assad overly weakened ? <p> Because Israel would like to see Damascus move away from Iran and toward the moderate Sunni countries like the United Arab Emirates . In recent months there has been positive movement in that direction , movement that will likely now come to a halt , as Assad will need more -- not less -- help from Iran . <p> If , in the past , the bargain offered to Assad was economic aid from the Gulf countries in exchange for moving out of Iran 's circle of influence , now Syria is in desperate need of boots on the ground -- which only Iran , or its proxies , can provide . <p> As to why Israel would not like to see Assad toppled , this is because that may lead to chaos , something rarely good for Israel . <p> Jerusalem , in general , likes predictability -- and Assad in Syria provides that . While Assad is no friend , Israel at least knows what to expect from him -- what he can and can not do , what he will and will not do . A new ruler in Damascus of the Sunni jihadist variety would be unpredictable . <p> If , under the guise of the reignited civil war , Israel sees Iran trying to transfer weapons to Hezbollah , it can be expected to act . But , short of that , it can be expected to let its enemies just slog it out -- all the while repeating the mantra : " Jerusalem is monitoring the situation . " <h> Turkey <p> For the rebels to launch the type of offensive that they did , they needed the go-ahead from Turkey , which Erdogan gave even though his backing of the rebels puts him at odds with Iran , Russia , and -- inasmuch as one of his interests is to squash the Kurds -- also the US . <p> Why risk this ? Because Erdogan is keen on resettling in northern Syria the estimated 3.5 million Syrian refugees who poured into his country since the start of the civil war , and because he wants to further undermine Kurdish efforts in the region . <p> Regarding resettlement of the refugees , Turkey and Syria have been in reconciliation talks for months ( Erdogan quickly backed the rebels when the civil war began ) . But these talks have gone nowhere , with Assad demanding that Turkey remove its troops from a security zone that Turkey , together with the SNA , have carved out in northern Syria . Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan addresses his supporters during a meeting in Ankara , Turkey , August 14 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/UMIT BEKTAS/FILE PHOTO ) <p> This rebel offensive now gives Erdogan added leverage against Assad to reach an agreement . <p> The Syrian refugee crisis has increasingly become a domestic issue in Turkey , where -- amid an economic crisis -- there has been a backlash against the refugees , something that hurt Erdogan 's party in local and parliamentary elections . He wants them to return precisely to the buffer zone in the north . <p> In addition , Erdogan is hoping that the fighting will help contain and potentially remove the threat he perceives from the Kurdish groups in northeastern Syria , which -- at least until President-elect Donald Trump comes into power on January 20 -- have US support . <p> The success of the rebels gives Erdogan increased leverage and strengthens his position in shaping Syria 's future . <h> Iran <p> Along with Assad , Iran is the biggest loser as the rebels gain ground . <p> Tehran has invested billions in Syria since the beginning of the civil war there , seeing the country as central to its efforts to encircle Israel with a " ring of fire " of proxies willing to do its bidding . <p> Iran 's interest is clear : to preserve Syria as a conduit of arms to Hezbollah and as a platform from which it can produce arms for the Lebanese terrorist group and rebuild its prime proxy . If Assad falls , that conduit is lost . <p> Like Hezbollah , however , Iran 's resources are not limitless , and -- because of the drubbing Hezbollah took in Lebanon -- the resources Iran can now allocate to save Assad are not the same as they were in the past . <p> Iran has militias comprised of Iraqis , Pakistanis , and Afghanis it may deploy , but these militias do not match Hezbollah in their battle readiness and training . Hezbollah , decimated by Israel , is in no position to send forces now to prop up Assad . <p> Syria is key to Iran 's regional influence , and if Assad falls , it loses that asset . <h> Russia <p> Russia intervened actively in 2015 in the Syrian civil war , and by so doing tipped the scales in Assad 's favor . Moscow 's intervention stemmed from several interests that are as important for the Kremlin today as they were then . <p> The first is that through Syria , Russia is able to project power throughout the Middle East and combat US influence in the region . <p> Assad gave Russia a much-coveted warmwater port on the Mediterranean in Tartus , as well as an air base near Latakia . Agreements with Assad will allow Russia to operate the port and air base for the next half century , if not longer . This has strategic significance for Moscow , which explains why , in the midst of its war with Ukraine , over the last week it has undertaken bombing runs against the rebels in northern Syria , trying to halt their advance . <p> In addition , Moscow has an interest in showing other allies that it will come to their aid and keep them from obliteration -- one reason the rapid defeat last week of Assad forces around Aleppo was such an embarrassment for the Kremlin . Assad 's poor showing undermines Russia 's position in the region and trashes the perception Russia wants to project that -- unlike the US -- it is a superpower on which its allies can rely to ensure they do not fall .
