<h> Loading .... <p> Before leaving office in January , President Joe Biden can still do much to bolster Ukraine 's security , and our own . The need for greater U.S. aid is obvious from reports from the war zone . <p> Last month , Russia 's all-out war against Ukraine crossed the 1,000-day mark . And just as it has since the first day of its invasion , the Russian military this past week relentlessly bombed not only Ukrainian army positions along the 600-mile front , but also houses , clinics , schools , power plants and factories all across Ukraine . <h> ABOUT THE AUTHOR <p> Mikhail Alexseev , a professor of international relations at San Diego State University , is the author of " Without Warning : Threat Assessment , Intelligence , and Global Struggle " and principal investigator of the War , Democracy and Society project funded by the National Science Foundation . <p> You 've seen footage of the utter destruction in Gaza from bombing campaigns : Imagine that on a scale of Texas , and you 'll have a sense of Ukrainians ' daily life . The attacks keep coming . In just one night last week , Russia launched a barrage of 188 missiles and drones aimed at 17 regions of Ukraine . <p> The Kremlin also keeps waging disinformation . It has grossly misrepresented that overnight blitz as a " response " to new Western aid and made overblown claims about Russia 's experimental ballistic missile , the Oreshnik , that hit Ukraine 's major industrial city of Dnipro a few days earlier . <p> And Ukraine is reporting a spike in the number of prisoners of war being murdered by Russians -- dozens of cases alleged in recent months , including 16 said to have been shot immediately after they surrendered . <p> Despite being often outmanned and outgunned , Ukrainian forces , with support from the U.S. and Europe , repelled most of the infantry assaults this past week -- 150 to 220 skirmishes each day . While ceding some territory here and there , they inflicted punishing losses on Russia . <p> Advertisement <p> The Ukrainian people are unbowed . Defying destruction and trauma , they continue to cherish and defend what Russia threatens to take away : About 85% of 418 respondents in my tracking poll in October with Ukraine 's Academy of Sciences Institute of Sociology said democracy and free speech are important to them . More than 80% said Ukraine will win the war . Around 90% said they will not compromise on Ukraine 's independence . <p> But change and uncertainty are in the air . In November , Russia gained territory in Ukraine faster than at any time since the early months of its full-scale invasion . Ukraine failed to get enough support from its allies to counter Russia 's devastating guided glide bombs . <p> In contrast , Russia got unprecedented assistance from North Korea , with an estimated 5 million artillery shells , 100 ballistic missiles and 11,000 troops sent into battle to counter Ukraine 's diversionary advance into Russia 's Kursk province . And the Kremlin is reaching out for more elsewhere , including to Houthis in Yemen and to the Taliban , with Moscow now set to remove that group from its list of terrorists . Russia 's economy is on a war footing and has grown more than twice as fast as the euro area over the last year despite Western sanctions . <p> In other words , Ukraine needs much more help to protect its sovereignty and hold the line against Russian expansionism . <p> Biden 's recent authorization for U.S.-supplied missiles to be used against targets in Russia has already enabled Ukraine to seriously damage an air base , an army base , a command hub , a powerful anti-aircraft complex and a major refinery and fuel depot that were sustaining Russia 's offensive . The first approved deliveries of U.S. antipersonnel land mines will help the beleaguered Ukrainian forces retain control of vital strongholds . <p> The next priority for the U.S. in the remainder of Biden 's term is to get the biggest bang possible out of the $6 billion that 's congressionally authorized to support Ukraine . <p> Advertisement <p> If the U.S. would supply Ukraine with about half of the 500 newly manufactured missiles in the American arsenal , Kyiv could deliver deadly blows to most of 200 military facilities within range that directly uphold the Russian offensive . ( So far , the U.S. has given Ukraine just 50 of these long-range missiles , known as the Army Tactical Missile Systems . ) <p> With three additional air defense systems , known as Patriot batteries , Ukraine can close vulnerabilities in its air defenses and even resume effectively targeting Russia 's glide-bomb-carrying aircraft . <p> If the U.S. would supply Ukraine with just one of the Terminal High-Altitude Air Defense batteries that we keep in reserve for contingency operations -- the same technology being sent to Israel to counter Iranian missiles -- Kyiv could take the sting out of Moscow 's longer-range ballistic missile threats . <p> Such strong actions taken in the next two months would also help the incoming Trump administration safeguard America 's strategic interests for years to come . Already , the president-elect has appointed Keith Kellogg , a retired Army general , to bring the Russia-Ukraine war to an end . <p> Kellogg 's plan is to use threats and inducements to get both sides to agree to a ceasefire along the current front lines . A hardened soldier and clear-eyed realist with a lifetime experience of great-power conflicts , the general is likely to learn quickly that Russian President Vladimir Putin will not settle for controlling one-fifth of Ukraine ; the Kremlin wants to get Ukraine and the West to capitulate . That would make Donald Trump look weak . After a new administration has been so publicly defeated , any deal with any nation on any issue will become much costlier and harder to achieve in the remainder of Trump 's four years . <p> To avoid this fiasco , Trump and his team will have to work out bolder and more effective ways to support Ukraine until Moscow has no choice but to accept a negotiated settlement with Ukraine 's security guarantees . Even if Trump 's priority is to end the war quickly , it would be dangerous to do that by pressuring Ukraine through diminished aid ; the only hope for a lasting peace that preserves U.S. standing would come through pressuring Russia . <p> Biden has a key role to play at this crucial juncture . The more boldly he can back Kyiv while still in office , the greater Ukraine 's chances of surviving as a free nation and the greater America 's chances of remaining the reigning superpower . <p> Comments are managed by our staff during regular business hours Monday through Friday as well as limited hours on Saturday and Sunday . Comments held for moderation outside of those hours may take longer to approve .
