<h> In fight for Syria , a battle for domination of the entire Middle East <p> A portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is pictured with its frame broken , in a Syrian regime 's Political Security Branch facility on the outskirts of the central city of Hama.OMAR HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images <p> As armed rebels have advanced at lightning speed in recent days from the north of Syria toward the capital , Damascus , footage online showed statues of the Assad dynasty -- which has kept the country in its authoritarian grip for over 50 years -- crashing to the ground . <p> But as the figures of President Bashar Assad 's deceased father and brother fell to cries of " God is Great ! " the question looming over the astonishingly rapid resurrection of the torpid civil war into a five-alarm fire is whether the rebels might topple the president himself . <p> The commander of the rebel alliance , Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who depicts himself as a reformed zealot from Al Qaeda , has bluntly made that point . <p> " Our goal is to liberate Syria from this oppressive regime , " he said in a video interview with The New York Times . <p> Advertisement <p> Regardless of whether the rebels succeed , experts say an expected brutal fight to control Damascus , and by extension Syria , would constitute the most important confrontation yet in the struggle to remake the region , one ignited Oct. 7 , 2023 , with the Hamas-led attack on Israel . <p> The main regional players -- Israel , Iran , and Turkey -- all have a stake in the outcome , which means the ripples will affect not just the Middle East but global powers such as the United States and Russia . <p> If the war in the Gaza Strip is the worst manifestation yet of the seemingly intractable Israel-Palestinian dispute , which drew in the armed Lebanese group Hezbollah , analysts call the fight for Syria a far more important struggle to dominate a regional crossroads that influences the entire Middle East . <p> " Syria is the barometer for how power dynamics in the region are changing , " said Mona Yacoubian , head of the Middle East and North Africa Center at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington . " It is in for a period of chaos in a region that is already on fire . " <p> Israel 's strategists refer to Syria as the " hub of hubs , " which has served as a supply conduit for soldiers and arms to places like southern Lebanon . There , Hezbollah , Iran 's main regional ally , held sway before Israel decimated the group 's ranks by assassinating its longtime leader and most of his top echelon . Israel also launched direct attacks on strategic air defenses in Iran . <p> Advertisement <p> Israel is determined to prevent Iran , which has propped up the Assad regime , from reestablishing those supply lines . It is also not clear how Israel would react to an Islamist-style government in Syria should Assad 's regime fall , especially a government beholden to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who has been a harsh critic because of the Gaza war . <p> Iran knows that if it loses Assad and its sway over Damascus , it is game over for its attempt to fortify a crescent of Shiite Muslim proxy forces from Lebanon to Iraq to Yemen that can threaten Israel . Nonetheless on Friday , Iran , after more than a decade of staunch support for Assad , began evacuating from Syria top military commanders of its powerful Quds Force and other personnel , according to Iranian and regional officials . <p> Some analysts see the hand of Erdogan in the sweeping advance of the main Syrian rebel group , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , or the Organization for the Liberation of the Levant . Turkey seized an opportunity to increase its influence at a time when Iran was beleaguered , analysts said , and it wants the 3 million Syrian refugees who fled to its territory because of the civil war to return home . <p> Damascus is the target , Erdogan told reporters after Friday prayers in Istanbul . " The opposition 's march continues , " he said . " Our wish is that this march in Syria continues without incident . " <p> In Russia , which had made bolstering Assad a cornerstone of its Middle East policy for almost a decade , President Vladimir Putin faces a dilemma : beef up his country 's forces there to aid Syria and risk shortchanging his troops in Ukraine , where he needs every hand to prosecute the war . <p> Advertisement <p> In a telling sign of diminishing confidence , Russia announced Friday that its citizens should leave Syria . <p> Russia and Iran are not the only nations ordering evacuations . <p> The US State Department also encouraged Americans to leave . Washington has not known quite what to do about Syria for more than a decade , basically letting its policy drift after Russia moved in 2015 to intervene there militarily , analysts said . Now , Washington faces a moment of transition between two administrations , with the incoming president , Donald Trump , having once referred to Syria as " sand and death . " <p> It is unclear how much time all these governments have to act , given the volatile situation on the ground . In little over a week , Syrian rebels have captured two of the country 's most important cities along the north-south corridor that forms the country 's main spine . <p> The rebels have been preparing for this offensive for more than a year , said Ibrahim Hamidi , Syrian editor of Al-Majalla , an online current affairs magazine based in London . On the surface , the war might resemble the period around 2014 , when Assad was on the ropes and Iran and Russia intervened . That was then . <p> " The whole equation is different now , " Hamidi said . <p> Iran and Hezbollah , the main forces buttressing the Assad regime , have been seriously weakened from their fight with Israel . And Russia , whose air force used to carpet-bomb Syrian rebel strongholds , is preoccupied by its war in Ukraine . While Russia has resumed aerial bombardments in Syria , it is on a far smaller scale . <p> First to fall was the city of Aleppo , Syria 's economic capital , and then Hama , its breadbasket . The rebel forces are now putting pressure on Homs , which is a little more than 100 miles north of Damascus and the strategic hinge linking the country 's heartland to the Mediterranean Sea and the coastal center of the Alawites , a minority Shiite Muslim sect that dominates the regime . <p> Advertisement <p> Civilians began to flee Homs in earnest Friday . <p> Syria has relied heavily on Iranian militias for ground troops . But Israeli missile attacks on Syria have thinned the ranks of senior Iranian militia commanders , as well as supply lines . <p> And Friday , Kurdish forces in northeast Syria , who have long been buttressed by a contingent of about 900 US troops , reportedly took control of the main border crossing that Iranian forces used to enter Syria from Iraq . <p> As for Hezbollah , in 2013 , its forces poured over the border from Lebanon to smash the armed opposition at Qusayr . And some of its men have now deployed to defend Homs , said a Hezbollah official in Damascus , speaking on the condition of anonymity for security reasons . <p> But after months of fighting Israel in Lebanon , it is unclear how many forces Hezbollah has left to deploy to Syria . <p> When it comes to the Syrian army , some of the strongest units , the Fourth Armored Division and the Republican Guards , have long been stationed around Damascus with the idea of making it coup-proof . But lack of training and low salaries have taken their toll , with regular troops melting away rather than confronting the rebels . <p> " You need loyal , reliable troops to hold territory , and they are not there , " said Andrew J. Tabler , a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and a former US government official on security issues . <p> Advertisement <p> Many analysts consider the central Syrian state a hollow shell . " The Assad regime is unbelievably rickety , " Tabler said . " It is like an old car put together with spare parts by unknown mechanics . " <p> Since the Obama administration , Washington has been fearful of what was called " catastrophic success : " having Assad fall , only to be replaced by a jihadi regime . That fear remains , although Golani , who has held authoritarian control of northwestern Idlib province for years , attempted through outreach to minorities and other moderate steps to recalibrate his reputation as a religious nationalist rather than a jihadi . <p> The alliance , which broke ties with Al Qaeda in 2016 but remains labeled a terrorist organization by the United States , the European Union , and the United Nations , has become a broader coalition that includes more moderate factions . <p> Yet , memories of the disasters that accompanied the effort to glue together a coalition Iraqi government are still fresh . <p> " This is all about the balance of power between these regional players in the Levant , where Syria sits at the heart , " said Firas Maksad , a senior fellow and Syria expert at the Middle East Institute based in Washington .
