<h> Social Media Has Little Sympathy for Murdered Health Insurance Exec <p> The fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson outside a midtown Manhattan hotel on Wednesday morning was a shock to the city and the nation . But as police hunted for the missing gunman in what they called a " premeditated , preplanned , targeted attack , " social media erupted with contempt for the health insurance industry he represented -- and his company in particular . <p> " Saw mainstream news coverage about the killing of the CEO of United Healthcare on TikTok and I think political and industry leaders might want to read the comments and think hard about them , " wrote political activist Tobita Chow in a post on X , formerly Twitter . In screenshots he shared , TikTok users reacted to the story with blistering references to the costly and often unnavigable for-profit U.S. health insurance system . " Sending prior authorization , denied claims , collections &amp; prayers to his family , " wrote one . <p> " As someone covered under UnitedHealthCare I can completely understand the actions taken , " wrote an X user replying to a news link about Thompson 's murder " being investigated as a possible hit , " according to a statement from law enforcement . " Did he have a pre-existing condition ? " asked another . And under an ABC News TikTok on police officers ' efforts to find the killer , a user asked , " Why are they investigating this ? " <p> " Got a push notification to exercise caution because the United Healthcare shooter is still at large , " noted standup comic Samantha Ruddy in her own X post . " I personally do not feel like I am on the shooter 's radar because I am not the CEO of a highly divisive multi billion dollar insurance company . " <p> Thompson 's violent death outside a hotel where UnitedHealthcare was hosting an investor conference did n't just prompt scathing jokes but heated criticism of the insurer he had helmed since 2021 . One image that made the rounds online was a chart from the personal finance website ValuePenguin , which found that UnitedHealthcare denies 32 percent of all in-network claims relating to individual health insurance plans -- twice the industry average . Some pointed to headlines describing how UnitedHealthcare has used an allegedly faulty AI algorithm to assess claims and deny care for seriously ill patients on private Medicare Advantage plans , as described in an ongoing class-action lawsuit brought by the estates of two deceased people who were denied coverage for their care at an extended-care facility . <p> Among those who amplified that story was right-wing podcaster Tim Pool , suggesting that Americans across the political spectrum can find rare consensus when it comes to disdain for their free-market health care system . " It 's actually kind of touching that the one thing that can bring together our fractious and disunited country is celebrating the assassination of a health insurance CEO , " wrote University of Virginia historian David Austin Walsh on X. <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Still , a few dissenters tried to shame anyone making light of the slaying . Rep. Dean Phillips of Minnesota , who unsuccessfully challenged President Joe Biden for the 2024 Democratic Party presidential nomination , drew an odd comparison to Israel 's ongoing bombardment of Gaza and Lebanon . " Seems like leftists opposed to killing terrorists in the Middle East support killing CEOs in Midtown Manhattan , " he fumed on X , adding , " Sick . " Both Sen. Amy Klobuchar and Gov . Tim Walz of Minnesota , where UnitedHealthcare is based , shared statements of condolence . <p> While the shooter 's identity and motive are presently unknown , Thompson 's wife , Paulette Thompson , told NBC News that he had received threats and that they may have involved issues with a customer 's " lack of coverage . " The NYPD has released surveillance images of the suspect , who was masked and wearing a black jacket with a gray backpack , and have offered a $10,000 reward for information regarding the homicide . <p> Another ongoing lawsuit against UnitedHealthcare 's parent company , UnitedHealth Group , named Thompson along with two other top executives . A pension for firefighters in the city of Hollywood , Florida , filed the securities fraud class action earlier this year , accusing Thompson and his colleagues of selling $120 million of their UnitedHealth shares after learning of a U.S. Justice Department antitrust investigation of the company -- but before the probe became public . <p> Between coverage of such alleged profiteering , UnitedHealthcare 's grim reputation , and disclosures of the millions the company spends on lobbying and Thompson 's $10 million salary , there was hardly a shortage of material for vicious riffs . " It 's no surprise that gallows humor is responding to the assassination of a gallows business model CEO , " observed Dr. Steven Thrasher in a post on X. A professor at Northwestern University 's Medill School , Thrasher is the author of The Viral Underclass , a book about inequalities in health care that determine who has privileged access to medical resources . " Health insurances lets ghouls decide whether live or die based upon how much your life or death will affect shareholder value . " <p> For once , too , it seemed that no extremist factions were quick to blame the murder on ideological opponents , as they typically have in the wake of high-profile shootings throughout the U.S. in recent years ( save one Fox News commentator who suggested the NYPD had n't yet located the shooter because they were too busy dealing with immigrant crime ) . Online influencers known to shape a narrative before the facts emerge instead proved willing to wait and see where the case would lead . Within the feverish climate of social media , this made for an unfamiliar sort of restraint -- almost as unusual as the street homicide of an American businessman .
