<h> Roman Mendez , 6 , and Elias Wolford , 5 , were in critical but stable condition following the attack on the Feather River School of Seventh-Day Adventists in Palermo by gunman Glenn Litton . <p> Roman Mendez , age 6 , and Elias Wolford , age 5 , who were shot in a California kindergarten , ( photo credit : Butte County Sherriff ) <p> Two kindergarten-age boys were shot at a Seventh-Day Adventist Christian school in California on Wednesday by a man with a lengthy criminal and mental health history claiming to be taking revenge of American involvement with a supposed Gaza " genocide " and attacks on Yemen , according to a Thursday Butte County Sherriff 's office briefing . <p> Roman Mendez , 6 , and Elias Wolford , 5 , were in critical but stable condition following the attack on the Feather River School of Seventh-Day Adventists in Palermo by gunman Glenn Litton . <p> The 56-year-old assailant , who was found at the school by first responders with a fatal self-inflicted gunshot wound , had left a statement justifying the shooting as revenge for the ongoing Israeli military operation against Hamas in Gaza and operations to counter Ansar Allah 's maritime terrorism and missile attacks . <p> " Countermeasures involving child execution has now been imposed at the Seventh Day Adventist school in California , United States by the International Alliance , " read the manifesto shared by Butte County Sherriff Kory Honea at the Thursday briefing . " I , Lieutenant Glenn Litton of the Alliance , carried out countermeasures in necessitated response to America 's involvement with genocide and oppression of Palestinians along with attacks towards Yemen . " <p> Honea noted that Litton had " significant " mental health issues and had likely cobbled together information from various different sources to create a different reality . The shooter , Glenn Litton , age 56 ( credit : Butte County Sherriff ) <p> Law enforcement was working to identify if there was indeed an organization by the name of " International Alliance " or if it was a fabrication of a Litton 's . Investigators have thus far found no indication that such an organization exists . <p> Honea said that the suspect had explored other Seventh Day Adventist schools as alternative targets . Litton had attended a Seventh Day Adventist school as a young man , and had targeted the religious group due to his " notions " about the Christian movement 's activities . <p> Litton , who according to Honea had a lengthy criminal record and mental health issues , arrived at the school on Wednesday after having booked an uber under the name Mark Hansen . Litton had reportedly scheduled an appointment with the school 's administrators under the alias Michael Sanders , an identity that he had previously used in a November license forgery and theft of a U-Haul truck . Under the guise of Sanders , Litton pretended to be interested in enrolling his fictitious grandson at the school . <p> After a tour of the facilities , Honea said that Litton headed toward the school 's parking lot , then turned toward the playground . The attacker pulled out a concealed ghost gun pistol and shot the two boys . <p> Honea said that the children would likely have to undergo multiple surgeries and a lengthy recovery process . <p> " The people that truly matter are the victims , " rather that the perpetrator , Honea remarked . <h> Community initiatives <p> Several community initiatives have been organized to aid the families . The North Valley Community foundation is holding an online fundraiser and a chili buffest fundraiser is set to be held on Monday at the Oroville Southside Community Center . A candelight prayer vigil was scheduled for Friday in front of the downtown Oroville Christmas tree . <p> Oroville Mayor David Pittman said that the entire community was thinking and praying for the wounded boys and all the students , staff , and families associated with the school . <p> " Sadly , our schools must plan and train for these kinds of events and pray they never occur , " Pittman said in a Thursday statement . " Our schools must be safe places . To the Feather River Adventist School staff , you and your students have suffered unimaginable trauma today . We , as a community , are here to support you through your healing . " <p> Litton was homeless and moved between locations and hotels in the Sacramento and Chico areas . His criminal history included robbery , forgery , and theft . In March Litton stole over 1000 dollars from the cash register of the CVS pharmacy at which he worked .
