<h> For 14 months , an end to Israeli military operations in Gaza was Hezbollah 's condition for ceasing its attacks , which have claimed the lives of 45 civilians in Israel 's North . <p> KIRYAT SHMONA is still a ghost town . Shops are shuttered and unmanned military vehicles are scattered around Israel 's northernmost city . ( photo credit : Nicholas potter ) <p> Two days after the ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah came into effect , Kiryat Shmona was still a ghost town . Shops were shuttered . A high-rise apartment building in the center looked abandoned . <p> Unmanned military vehicles were scattered around Israel 's northernmost city , situated just 5 km. south and 2 km. east of the border with Lebanon . Before the evacuation , it was home to some 20,000 residents . Now , only the faint buzz of drones swirling high above filled the eerily quiet streets . <p> On October 8 , 2023 , the Islamist terrorist organization began launching rockets and artillery at border communities in the North , displacing more than 96,000 Israelis living within firing range . In Kiryat Shmona , dozens of family homes were directly hit and over 1,000 more damaged . Schools , kindergartens , and the central bus station were also struck . <p> Hezbollah framed the attacks as an act of solidarity with Hamas , who led an assault in the South of Israel on October 7 , killing some 1,200 people and abducting 250 to Gaza . According to the IDF , Hezbollah had planned to unleash similar carnage in the North . Israel responded with drone strikes and artillery fire , preventing further attacks but also displacing more than a million Lebanese and killing at least 3,768 , according to Lebanon 's health ministry , which does not differentiate between Hezbollah terrorists and civilians . <p> For 14 months , an end to Israeli military operations in Gaza was Hezbollah 's condition for ceasing its attacks , which have claimed the lives of 45 civilians in Israel 's North . But after the IDF decapitated Hezbollah 's leadership in September and launched a ground invasion in October , the terrorist organization softened its demands , and a 60-day ceasefire was brokered , with the war in Gaza far from over . <p> At least in Gonen , prewar population 372 , a kibbutz on the northern border just outside the pre-ceasefire evacuation zone , life is slowly returning to normal . Past the yellow gate protected by a lone , armed guard , past the burned-out Syrian tank from the Yom Kippur war in 1973 , Ayelet Lev , 50 , was sitting at home in her kitchen , looking out the window at the backdrop of the Lebanese mountains . " This view is one of the reasons I love living here , " she says triumphantly . <h> Casualties of war <p> AFTER OCTOBER 7 , her family evacuated to the Kinneret ( the Sea of Galilee ) . Lev called her dog 's name , Louis , and a one-eyed terrier jumps onto her lap . " We say he 's the first war casualty in this family , " she jests . He was attacked by another dog after the relocation . <p> ' I SAID , we 're staying , I do n't care . ' For Ayelet Lev , the worst thing about the past 14 months was not the rockets but the emptiness of the region . ( credit : Nicholas Potter ) <p> Lev , her husband and four kids lasted a month at the Kinneret before moving back to Gonen . " I said , we 're staying , I do n't care , " Lev recalls . " I will never leave here , even if more rockets fall . It 's my house and I love it , " she adds defiantly . And then the tears started . " People who stayed here really felt the war " -- the sirens , rocket barrages , explosions , and hours spent in safe rooms . <p> When asked about the recent ceasefire , Lev took a deep breath . " It 's complicated , " she says . " On the one hand , I want this war to stop , because every soldier who lost his life is one too many . " Her 18-year-old son is about to enlist . " I do n't want him to go there or to Gaza . " And her 12-year-old daughter has been left afraid by the constant barrage of rockets . But on the other hand , she says , many soldiers have told her that they want more time to finish what they started -- referring to dismantling Hezbollah 's rich arsenal along the border . " You can never trust Hezbollah , " she says . <p> Yet for Lev , the worst thing about the past 14 months was not the rockets but the emptiness of the Galilee . " Everything is abandoned . Friends were evacuated to hotels and are still afraid to come back , " she says . Some are reluctant to take their children out of the new schools they have been relocated to , in order to move back . Her own decision to return was not out of bravery , Lev says , but because she can not think of living anywhere else . <p> It 's not difficult to see why . Despite two military helicopters circling overhead and the occasional deep boom in the distance , even after the ceasefire , Gonen is an idyllic place . Vast swaths of green fields are crowned by mountain ridges . The air is fresh , the kibbutz community close-knit . It provides a sense of familiarity and , paradoxically , perhaps even security . Lev drives around it in a golf cart . <p> Before the war , Lev worked with people with special needs and trauma , assisting them in finding employment or starting businesses . But after a rocket fell on her office and her clients were evacuated , she was left without a job . Now , she volunteers , giving massages to soldiers stationed nearby . " I am so proud to be part of this community , this country , " she says . " Since the war , I have met such brave people . " <p> Lev is just one of many volunteering in the North . In Lahavot Habashan , a neighboring kibbutz , some 350 cooks set up an impromptu kitchen to feed up to 1,000 troops . Tables stacked with canned goods sit above crates filled with eggplants and bread . " I 'm here for the good food , " grins one young soldier with a pita in his hand . " We do n't know if Hezbollah will hold the ceasefire , but we 're ready , " says another . <p> Liat , 55 , seemed to be in charge of the operation . " They are away from home and I have to be a mother to them , " she says . But the money raised to fund the kitchen is drying up , Liat explains . <p> When asked whether military catering is not the responsibility of the government , her tone became noticeably irritated . " You want to talk about what the government should do ? The government should bring the hostages home , but instead they are only thinking about themselves . " <p> Liat was particularly critical of Sara Netanyahu , the prime minister 's wife . " She is now claiming she is a victim of terror because protesters fired a flare near her house , " she says in disbelief . " I teach pottery , and one of my students is from Metulla , at the Lebanese border . She visited her house yesterday for the first time since the ceasefire , and it 's destroyed . She is broken . There 's nothing left . And Sara Netanyahu wants to be the victim here ? " <p> It 's a frustration felt by many along the northern border . The fallout from October 7 has ushered in a new , ambivalent reality , one marked by equal parts hope and despair . <p> " Since the war , my bond to the region has become stronger , " says Nitzan Lavi , 38 , sitting at home in the 700-strong community of Kfar Szold , a kibbutz just north of Lev 's home in Gonen , " but also my bond to being Israeli and being Jewish . " <p> Lavi 's father immigrated to Israel from Iraq . Now she works in hi-tech . And her generation was the one that began to forget just how fragile everything is , she says . " We thought we could live in London , in Berlin , anywhere , but since October 7 , we have come to understand that this just is n't the case . " <h> ' We are on our own here ' <p> But Kfar Szold is far from a safe haven . As Hamas and other terrorist groups stormed the Gaza border on October 7 , Lavi wondered whether her community would be next . As the ensuing war began , Lavi , her partner and two boys sought safety elsewhere further south . <p> After a month , they returned home , along with many other kibbutzniks . Residents of Kfar Szold , just outside the evacuation zone , received no government help , Lavi criticizes . " We are on our own here . " For some , financial considerations played a role in their return , unable to sell their homes in the foreseeable future due to the war . <p> RESIDENTS OF Kfar Szold , just outside the evacuation zone , have received no government help , Nitzan Lavi told ' The Jerusalem Post . ' ( credit : Nicholas Potter ) TODAY , KFAR SZOLD was quiet . But for the past 14 months , Lavi and her partner had been unable to leave the gated kibbutz , a leafy , hilly community nestled next to the Golan Heights , as Hezbollah rockets are less likely to be intercepted over open rural areas . Loud explosions occurred day and night , she recalls . Visits to the safe room were frequent . <p> The community grew closer together as a result , Lavi explains , opening a local pub and distilling its own arak . The kibbutzniks also set up an education center , where volunteers teach kids . " We also celebrated Passover together as a kibbutz , for the first time in 20 or 30 years . " Lavi finds it heartwarming how her community has come together , during the hardest of times . " Maybe we 're finding our way back to what a kibbutz once was , to this feeling of solidarity , " she says . <p> After the ceasefire announcement , one of the first things Lavi and her partner did was to go for a walk with their dog along the nearby Banyas River , one of their favorite spots . It was a return to normality after so many months of sirens . But the 20 small concrete bunkers installed since October 7 and dotted around the kibbutz are a continuous reminder that this rural tranquility can be broken at any minute , in an area in which residents have just seconds to seek shelter after rocket fire . <p> " It was n't the feeling of relief that we were all hoping to have , " Lavi says of the recent ceasefire announcement , which her nine-year-old son , scared , had eagerly awaited . Lavi also remains skeptical of the UN peace keeping force UNIFIL , which had failed to prevent Hezbollah from rearming along the border , and which she says she does not trust . " There was n't a moment of celebration and excitement . It 's not over . It 's definitely not peace . " <p> The ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah , just days old , has already been broken several times . On Monday , the terrorist organization fired rockets at Mount Dov on the Golan Heights , citing Israeli breaches of the ceasefire . Israel , which responded on Monday with a wave of airstrikes throughout Lebanon directed at rocket launchers , says it had been targeting Hezbollah terrorists breaching the ceasefire themselves . <p> " From a security perspective , we highly appreciate the military achievements of the IDF in Lebanon , " says Sarit Zehavi , a reservist lieutenant colonel in the IDF and founder of the NGO Alma , which specializes in security policy on the northern border . " But we are afraid that these achievements will be eroded very quickly . " <p> Zehavi warns that Hezbollah will use the ceasefire to rearm and recover , eventually posing a similar threat as before . Zehavi , who herself lives just 9 kilometers from the Lebanese border , stresses the need for a complementary diplomatic agreement that ensures the Lebanese government truly has a new approach to Hezbollah , which operates as a highly armed shadow state within the country . <p> " But the main address here is not Beirut , " Zehavi adds , " but Tehran . " Hezbollah was established in the 1980s under the auspices of the mullah regime in Iran , which has provided it with ample funding ever since . " Only once Iran is no longer involved in Lebanon will there be more hope for peace in the region . " <p> Zehavi is at least happy that her daughter can finally return to her school after the ceasefire . " But especially those with children wo n't return just yet , " she says , " at least not during the current school year , " which does not end until June 2025 . <p> Yael Cohen and her family can not imagine moving back to their home in Kibbutz Eilon , just 3 kilometers from the Lebanese border , at least not for the foreseeable future . Having grown up there , Cohen was well acquainted with the usual skirmishes along the border . But on October 7 , 2023 , she , her wife and nine-year-old son barricaded themselves in their bedroom , terrified that the scenes along the Gazan border could also be repeated in the North . The next morning , they were evacuated to Jerusalem . <p> " We were terrified , but we felt lucky , " Cohen , a 38-year-old volleyball coach , recalls . Lucky to have escaped , to have survived . After five months at her parents ' house , they relocated in March 2024 to the suburbs of Seattle in the US . " We feel good here , " she says via telephone . Her son had to start English from scratch , but quickly integrated at school . <p> As news of an impending ceasefire broke , Cohen did not take it seriously , she says . " And I still do n't . " Although some residents are now returning to Eilon , she no longer feels safe there . In Seattle , Cohen and her family sleep safe and sound , she says . " A bubble has burst , and it changes everything . " Even if she one day hopes to return .
