<p> Is the small amount of copper these mines would yield worth our clean water ? <p> December 5 , 2024 at 11:30PM <p> " Is the small amount of copper and nickel that these mines would add to the global supply chain worth it ? " writes Chris Knopf . " Should we risk the Boundary Waters and the clean waters that make Minnesota so famous and such a great place to live ? " ( Mitchel Boeck/Tribune News Service ) <p> Antofagasta , the Chilean mining conglomerate seeking to mine near the Boundary Waters , has an alarming history of environmental violations including toxic spills , water pollution and destruction of cultural heritage sites . The company has been sued by the Chilean State for allegedly contaminating groundwater and , more recently , not only pushed through a controversial pipeline project but also sued 27 local protesters who opposed the project due to environmental concerns . Given copper-sulfide mining 's inherent risks of acid mine drainage and heavy metal contamination , should we welcome a foreign corporation with its track record of both environmental destruction and legal intimidation to operate near the Boundary Waters ? <p> Now , you ca n't answer " how " they are going to mine without addressing the fact that this type of mining has a perfect track record of pollution . The claim that Minnesota has a " non-detect " standard , in which no amount of pollution is allowed from a mine , is simply false . Let 's remember that in 2018 Minnesota permitted another copper-sulfide mine , PolyMet , and that permit would have allowed the mine to discharge almost 16 million gallons of polluted water each year . <p> As for " why , " Lucas is right : Our modern world does need minerals such as copper and nickel . But is the small amount of copper and nickel that these mines would add to the global supply chain worth it ? Should we risk the Boundary Waters and the clean waters that make Minnesota so famous and such a great place to live ? <p> Do we really want this Chilean-owned mining company operating a polluting mine on the doorsteps of the Boundary Waters ? <p> Chris Knopf , St. Paul <p> The writer is executive director of Friends of the Boundary Waters Wilderness . <p> *** <p> A pro-mining counterpoint by Lucas , executive director of MiningMinnesota , an organization created for this purpose , raises important questions such as " how ? " and " by whom ? " and " why ? " that need to be addressed before actual mining should begin . <p> We know the answer to " why ? " Since the beginning of mining , thousands of years ago , it has always been greed ; any attempt to claim other motives is absurd . But OK , greed sometimes works out . " By whom ? " and " how ? " are almost as easy . Hopefully by folks with proven track records of protecting the environment , using proven methods for protecting the environment -- i.e. , not by multinational companies controlled by interests known for destroying the environment , using dangerous , destructive or experimental technologies . <p> Oddly , Lucas skips " when ? " This is the easiest question of all . When all reasonable people are convinced that the " by whom ? " and the " how ? " have been satisfactorily addressed . It 's not like these reserves of copper , nickel , etc. are going to be less valuable in the future . <p> John K. Trepp , Minneapolis <h> DEMOCRATS ' LOSS <h> Progressivism is the problem <p> Saturday 's juxtaposition of a political cartoon with a Democrat writing on a chalkboard " Those who do n't learn from history are doomed to repeat it " with the article about Rep. Ilhan Omar lecturing Democrats about why we lost ( " Omar has feedback for Harris campaign , " front page , Nov. 30 ) -- caught my attention . Her message that if Democrats had veered more progressive we 'd have done better could n't be more wrong . It is her and her " defund the police " faction that turned off the voters we need to attract . Our party needs to look in the mirror and temper our obsession with lecturing people about race , gender , immigration , masks and pronouns so we can focus on things people care about like health care and the environment . <p> Our wokeness is not simply annoying , a segment of voters used it as justification to turn over the keys to a dangerous , despicable narcissist . A large group of voters were more disturbed by our excesses than the excesses of a vulgar , dishonest , unstable wannabe dictator . Blue-collar men no longer feel welcome in our increasingly white-collar , urban , feminized party . I 'll go to my grave baffled how people can be OK with someone like Donald Trump . I 'll still take my side 's values , policies and well-intentioned naivete to the anger , danger and fear of MAGA . But if we do n't listen , learn , adapt and moderate -- we 're going to continue to lose elections , and possibly our democracy . <p> Ryan Pulkrabek , Minneapolis <p> *** <p> Rep. Omar 's assertion that Kamala Harris and Tim Walz lost because their message was not far enough to the left is clearly off base . Trump 's ( unfortunate in my opinion ) win was because the majority of voters were unhappy with the Biden/Harris administration 's actions ( and inactions ) on hot button issues including the surge at the southern border , inflation exacerbated by government overspending and transgender women in women 's sports competitions . Ukraine and Gaza will suffer the collateral damage of the Democratic Party 's loss of the election and failure to decisively address the voters ' priorities . <p> Aristotle maintains we should feel pain in the presence of wrongdoing . Suffering and experiencing pain 's silent despair , then , are as essential to the human spirit as any laughter amid great moments of satire . Both laughter and tears maintain equanimity and sanity in trying times , and both mobilize ethical action to address wrongdoings . <p> As much as Fox tries to strike a balance between laughter and tears , he gives silence , sorrow and suffering short shrift . But he 's in the comedy business , and the comedy business gets paid by the laugh . <p> I 'll laugh again ; I 'm sure of it . But with the election of Trump , half the voters just suffered a painful blow that may soon court injustices against vulnerable and disenfranchised people worldwide for the foreseeable future . Which is why I ca n't get out of my head a little dark humor from S ? ren Kierkegaard : <p> " In a theater , it happened that a fire started offstage . The clown came out to tell the audience . They thought it was a joke and applauded . He told them again , and they became still more hilarious . This is the way , I suppose , that the world will be destroyed -- amid the universal hilarity of wits and wags who think it is all a joke . " <p> James Lorentzen , St. Paul <h> LOGAN PARK DEBATE <h> Listen to artists <p> With regard to the debate between city planners and the working artists of the northeast Minneapolis Logan Park district , I have one word of advice : Listen . Listen , that is , to the artists . And make sure that their views are an integral factor in any development decision for that rare and unique area ( " ' There 's a vibe to the atmosphere , ' " Nov. 28 ) . <p> Has Minneapolis learned nothing from generations of bulldozing unique buildings and neighborhoods , only to replace them with bland commercial kitsch ? When money is the only real factor in planning , you are taking the easy way out -- and you get what you pay for . <p> As someone born and raised here and who spent many years living in Providence , R.I. , I say : Take a lesson from that city -- which has honed its skills ( literally for centuries ) in cultural and historic preservation . In so doing , they have produced a tremendous renaissance -- both economic and cultural -- for that tough old industrial town . <p> Listen to the artists . Work with them . Merely to advance your own priorities , dismissing theirs , is a zero-sum game , which nobody wins . Do n't demolish a vibrant neighborhood for the sake of standardized banality ! Bureaucrats , think like artists -- that is , out of the box .
