<p> The following article is an excerpt from the new edition of " In Review by David Ehrlich , " a biweekly newsletter in whichour Chief Film Critic and Head Reviews Editor rounds up the site 's latest reviews and muses about current events in the movie world . Subscribe here to receive the newsletter in your inbox every other Friday . <p> This week , IndieWire published our list of the 25 best films of the year , and once again it was objectively correct , obviously infallible , and universally celebrated by our readers . I joke , I joke ( we straight up forgot to include " Babygirl , " even though our entire staff is obsessed with it ) , but the Twitter pushback did seem to be much lighter than usual . Maybe the conversation has just shifted over to Reddit and Bluesky , or maybe @LisanAlGaib69 has simply come to accept that a zany Jewish comedy about Jason Schwartzman falling in love with Carol Kane might be a superior achievement to " Dune : Part 2 . " ( I just looked it up and @LisanAlGaib69 is a real account that belongs to someone named Gustavo , whose one and only post is a heartfelt eulogy for Stan Lee from 2018 . I hope they 're doing well . ) <p> Anyway , if the fear was that the residual impact of last year 's strikes would make 2024 a miserable year for good movies , the process of watching the likes of " Janet Planet , " " Chicken for Linda , " and " Inside the Yellow Cocoon Shell " get relegated to " honorable mention " status painted a very different picture . So did the films at the very top of our list , especially RaMell Ross ' astonishing " Nickel Boys , " which might be the best and most forward-thinking American film so far this decade . Some years may offer more life-altering masterpieces than others ( 2019 comes to mind ) , and the ones that do n't include a new Tom Cruise vehicle are definitely at a serious disadvantage , but there are good movies every yearyear , if you make the effort to look for them . <p> But I 'd argue that a certain number of good films does not necessarily make for " a good year for movies . " That can only be determined by how those films respond to existential questions for the medium at large . In 2024 , did cinema fight against the snowballing forces of cultural enshittification ( among the other , even more pernicious evils of our time ) ? Did it renew our faith in cinema 's unique ability to see us better in the darkness than we can see ourselves in the daylight ? Did it broaden our sense of what 's possible for this world , or did they simply flatter our desire to feel like we 're doing the best we can ? <p> After all , the movies have a unique ability to do that , too . <p> Want to read the rest ? Subscribe to In Review by David Ehrlich and you 'll be the first to read the latest insights from IndieWire 's chief critic David Ehrlich , along with the best of our film and TV reviews . <p> Written by Ian Wang , a fascinating and justifiably furious new piece in ArtReview has argued that the movies of 2024 failed us on every front that matters . And not just the movies , but also the machine that produces them . A machine that manufactures empathy as a panacea rather than as a means to an end . Rooted in his frustration with the film industry 's response to the war in Gaza , Wang rails against the hostile non-reaction to Jonathan Glazer 's acceptance speech at the Oscars , which crystallized the film world 's cowardly refusal to take sides in a humanitarian crisis that continues to be abetted by public opinion . <p> Wang excoriates the " hollow truisms " and " mealy-mouthed appeals for unity " that several institutions have published in response to the genocide , and takes particular issue with the Berlinale 's hypocritical decision to disavow the comments made by the directors of " No Other Land " upon receiving the festival 's documentary prize . I 'd add that " No Other Land , " number two on IndieWire 's list of the year 's best films and the recent winner of the New York Film Critics Circle 's award for Best Documentary , is still without U.S. distribution , which to my knowledge is unprecedented for a film that would otherwise be a lock for an Oscar nomination . I 'd also add that ranking " No Other Land " anywhere on the same list that includes the likes of " Challengers " and " The Substance " is an exercise in absurdity , but that I hoped its position would most effectively call attention to the film 's humanity without inviting readers to dismiss the film 's inclusion because of their politics . <p> Wang extends his critique to what happened on screen as well . The writer calls out Alex Garland 's " Civil War " for its adamant bothsidesism ( " I tried to imagine him making such a film about the actual American Civil War ; would he also say that the issue was polarization ? " ) , and Coralie Fargeat 's " The Substance " for promoting a " facile universalism " that sours its satirical critique of Hollywood ageism into the stuff of misogynistic hagsploitation . <p> I strongly disagree with his second example , as I maintain that Fargeat 's Ozempic fairytale is a fantastical portrait of self-loathing that pointedly engenders our disgust as a means to an end , but I share Wang 's broader frustration with the distorted role that reality -- political or otherwise -- has come to play in the movies of our time . You ca n't go five minutes during awards season without hearing someone yammer on about " the power of storytelling , " but people seem to get uncomfortable when storytellers actually flex that power in meaningful and decisive ways . It 's the inevitable question of cinema in the age of neoliberalism : Do we want movies to change the world , or do we just want them to let us indulge in the fantasy that movies can change the world ? <p> Unlike Wang , I do n't think it 's a problem if people are eager to laugh with films like " The Substance " and " Anora " ( the latter of which he accuses of being disconnected from its protagonist 's suffering ) , but I do think it 's a problem if people feel like singing along to " Wicked " in a crowded theater -- or rewarding it with Best Picture at the Oscars -- is some kind of blow against tyranny , for example . I swear to every god on Earth this is n't another rant about that movie ( I 've already held way too much space for it in this newsletter ) , I 'm only bringing it up because the hollowness of its anti-fascist message speaks to the value of the one movie I 'm truly upset was n't on IndieWire 's top 25 list -- the one movie that I feel is most sorely missing from all of the various awards conversations , and the one movie that I 'm most convinced will be reclaimed as a masterpiece at some point in the future . Probably by the French . <p> Want to read the rest ? Subscribe to In Review by David Ehrlich and you 'll be the first to read the latest insights from IndieWire 's chief critic David Ehrlich , along with the best of our film and TV reviews .
