<p> Jacques Audiard 's Spanish-language transgender musical won best film , best director and best screenplay honors for Audiard . Karla Sof ? a Gasc ? n , who plays the titular character , won best actress , becoming the first trans performer to win in the category . <p> " I did n't prepare anything because I was sure I was n't going to receive anything tonight , " said Gasc ? n , accepting her prize . She thanked Audiard , " the best European director for making the best European actress . " Gasc ? n dedicated here prize " to my mother and to all mothers in this world because their values and their function are sometimes undervalued , and I would like to devote this prize to all families and ask all parents to love their children , because , unfortunately , in this world , there are families that prefer their children be criminals than gay people . " <p> Audiard dedicated his best screenwriting honor to the late , French-Danish actor Niels Arestrup , who the director worked with on films such as The Beat That My Heart Skipped ( 2005 ) and A Prophet ( 2009 ) . <p> Hoisting his best film trophy , Audiard reminded the crowd that " all of us here in this room are so lucky to be making films in Europe . " He said he would like his country , with its generous government support of cinema , " to serve as an example for all other countries in Europe . " <p> Emilia P ? rez is France 's official submission for the Academy Awards in the best international feature category and a strong contender for several categories , including best actress for Gasc ? n , supporting honors for co-stars Zoe Salda ? a and Selena Gomez , and multiple technical categories . <p> Jacques Audiard at the 2024 European Film AwardsPhoto by Vittorio Zunino Celotto/Getty Images <p> Guinean actor Abou Sangare beat out heavyweights Ralph Fiennes , Daniel Craig and Germany 's Lars Eidinger to take the best actor prize for Boris Lojkine 's Souleymane 's Story , where he plays an African immigrant in Paris struggling to survive and get legalization papers so he can stay . <p> There were few overtly political statements at the awards , but Palestinian actress Hiam Abbass , presenting the best film award , called on the audience to think of the children of Gaza . " If they ever dreamt or had anything to say or any horizon , death has vanished all their dreams . " <p> The winners of best documentary No Other Land , which follows the Israeli government 's systematic and violent evictions of Palestinians in the West Bank , used the occasion to speak out against the war in Gaza . Accepting the prize via Zoom , Basel Adra , one of the film 's Palestinian directors , said it was difficult to celebrate with the ongoing " genocide against my people . How Israel is systemically trying to erase us from our homes . " Yuval Abraham , his Israeli co-director , called for action from European governments to pressure the Israeli government to enter a ceasefire by stopping the supply of weapons to Jerusalem . " For the sake of the hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza at risk of death , for the sake of the hundreds of Israeli hostages , a ceasefire has to be imposed . " <p> Flow , Latvia 's Oscar hopeful for best international feature , as well as a best animated feature contender , took the European Film Award for best animated feature . The dialog-free drama follows a big-eyed cat caught in an apocalyptic flood who teams up with a geographically diverse pack of critters to escape . <p> The prize for best short film went to Croatian director Nebojsa Slijepcevic 's The Man Who Could Not Remain Silent , an Oscar frontrunner that won the Palme d'Or earlier this year . The film dramatizes the ? trpci massacre of 1993 , when 24 Bosniak Muslims were pulled off a train by a Serbian paramilitary group and only one man , the Croatian Tomo Buzov , stood up against the attackers . <p> After the Yugoslav War , said Slijepcevic , Buzov 's story was forgotten " because it did n't fit into any of the narratives , but now it wo n't be . " <p> The European Young Audience Award went to the animated documentary The Remarkable Life of Ibelin , which premiered at Sundance and was snatched up by Netflix . <p> Armand , a school-set drama from Norwegian director Halfdan Ullmann T ? ndel and the country 's best international feature contender for the Oscars , won the European Discovery prize for best first feature . <p> Iconic German director Wim Wenders ( Paris , Texas , Pina , Perfect Days ) received a European lifetime achievement award . The long list of video tributes to Wenders included clips from Martin Scorsese , Willem Dafoe , Nick Cave and , in a showstopper , Japanese actor K ? ji Yakusho , star of Wenders ' Perfect Days , who appeared in character from the film , scrubbing a Toyko public toilet . " Mr. Director ! In celebration , I will clean your toilet , " Yakusho quipped . " Prost ! " <p> Receiving his trophy from EFA President Juliette Binoche , Wenders made the first Trump joke of the night . " Thank you , Madame President . So many of us would have liked to call another lady Madame President , but that did n't happen . If it had , the world would be a better place . But while that other guy pretends to make America great again , this president has a chance to make European cinema shine again . " <p> Closing his speech , Wenders quoted another U.S. president , John F. Kennedy , calling on the film professionals in the room to ask not what Europe could do for them but what they could do for Europe . " Europe is in trouble right now , " Wenders said , " and I really urge you to think what you can do for Europe because Europe needs you . It needs the film community to produce a more positive , more emotional view of the continent because too many people think of it as an economic community , a financial community , but it is an emotional community . It gives us strength , and right now we should give it strength . " <p> " She can claim a pretty decent heritage , " said Fiennes , referencing Rossellini 's legendary filmmaking parents , Oscar-winning actress Ingrid Bergman and Italian neo-realist director Roberto Rossellini , before listing off the " extraordinary talents " she has worked with in her career . " David Lynch , Robert Zemeckis , Peter Weir , Abel Ferrara , Guy Madden , Denis Villeneuve , Alice Rohrwacher and Edward Berger . You might think that they chose her , but for the most part , she chose them . " <p> While accepting the award , Rossellini said , " If I had to define the engine , the motor of my life , I would say it has been curiosity and the fuel for this motor has been laughter . " She thanked the babysitters who cared for her children when she was off working . " If it was n't for the wonderful work of other women who helped me , I could n't have the career I have had , " she said . " This is true for all of us women that have careers . My mother said to me the same thing : ' If it was n't for our Jenny , our nanny , I could n't have had the career I had . I am as grateful to her , Jenny , as I am to a director of the caliber of Alfred Hitchcock . ' "
