<p> Cornell University has seen multiple controversies over pro-Palestinian speech , activism and , now , teaching . <p> Matt Burkhartt/Getty Images <p> Cornell University 's interim president is facing public accusations that he suppressed academic freedom after he criticized a pro-Palestinian professor 's planned course in an email and that email was shared with a reporter . <p> The fracas started with a Nov. 6 email from a Cornell adjunct law professor , who wrote to interim president Michael I. Kotlikoff that a course set for the spring was antisemitic and could cause violence against Israeli and Jewish students . The course , Gaza , Indigeneity , Resistance , is going to be taught by Eric Cheyfitz , who is Jewish . <p> Cheyfitz , the Ernest I. White Professor of American Studies and Humane Letters and an indigenous studies professor , wrote in his course description that the class would examine the idea that Indigenous people have been involved " in a global resistance against an ongoing colonialism . " He wrote that the course would also " present a specific case " of the ongoing Israel-Hamas war as " settler colonialism in Palestine/Israel with a particular emphasis on the International Court of Justice finding ' plausible ' the South African assertion of ' genocide ' in Gaza . " <h> Most Popular <p> The professor who raised concern about the course to Kotlikoff was Menachem Z. Rosensaft ( both are also Jewish ) . Kotlikoff did respond , criticizing the class but also defending academic freedom , and that might have been the end of it . But Rosensaft told Inside Higher Ed that a reporter from the Jewish Telegraphic Agency called him to ask about his opinions on the course . Rosensaft said that , during that interview , he mentioned his email exchange with Kotlikoff and provided the reporter with the email when asked . <p> " I personally find the course description to represent a radical , factually inaccurate , and biased view of the formation of the state of Israel and the ongoing conflict , " Kotlikoff , the former provost , had written to Rosensaft . The Jewish Telegraphic Agency published the contents Nov. 11 . <p> Kotlikoff 's comments , which he told Inside Higher Ed were meant to remain private , have since spread to the Cornell Daily Sun student newspaper and prompted condemnation from faculty . The Middle East Studies Association 's president and its Committee on Academic Freedom have condemned his comments . Cornell 's chapter of the American Association of University Professors piled on Wednesday , releasing a lengthy statement that said Kotlikoff 's comments were an " egregious threat to bedrock principles of academic freedom . " <p> Risa Lieberwitz , president of that AAUP chapter , told Inside Higher Ed that Kotlikoff violated both Cheyfitz 's individual academic freedom and a broader facet of academic freedom . Kotlikoff 's email had not only criticized the course but the faculty who had supposedly approved it . Lieberwitz -- who 's also a member of AAUP 's national Committee A on Academic Freedom and Tenure , though she said she was n't speaking in that capacity -- said AAUP principles also protect the " intramural " speech that 's part of faculty governance at universities . <p> " The content of that email is extremely important because it is the university 's president weighing in about whether a faculty member 's course should be offered , " Lieberwitz said . She said that could have a " chilling effect " on what and how other faculty teach . <p> This is just the latest controversy at Cornell and other Ivy League institutions over faculty and student speech and protests that can broadly be characterized as pro-Palestinian . <p> In October , Cornell said it arrested three students who took part in the successful Sept. 18 shutdown of a university-hosted career fair that included weapons manufacturers . The Sunalso reported that during a private Zoom meeting between university administrators and Jewish parents , two university administrators ( not including Kotlikoff ) " outlined how the university monitors and disciplines pro-Palestinian activists , including by boosting security and surveillance around campus and ' scrutinizing ' faculty members ' in-class behavior . " <p> In one of the earliest post -- Oct. 7 , 2023 , campus flare-ups about pro-Palestinian speech that went national , associate history professor Russell Rickford said Hamas 's attack that day initially " exhilarated " him . ( Rickford , alongside Cheyfitz and Cheyfitz 's wife , founded a pro-Palestinian Cornell faculty organization , Cheyfitz told Inside Higher Ed . ) <p> Kotlikoff told Inside Higher Ed that his email " was a private communication to a colleague , not a public statement , it was not meant for public distribution . " <h> Editors ' Picks <p> " I had no expectation that this would be made public , " he added . " I would not publicly comment on the decision of a curriculum committee or a colleague 's choice of course material . " <p> However , Kotlikoff , said that " if there are antisemitic , racist , other incidents that are directly related to Cornell , I certainly reserve the right to comment on those and reassure the community around those issues " or " events . " He did not exclude what 's said by a professor in a classroom . <p> Cheyfitz , for his part , shared with Kotlikoff an email he received on the day the Jewish Telegraphic Agency article came out . <p> " Hope the women in your life experience the brutal rape Israeli women experienced and your children and grandchildren are burned to death before your eyes , " the email said . <p> Cheyfitz added to Kotlikoff , " The attached is the kind of email your ill-considered comments on my course in JTA provoke . " <p> Generally , though , Cheyfitz told Inside Higher Ed that " the backlash has n't been horrible , " and he 's surprised there has n't been more . But he said Kotlikoff has violated his academic freedom , and " there 's not anything in this course description that represents any of the critiques that Kotlikoff offers . " <h> A Not-So-Private Exchange <p> Cheyfitz , a longtime , vocal critic of Israeli policy , was receiving public criticism even before the JTA article . Ritchie Torres , a staunchly pro-Israel Democratic member of Congress representing New York , criticized the professor in a Nov. 4 social media post . <p> " Eric Cheyfitz , who is a Cornell Professor , demonizes Israel and lionizes Hamas , treating good as evil and evil as good , " Torres wrote on X. ( Cheyfitz denies lionizing Hamas . ) <p> Torres went on to say that " Cheyfitz is untroubled by genocide when the target is the homeland of the Jewish people . Poisonous professors like Cheyfitz are poisoning young minds at taxpayer expense . It is one thing for a free society to permit the poisoning . It is something else to subsidize it . Why do we ? " <p> It 's unclear what prompted Torres 's post , which did n't mention the course . A spokesman for Torres did n't respond to a request for comment . Whatever the genesis , the day after that post , the conservative online outlet Campus Reformwrote about the planned course . <p> Rosensaft said that after learning about the course roughly simultaneously from one of Torres 's posts and from a concerned student in his own class , he obtained a copy of the course description . <p> " If you cast Israel as being in the context of a global war against colonialism ... then you call into question the legitimacy of the state of Israel as a whole , " Rosensaft told Inside Higher Ed . " And you need to remember that Israel was not a colonial enterprise , but it was established pursuant to a United Nations General Assembly resolution . " <p> Rosensaft also said , " Courses with a racist , homophobic , misogynistic , Islamophobic bent would not be and should not be offered and I believe that the same standard should apply with courses that have an antisemitic bent . " ( Rosensaft was the longtime general counsel of the Israel-defending World Jewish Congress , and he teaches a class called Law of Genocide . ) <p> He wrote to Kotlikoff just two days after Torres 's post , saying the course description 's assertion of there being " settler colonialism " in Israel/Palestine is a " false premise " that " seeks to delegitimize the State of Israel " and " justify Palestinian terrorism . " Rosensaft said it 's " safe to assume " that Cheyfitz would portray the atrocities of Hamas 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack in " a positive light . " <p> Rosensaft said Cheyfitz " intends to use -- and will most certainly use -- the course as yet another means to propagate his extreme anti-Israel and , in my opinion , antisemitic views rather than to educate . " He said the course appearing amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas war made the class dangerous . <p> Rosensaft noted that Cornell gives deference to academic freedom , adding that " there are those who would argue that a hypothetical Cornell professor could offer a course claiming that Copernicus and Galileo were wrong and that the sun revolves around the Earth . " But while that would be " harmless quackery , " Rosensaft wrote , " Cheyfitz 's teachings could spur his students into acts of violence against Israeli and Jewish students at Cornell . " <p> He called on the interim president to at least tell the Cornell community that he " categorically opposes Professor Cheyfitz 's unsubtle effort to drag the university into the eye of the geopolitical storm surrounding the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza . " <p> Kotlikoff replied the next day , saying that he was concerned with " the course 's apparent lack of openness and objectivity , " but that faculty are responsible for the curriculum . <p> He went on to write that Cheyfitz 's course is optional and there are multiple other courses students can take on the Middle East and Zionism . Near the end of his letter , Kotlikoff also wrote that he " will speak out forcefully in response to antisemitic words or actions at Cornell , as I would with any behavior that threatens members of the Cornell community . " <p> Cheyfitz , for his part , does n't argue his course will be balanced . He said , " All scholarship is advocacy -- you 're always advocating in a course for a way to approach something . " Furthermore , he said , " Genocide 's not balanced . "
