<h> Two kindergartners shot as retribution for alleged Gaza ' genocide ' <p> Two California kindergarten students are in critical condition after being shot at school on Wednesday by a man motivated by " America 's involvement " in what he characterized as " genocide and oppression of Palestinians . " <p> Glenn Litton , 56 , set out to commit " child executions " at Feather River School of Seventh-Day Adventists as a " countermeasure in necessitated response " to Israel 's military operations against Hamas and Houthi terrorists , according to a police report of his manifesto . <p> " Countermeasures involving child execution has now been imposed at the Seventh Day Adventist school in California , United States by the International Alliance , " Litton wrote . " I , Lieutenant Glenn Litton of the Alliance , carried out countermeasures in necessitated response to America 's involvement with genocide and oppression of Palestinians along with attacks towards Yemen . " <p> The anti-Israel shooter met with school staff under the alias " Michael Sanders " to pretend he wanted to enroll a child in the school . After receiving a tour , he walked toward the bathroom , which is when staff heard gunshots and screaming . He used the same alias to make an appointment at Red Bluff Seventh-Day Adventist School , a possible second target . <p> Roman Mendez , 6 , was shot twice and Elias Wolford , 5 was shot once in the attempted executions . Both remain in critical but stable condition . Litton shot himself dead before police arrived at the scene at Feather River School in Palermo . He used a " ghost gun " to commit the shootings , according to police . <p> " They have a long road ahead of them , " Butte County Sheriff Kory Honea said . " The fact that they are currently still with us is a miracle . " <p> Litton had a long history of crime and mental health issues , according to investigators . Police do not yet know whether the " International Alliance " group Litton referred to in his manifesto is real or fabricated . <p> Following the Oct. 7 , 2023 Hamas terrorist attack on Israeli civilians , violence and unrest broke out across the United States and the world . In wake of the attack , anti-Israel groups began shutting down roads , bridges , and events , as well as forcibly occupying school buildings and setting up encampments amid calls for a " global intifada . " <p> Jewish students have faced a massive uptick in violent attacks and threats against them as a result of allegations of " genocide " being carried out by Israel , but investigators are unsure why Seventh-Day Adventist schools were specifically targeted in this attack . <p> " This is what ' Globalize the Intifada ' looks like , " Casey Babb , Senior Fellow with the MacDonald Laurier Institute in Ottawa , said of the shooting . " Conspiratorial , antisemitic , hate-filled carnage . " <p> The claims that Litton used to justify his attempted murders , that Israel is committing genocide in Gaza and that America is complicit , stem from Hamas 's allegations that the Jewish nation targets population-dense areas to attack . However , critics of Hamas highlight that the terrorist group intentionally operates in population-dense areas , using civilians as " human shields " by building military sites beneath hospitals and schools and by preventing civilians from leaving war-torn areas despite Israel warning of attacks . <p> Despite this , Israel 's estimated civilian casualty ratio is historically low . The IDF and United States have estimated the civilian-to-combatant casualty ratio to be between 1.5:1 and 3:1 . According to the United Nations , the global average is 9:1.
