<p> Rebels on a lightning advance through Syria said they were nearing the capital Damascus on Saturday , although the Bashar al-Assad government denied the army had withdrawn from areas around the city . The rebels claimed they had encircled the city . <h> Here 's your 10-point cheat sheet to this big story <p> " Our forces have begun the final phase of encircling the capital , " said rebel commander Hassan Abdel Ghani , with the Islamist-led alliance that launched the offensive , news agency AFP reported . <p> The leader of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , the Islamist group which has headed the assault , told fighters to prepare to take the seat of Assad 's government , just over a week into a renewed offensive in the long dormant conflict . <p> " Damascus awaits you , " said HTS 's Ahmed al-Sharaa in a statement on Telegram , using his real name instead of his nom de guerre , Abu Mohammed al-Jolani . <p> Syria 's defence ministry said army forces were " present in all areas of the Damascus countryside " . " There is no truth to news claiming our armed forces ... have withdrawn " from positions near Damascus , it said . Syria 's presidency denied reports that Assad had left Damascus , saying he was " following up on his work and national and constitutional duties from the capital " . <p> HTS is rooted in the Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda . Proscribed as a terrorist organisation by Western governments , it has sought to soften its image in recent years . As the Islamist rebels seize more territory , they have sought to reassure minority groups living in areas now under their control . " We ask that all sects be reassured ... for the era of sectarianism and tyranny has gone away forever , " said Abdel Ghani . <p> Since the offensive began last week , at least 826 people , mostly combatants but also including 111 civilians , have been killed . The United Nations said the violence has displaced 3.7 lakh people . <p> Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Syria must not be allowed to fall into the hands of " terrorist " rebels fighting the forces of Moscow 's ally President Bashar al-Assad . " It 's inadmissible to allow the terrorist group to take control of the lands in violation of agreements which exist , starting with the UN Security Council Resolution 2254 which strongly reiterated sovereignty , territorial integrity and unity of the Syrian Arab Republic , " Mr Lavrov said at an event in Qatar , referring to a 2015 UN resolution for a political settlement in Syria . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called for a " political solution to the conflict " , his spokesperson said on Friday , in a call with Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan . <p> US President-elect Donald Trump , however , on Saturday said the US should " not get involved " in the situation in Syria . " Syria is a mess , but is not our friend , and the United States should have nothing to do with it . This is not our fight . Let it play out . Do not get involved , " Trump said on his Truth Social platform . <p> There has been no public signal that the Biden administration is contemplating such an intervention . Trump has long taken an isolationist approach , and during this year 's presidential campaign he often said he could end the Ukraine and Gaza wars " quickly . "
