<h> Opinion An Endgame In Syria <p> Deep-rooted structural factors make Syria prone to sudden convulsions , such as the recent emergence of Hai'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS , in English Syria Liberation Organisation ) . Its 23 million population has a Sunni majority with a significant presence of Shias , Druze and Syrian Christians . Being an ethnic Kaleidoscope has made it vulnerable to sectarian tensions and foreign sponsors ' manipulation causing instability since the Crusades in the medieval era . It is at a civilisation faultline straddling three Sunni blocks : Turkey , Egypt and the Gulf , as well as a bridge between Shia-majority Lebanon , Iraq and Iran . <p> A 13-Year-Long Civil War <p> The Al-Assad family of the Alawi sect of Shia Islam has ruled Syria for over 50 years . The regime formally professes to Ba'ath party ideology of Pan-Arab nationalism . It has faced Arab Spring 's most persistent and bloody politico-military insurrection since 2011 , which has killed up to half a million Syrians , displaced 7 million internally and forced 6.4 million into exile abroad from the country 's 23.5 million population . The 13-year-long civil war has caused material damage of nearly 500 billion dollars . All this notwithstanding , President Bashar al-Assad 's government has tenaciously survived so far , thanks largely to robust military assistance from Russia , Iran and Lebanon 's Hezbollah militia . His regime has been in control of most of the country for the past five years , keeping at bay at least 49 militias , mostly Sunni outfits holed up in a 4 million-strong Idlib exclusion zone in the northwest bordering Turkey , which protects them . The instability in Iraq , Lebanon and Gaza has also permeated into Syria . While projecting " rejectionism " against Israel , Damascus has been careful to avoid a direct military confrontation despite frequent air attacks . After being ostracised by the Arab League for over a decade , it was invited to rejoin the regional body . Most of the Arab countries have resumed diplomatic ties with Syria , even as Western sanctions continue . <p> Spasm Of Sunni Salafism <p> Sunni militancy has been endemic to Syria . But lately , an eerie pattern seems to have set in : the sudden and periodic spasms of Sunni Salafism every decade for the past 20 years : in 2004 it was affected by the scourge of al-Qaeda in neighbouring Iraq , only to be snuffed out two years later by the occupying US forces there . In 2014 , the infamous Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) under self-styled Khalifa Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi exploded with a mysterious and gruesome mix of modern military hardware and regressive theocracy . The ISIS quickly overran a swathe of territory bigger than France with Raqqah as its capital and annual revenue of over a billion dollars . After earning notoriety for its medieval conduct , it too was militarily vanquished in 2019 by an unlikely coalition of Iran , the US , Iraqi Shia and Kurdish militias . Though it lost all territorial control , it still managed some spectacular operations hitting Moscow , Afghanistan , etc . <p> A decade after ISIS , the HTS led by Abu Mohammad al-Julani emerged out of the shadows on November 27 2024 , waging a blitzkrieg to shatter the wobbly peace of the past five years . Within a week , it has occupied Aleppo and Hama , Syria 's second and fourth largest cities . The HTS leads a motley Sunni rebel coalition poised to march on to Homs and threaten Damascus . In tandem with its advance , the Kurdish Self-Defence Force in the northeast and the Druze population in the south have also asserted against the central authority . Despite HTS claims of coordination , the actions by Kurdish and Druze elements appear autonomous and opportunistic . <p> The Emergence Of The HTS <p> The pattern is hardly coincidental . These perennial ethnic frictions manifest at opportune times of weak and unpopular regimes , social vacuum and external sponsors . The violent and toxic movements seek legitimacy through tactical shifts and the use of religious and sectarian symbols , but generate more heat than light and are eventually consumed by their overreach and overzealousness . <p> The emergence of the HTS has followed this script . It sensed opportunity as the Syrian army was exhausted after 13 years of unrelenting civil war and persistent Israeli air attacks . The lack of any peace dividend and political reforms has left the population disgruntled . Equally importantly , Iran and Russia , Damascus ' powerful external backers , each currently have their well-known preoccupations . <p> The HTS seems to have internalised the failures of the previous two Salafi insurrections . It has tried to cobble together a wider coalition of Sunni militias shunning , at least temporarily , the Salafi dogma it inherited from Al-Nusra Front , its al-Qaeda-aligned previous Avatar . It has also sought to have a modus vivendi with minorities such as Druze , Christians , Kurds , etc . Although proscribed as a terrorist organisation by the UN , the US , Turkey etc. , it has , reportedly , been sustained by Ankara and Doha . Possible crowdfunding from other sources , including Syrians in exile ( over a quarter of the total population ) as well as private largesse from the various Sunni outfits and non-state actors can not be ruled out . <p> Bashar al-Assad Has Held On <p> Despite the HTS ' initial shock successes on the ground , it is too early to count out President Bashar al-Assad , who has long defied prophesies of his demise . His battle-hardened and well-equipped army and security agencies are motivated by hard back-to-a-wall survival instinct . While his popularity is uncertain , he has provided a modicum of stability to the country for the past five years . So , for many in Syria , as a familiar devil , he may be preferable to unpredictable vendetta-driven revolutionaries . If push came to shove and Russia and Iran proved unwilling or unable to help out this time , the al-Assad clan retains the manoeuvrability to find new saviours . His last calling card would be that only he can keep Syria together and moderate ( notwithstanding the fiery rhetoric ) and his departure could lead to anarchy in a fragmented country with warring sectarian cantons that would make Lebanon appear as an oasis of peace . While quite a few of his internal and external detractors may not mind a regime change , very few of them , including the Western countries , Israel and Turkey , would countenance risking Syria being fractured into mutually warring cantons along ethnic or religious lines . The bitter legacy of the 13 years of civil war has thwarted the success of numerous attempts at reconciling the al-Assad regime with its militant opponents , notably through the United Nations and the Asthana process . <p> In the short run , thus , a " mother of all battles " is shaping up to control crucial central highlands around the Hama-Homs axis . To a large extent , its outcome would depend on which of the two sides would be able to keep their flock together and marshal their respective sponsors ' support . <p> The current flux in Syria can be seen as one of the aftershocks of Israel 's pyrrhic but decisive victory over Hamas and Hezbollah during the preceding weeks . It may also be a forerunner for an eventual epic confrontation between Israel and Iran if Tehran loses Syria , its last perch for its " advance defence strategy " against Israel . <p> Why India Should Be Concerned <p> Though India may be physically distant from Syria 's killing fields , several factors cast a long shadow upon us . Firstly , while Syria itself is not an oil and gas exporter , it lies close to the Gulf , which has major oil and gas reserves . Consequently , developments there are strategically important for us for several reasons , such as our hydrocarbon source , the base for over 9 million Indian expatriates , remittances and the export market . Protracted instability in Syria can therefore affect our vital interests . It is less well known that over 4 million Indians , mostly Malayalis , belong to the Syrian Christian church , constituting more than half of its global adherents . This symbiotic confessional connection makes them important stakeholders in the emerging imbroglio . Thirdly , the last time Syria faced a similar Salafi breakout by ISIS a decade ago , it " inspired " a small but significant segment of Indian Muslims . Some even answered its siren call to travel to Syria to join ISIS as Jihadis . A few cases of terror perpetrated in India were eventually traced to ISIS instigation . A bout of instability in Syria is , therefore , not conducive to India 's security and domestic stability . All these aspects enjoin us to keep a careful watch on the ongoing Syrian developments and act preventively to safeguard our national interests .
