<p> WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald Trump 's incoming Middle East envoy recently visited Israel and Qatar for high-level talks on landing a ceasefire and hostage deal in Gaza , a U.S. official said Thursday . <p> Steve Witkoff , who was tapped by Trump to serve as his special envoy to the region , met separately in recent weeks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Qatar 's Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani , according to the official , who was not authorized to comment publicly about the sensitive talks and spoke on condition of anonymity . <p> The official added that Witkoff has kept in contact with Biden 's foreign policy team as the incoming Trump and outgoing Biden administrations have agreed to coordinate on efforts to free hostages who remain in captivity in Gaza . <p> The official also confirmed that there has been recent progress on ceasefire talks to end the grinding war , though there are currently no plans for Biden to dispatch senior adviser Brett McGurk back to the region . McGurk has served as the administration 's chief interlocutor in the on-and-off talks . <p> Meanwhile , Bassem Naim , a member of Hamas ' political wing , said in an interview in Turkey on Thursday that international mediators have resumed negotiating with the militant group and Israel over a ceasefire in Gaza and that he was hopeful a deal to end the 14-month war was within reach . <p> Reuters first reported on Witkoff 's travels to the Middle East . <p> News of Witkoff 's efforts on a ceasefire deal comes after Trump demanded earlier this week the release of hostages held by Hamas before he is sworn into office in January . <p> " Please let this TRUTH serve to represent that if the hostages are not released prior to January 20 , 2025 , the date that I proudly assume Office as President of the United States , there will be ALL HELL TO PAY in the Middle East , and for those in charge who perpetrated these atrocities against Humanity , " Trump wrote in a post on his Truth Social site . <p> The war in Gaza began when Hamas-led militants stormed into southern Israel , killing some 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and taking around 250 people hostage on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Israeli officials believe about two-thirds of the roughly 100 hostages are still alive . <p> Trump transition officials did not respond to requests for comment on Witkoff 's recent Mideast visit . The State Department also declined to comment on Witkoff 's travels . <p> When he assumes his role as Mideast peace envoy , Witkoff is expected to operate out of the White House , much as Jared Kushner did during the first Trump administration . <p> Biden 's and Trump 's teams have previously acknowledged efforts to coordinate on the Middle East crisis . <p> Last month , the Biden administration officials said they kept Trump 's incoming administration closely apprised of its efforts to broker the ceasefire deal between Israel and Hezbollah on the Israel-Lebanon border . <p> Trump 's team , meanwhile , was quick to claim credit for the Lebanon ceasefire . <p> " Everyone is coming to the table because of President Trump , " said Florida Rep. Mike Waltz , Trump 's choice for his national security adviser , in a post on the social media platform X , shortly before the Israeli Cabinet signed off on the agreement . " His resounding victory sent a clear message to the rest of the world that chaos wo n't be tolerated . I 'm glad to see concrete steps towards deescalation in the Middle East . " <p> Biden 's national security adviser , Jake Sullivan , who has confirmed he has had talks with Waltz , bristled at the idea that Trump deserved credit for the long-sought deal coming together . <p> " I would just point out that you know you 've done a really good thing when other people take credit for it , " Sullivan said . <p> Witkoff , a Florida real estate investor , is also co-chair of Trump 's inaugural committee . <p> Witkoff was on the golf course with Trump in West Palm Beach , Fla. , in September during the second attempt on Trump 's life this year . <p> APPEAL FROM UKRAINE <p> Meanwhile , Ukrainian officials are visiting the United States this week to seek continued U.S. support and met with members of Donald Trump 's transition team to appeal to a president-elect who has pledged to bring a quick end to Ukraine 's war with Russia . <p> Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha said at a NATO meeting in Brussels on Wednesday that Andriy Yermak , President Volodymyr Zelenskyy 's powerful chief of staff , had made the visit for meetings that are " important for establishing relations , including with the leaders of the new administration . " <p> Yermak and Ukraine 's ambassador to the United States , Oksana Markarova , met on Capitol Hill on Wednesday with Vice President-elect JD Vance and Waltz , said a person with knowledge of the meeting who spoke on condition of anonymity . Also present was a representative for Keith Kellogg , a retired lieutenant general who is the president-elect 's choice for envoy to Ukraine and Russia . <p> Yulia Svyrydenko , Ukraine 's first deputy prime minister , was also in the U.S. this week . She spoke of her country 's energy investment opportunities at an Energy Transition Forum in Washington , in which she appealed to American businesses for investments such as oil and gas extraction , she said on social media . <p> With Ukraine 's war effort showing signs of exhaustion and its forces losing ground daily , there are fears in the country that the period leading up to Trump 's inauguration Jan. 20 could be exceedingly violent as Russia tries to capture more land before any talks are held . <p> Ukraine 's leadership has been trying to court Trump and his team since before the election , and an added sense of urgency is compelling Ukraine 's government to seek their support even before he takes office . <p> Some Ukrainian officials , including Zelenskyy , have presented the American election result as an opportunity for a new strategy in the war , but other Ukrainian politicians and political experts have expressed fear that it will mean reduced military aid . <p> On Tuesday , Speaker Mike Johnson dealt a blow to Ukraine 's war effort by refusing to allow a House vote on the Biden administration 's request for $24 billion in additional aid . <p> That echoed moves by him and other Republicans last winter to hold up a Ukraine aid package for months , although the Pentagon said this week that it was sending Ukraine an additional $725 million in military assistance from its stockpiles . That tranche will be the largest the United States has sent to Ukraine since a $1 billion shipment was announced in April . <p> Several Ukrainian officials have been looking for opportunities to reach out to Trump 's incoming administration . Oleksandr Merezhko , chair of the Ukrainian parliament 's Committee on Foreign Policy , said in an interview that he was planning a trip to Washington this month . " I would like to meet those people who are close to Trump -- it is important , " he said . <p> Information for this article was contributed by Aamer Madhani , Abby Sewell , Matthew Lee and Michelle L. Price of The Associated Press and Maria Varenikova of The New York Times . <p> FILE - Steve Witkoff speaks on the final night of the Republican National Convention , July 18 , 2024 , in Milwaukee . ( AP Photo/J . Scott Applewhite , File )
