<h> Doing what is needed : ' Post ' reporter on battling Hamas face-to-face in Gaza <p> ' We were ready to do what was needed . ' The ' Post 's ' Mike Starr has served two rounds of duty in Gaza since the October 7 Hamas attacks. ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> War is death and destruction . These horrors demand that if war must be fought , it must be fought until victory , lest these horrors be revisited . This was the thought that held in my mind as we crossed the border from Gaza into Israel , finishing our second tour of duty in the October 7 war . <p> We had arrived at night two months earlier . The bright moon illuminated the husks of buildings , casting pale shadows that danced along our armored truck as we navigated along the Netzarim Corridor . Each time we passed between the building shades , the moonlight glinted on a machine-gun barrel that slowly scanned our surroundings . The reconnaissance battalion soldier tightened his grip on the vehicle 's FN MAG emplacement , carefully watching the ruins through clouds of dust . <p> The brigade that we were replacing in positions along the vital security corridor had lost several soldiers to enemy attacks days before our arrival . We were alert to the dangers of ambushes , improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) , and snipers , but were no strangers to such environments . The 8111 reservist battalion had been called up on October 7 when Hamas murdered , raped , and abducted its way through southern Israel . We had served in the ravaged Israeli towns for two months before finally entering the Gaza Strip for almost two more . <p> Helmeted heads rattled with each turn and bump in the road as we neared the buildings that would house the battalion . <p> There were fewer helmets than I had hoped . Not everyone returned home from the last tour , and not everyone returned for the second round in the war zone . The friction of life had peeled many away from the unit . They had civilian responsibilities as children were born , businesses faced crises , and families crumbled under the weight of the war . Others still nursed physical or psychological wounds from our previous deployment . ' The friction of life had peeled many away from the unit . ' The ' Post 's ' Mike Starr has served two rounds of duty in Gaza since the October 7 Hamas attacks . ( credit : Courtesy ) <p> For the rest of us , we largely had to settle our affairs ahead of our draft date . Surrendering one life to start the other was more difficult than crossing the border into Gaza , but once we had donned the olive green , we were ready to do what was needed . <p> The truck finally arrived at our new position . We unloaded our heavy bags and climbed the four stories into an apartment . We spent the night in complete darkness , peeking out at the unknown with night vision goggles and scopes through holes carved into the walls . The blankets and camouflage netting that covered the apartment 's windows , holes , and doorways stifled any light and airflow , turning the rooms into an oven . <p> After the first uncertain night , dawn revealed the landscape . We were positioned north of the security corridor , our salient jutting into the underbelly of Zeitoun , where a Hamas battalion of the same name still operated . To the south , lay a field of concrete rubble spanning the stretch of corridor -- a graveyard of houses . The roofs of the buildings had often broken down the middle , with one slab of concrete jutting up like tombstones for the homes that had once stood there . <h> ' A giant gun pointed at Israel ' <p> This was the grim cost of Hamas having converted the territory into a giant gun pointed at Israel . <p> Roads were reduced to sandy strips by the treads of tanks . Garbage was strewn throughout the area , the food for packs of wild dogs that ruled Gaza in Hamas 's stead . Day and night the dogs would roam the streets and debris fields , snarling and barking at one another . Many of these wild animals learned to appreciate soldiers , who would give them food and water . Sometimes the dogs would join them on patrol or guard duty . We were particularly fond of the puppies , sweet-faced little things with black button eyes . <p> FOR THE next month we brought more buildings down to the ground , removing those that were believed booby trapped , housed tunnel entrances , or created a more advantageous security position . Every few days we shifted to another site , often leaving our old base in rubble . The enemy managed to fire off the occasional mortar bomb in our general direction . Another company was almost hit by a dud RPG , embedding in a wall inches from their faces . One Hamas operative trying to escape into a tunnel had a building brought down on him by a UAV when he was spotted by a neighboring company , and another was captured when he tried to place an IED in a bag on a road . <p> Besides these incidents , the area was far quieter than our previous deployment . As news broke that Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar had been killed , there was a pervading sense that the enemy was collapsing under IDF assaults . As noted by our commanders in briefings , the immediate enemy could not muster strategic operations , grasping at tactical attacks and battlefield propaganda stunts . In the previous deployment , enemy tunnels were everywhere , but as their underground infrastructure collapsed , Hamas could not keep up its once steady pace of hit-and-run RPG attacks . Its fighters usually dared not venture out into the day , and were blind at night . They seemed to desperately cling to the dimmest light of dusk and dawn , when visibility was low . <p> The IDF did not wait for the Hamas units in the north to conduct these attacks . The mission of 8111 Battalion was not just to defend the Netzarim Corridor and expand control of surrounding territory . We were one of the many units to serve as an anvil , as the hammer of an IDF division fell on the Jabalya area . <p> Prior to the attack , evacuation notices given to the residents of the area called for them to move south along a coastal road or down the Salah a-Din Road . Only a trickle of dozens made their way down the central artery by the anniversary of October 7 . <p> On one of our last weeks of the tour , movement was spotted in front of one of our old sites , a complex of three buildings . The complex had been largely left intact . We would regularly clear the buildings to use for stakeouts and reconnaissance , due to their immediate proximity to what we declared a redline boundary . Beyond this boundary , Hamas and other terrorist groups still held some sway and control . The old complex stood between the boundary and our new position , and was only 250 meters from our new site , well within rifle range . Our sergeant and light machine gunner saw two men with bags scaling the rubble . They had ventured from beyond the redline , through the complex , and out to the other side , facing us -- on the path we routinely navigated each time we visited the old site . <p> We sent out a drone to investigate . The little quadcopter zoomed across the gap between the sites . The two men heard the drone coming -- one of them dropped a bag -- and shot back into the building . Our drone specialist guided his avatar over the complex and peered below . On the other side of the building the two intruders joined two others who had been waiting . Together they fled from the drone , crossing the sandy depression between the complex and the boundary . At the mouth of a main road , four more men were waiting . They ran down the road , joining others still , until they disappeared into the Zeitoun neighborhood . <p> Our platoon and company officers were disturbed . People had come so close to our position without being seen , with bags that could contain IEDs . <p> THAT NIGHT , the order came down -- the old complex had to be removed immediately . The intelligence assessment indicated that Hamas was sending to the blind spot spies and operatives to lay IEDs . Our platoon officer detailed the operation in the predawn morning . We would circle around to a building on the same row as the old complex . Once there , we would clear the building floor by floor , then set up a sniper stakeout . Once the snipers were there to cover us , we would be joined by three tanks and two D9s , which would help us advance to the three buildings so we could secure them for combat engineers to rig for demolition . <h> Fears of Hamas IEDs in the area <p> Many of the soldiers in my platoon were tense about the likelihood that Hamas had laid IEDs around the area . We had lost friends in an IED ambush last tour . They argued that canine handlers or combat engineers should lead the way because of their specialization in spotting and recognizing explosives . <p> " I 'm not confident I can identify every IED , " said our light machine gunner , who would be taking point with me . <p> " Do n't worry , I know how to identify IEDs -- but I can only do it when they 're exploding , " I joked . " If I say ' aaah ! ' -- that 's my signal that I 've found one . " <p> A few laughs go a long way to calm nerves . <p> The platoon , company command squad , and a sniper team gathered in formation outside our site under a gray dawn . Our platoon officer drew back his rifle 's charging hand , loading a bullet into the chamber . The rest followed , cocking their weapons in a clatter . <p> We led the formation with a steady pace through the alleys of the dilapidated neighborhood until outside our first destination , the sniper nest building . At our officer 's command , one of our drone specialists rushed forward . After a drone survey satisfied there were no explosives at the entrance -- a blown-out storage room -- my partner and I rushed over to secure the entry point . The platoon swept up the stairs , clearing the floors room by room , until the building was secure . The sniper team took position on one of the higher floors . We waited a floor below for the sun to rise higher and our armored units to arrive . <p> We did n't wait long before one of the drone specialists saw movement as he peered through a window . Hamas operatives were sneaking from the old complex . We had caught them by surprise . The order came down , and a sniper opened fire , killing one of the men . A teen lookout , possibly around 14 years old , darted over to the mouth of the main road at the boundary line . I fired at the ground nearby to scare him off . Another man appeared in the sandy depression . As he ran , I shot him in the leg , but I mistakenly believed I had missed . He stumbled as more gunfire rang -- another marksman and I put two more rounds into his torso . I watched through my scope as he nestled into a dirt mound and ceased movement . A moment later , my partner opened fire on another man . The dust cleared , and we waited , and watched . <p> The young man I had killed could n't have been much older than 18 . He was in civilian clothes . He was unarmed . My heart sank when inspection of a bag dropped by one of the men revealed foodstuffs inside . <p> Was he actually Hamas ? What if he was just a civilian desperate for the food we had abandoned in our old complex ? Did we really have enough intelligence to use deadly force ? <p> Two more men in civilian garb ran from the old complex to the main road entrance . I had clear shots on them , but declined to take them -- I felt too uncertain about the possibility that they were actually civilians . <p> Covered by fire from tanks , the sandy depression was raked to ensure there were no explosives . We leapfrogged along the mounds of dirt until we reached the main building in the old complex . Once again we began to clear the building , room by room -- when suddenly one of our squads was alerted by shouting . Two men called " stop " in Arabic , appearing from behind furniture with a makeshift white flag . They were captured and held , as we finished clearing the rest of the building . No more surprises . <p> As we waited for the combat engineers to arrive , a preliminary interrogation revealed the truth about all the men we had encountered that day . One of the men we had captured was n't just a Hamas operative , he was an official member of its military wing , the Izzadin al-Qassam Brigades . The group had been ordered by the Zeitoun Battalion commander to gather food , supplies , and intelligence at the complex . <p> We shooed any stray animals from the building before the engineers came , then moved on to the next building , then the next , until all three were mined . We withdrew from the complex , and once all our forces and the detainees were clear , the buildings were detonated . A massive dust cloud rose in the air , then fell into a haze as dusk set in . <h> Harrowing scenes from reserve duty <p> THE NEXT day another platoon returned to the bodies at the site , only to make a gruesome discovery . The dogs had gotten to them first . They had feasted on their flesh ; the puppies we had found so adorable and precocious had used their small stature to enter under the corpse rib cages . A group of Palestinian men arrived under a white banner claiming to be from UNRWA , and were allowed to collect the remains . <p> A day later , another group of men attempted to sneak into our zone of control in the early hours of the morning . A sniper shot one of them in the leg , and the wounded man and another retreated into Zeitoun . The third remained behind with his arms up . He was detained . These were civilians , paid by the father of one of the men we had captured to collect a body . An Arabic-speaking soldier asked him why he had n't moved to safety in the south , through the humanitarian corridor . He needed money to pay Hamas to let him pass . They still exerted enough control to extort civilians . <p> The man was eventually released southward , without the people he was sent to collect . He did n't know that not only were they alive , further intelligence gleaned from the interrogation of the al-Qassam member soon led to an airstrike that killed six members of the Hamas military wing . Another discovery by a different brigade added another dimension to Hamas operation in the area : A few hundred meters from the old complex was a hidden cache of brand-new Kalashnikov rifles . Hamas hid armories around Gaza , for plainclothes operatives like the men we encountered to use when they had gathered enough intelligence , and had gotten close enough to shed the perfidious charade of being civilians . <p> " Those weapons were probably meant to be used against us , " said one officer . <p> Finally , the time came to leave . One of our drone specialists had grown attached to one of the puppies at the rear base . He wanted to bring her with him , to save her from the harsh environment , before she had grown up to be just as savage as the others . Yet he did n't have place to keep her at home . Perhaps Gaza was where she was meant to be , with the other wild animals . <p> As we rode back to Israel on open Humvees in broad daylight , we cheered in our good mood . Despite the smiles , I was still scarred by the momentary fear that I had killed a civilian . For Hamas , which was willing to send young men to their deaths as cannon fodder , which was willing to have all of Gaza razed in its war against Israel rather than surrender , life was cheap . It was just to kill Hamas terrorists , who sought to kill Israelis and refused to release Israelis hostages , and who would make any peace with the Palestinians impossible . Yet life was not cheap to me . Even if Hamas and its ilk did not value life , the life of men like the one I killed still had innate value . Like Gaza , their lives were full of potential -- he could have had a family , loved , studied , a career . Instead , he died among the ruins of a place that could have been teeming with orchards , hotels , and tourists as a jewel of the Mediterranean . <p> In taking such lives , even if legitimate , the innate value in them must be respected by ensuring that not only fellow soldiers be saved by their slaying , but further death and destruction not befall Gaza . His death , all the destruction we had witnessed , had to be a necessary step in service of ending the war in victory against Hamas and peace with the Palestinians , so there would be no future war and reason for us to return to Gaza a third time .
