<p> BEIRUT -- Middle East observers would be forgiven for thinking they were in a time machine when Syria 's rebels blitzed last week through the country 's northwestern regions , capturing Aleppo in a stunning advance that has reignited the country 's long-dormant civil war . <p> Over the past seven days , the rebels -- long considered a fractured , hopelessly compromised force -- have routed Syrian army troops from their bases and positions , making gains in Idlib , Aleppo and Hama provinces . The offensive represents the most serious threat since 2019 to Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad and his backers in Iran and Russia . <p> After an initial retreat , loyalist forces are regrouping , with reports of Syrian army units and Iranian-backed Iraqi militias mobilizing toward Hama to stay the opposition 's advance . Meanwhile , Russian warplanes have launched airstrikes on overrun neighborhoods of Aleppo and pounded rebel-held areas to the north . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a watchdog group with a network of activists in the country , says more than 600 people have been killed in the recent fighting , including more than 100 civilians . <p> Advertisement <p> The clashes have brought back to attention a civil war that has largely fallen out of the headlines despite never really ending . <p> Here 's a look at what happened and what it could mean for the different players . <p> Ten years later , Syria 's civil war , with its untold numbers of dead , serves as a bleak example of possibility and hope crushed by conflict and chaos . <p> March 14 , 2021 <h> Who is involved and why is it important ? <p> The belligerents are the last survivors of Syria 's hugely destructive civil war , which began in 2011 as another Arab Spring revolution , with antigovernment protesters demanding Assad leave . <p> The government moved to destroy them , unleashing troops and state-backed thugs in a wave of brutality . That triggered an armed rebellion that , at its peak , comprised dozens of armed factions across the country , including Gulf-backed Islamist militias , Islamic State and Al-Qaeda affiliates , and moderate groups supported by the U.S. and other Western countries . <p> Advertisement <p> But they could never fully unite . Assad fought back , calling upon Iran and Tehran-backed armed groups including Lebanon 's Hezbollah , to bolster his troops . In 2015 , Russia entered on the government side , turning the tide of the war in Assad 's favor . <p> By the time the war settled into a stalemate around 2019 , more than half a million people were killed , millions more displaced or made refugees , and the country was in ruins . But Assad controlled 70% of it . <p> The rest was balkanized under three rival administrations : One in the northwest province of Idlib , led by the Hayat Tahrir Al-Sham ( HTS ) , a jihadist group once linked to Al-Qaeda ( it disassociated in 2016 ) and which remains designated a terrorist group by the U.S ; a coalition of Turkish-supported militias that rule -- with Ankara 's assistance -- a portion of the north ; and the Syrian Democratic Forces , a Kurdish militia that controls a U.S.-backed protectorate in the country 's northeast , with some 900 U.S. soldiers stationed in the area to prevent the resurgence of Islamic State . <p> Advertisement <p> That dizzying array of fighters and patrons means what happens in Syria is unlikely to stay in Syria . A change in who rules the country would have ripple effects across the region , and would represent a significant upset in the rivalry between the U.S. and Russia , not to mention Iran . <h> Why did the offensive start now ? <p> Events in Syria can not be detached from the fallout of the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attacks on Israel . Israel 's subsequent war in Lebanon has weakened Hezbollah and with it Iran , both of them crucial Assad allies . Russia too is distracted with its own war in Ukraine , meaning it has less forces to devote to Assad 's survival . <p> Israel , which occupies Syria-claimed Golan Heights , is also focusing its ire on Iran 's proxy forces . In recent months , it has intensified its attacks on Iran-affiliated groups in Syria , further degrading Tehran 's power . <p> Mustafa Sello strode up to the soldiers loitering by the green buses near southern Aleppo 's Ramousseh crossing , where they waited to evacuate the last residents out of the city 's eastern districts . <p> Dec. 23 , 2016 <h> What is happening on the ground ? <p> The offensive is spearheaded by HTS and some of its jihadist allies , along with a Turkish-backed umbrella group called the Syrian National Army . They launched a two-pronged attack , and have taken over an estimated 170 square miles of territory . That includes Aleppo , Syria 's second-largest city and its economic powerhouse , which the rebels first entered in 2012 before being ousted four years later . <p> Now they are poised to chomp off parts of the country 's center . They 've also netted significant amounts of weapons and supplies , including jet planes and helicopters from the Syrian army . <p> On Wednesday , state-run media reported the Syrian army had clawed back some territory in Hama and was planning a counterattack . <p> Advertisement <h> What does it mean for Assad and his allies ? <p> Before this rebel resurgence , Assad 's survival seemed a fait accompli . The war had hollowed out his government and the army , and forced him to pawn whatever remained to Iran and Russia , but Assad nevertheless believed he was secure enough to wait out his opponents . He refused to negotiate with the opposition or Turkey , and insisted the U.S. leave the country . <p> Assad 's biggest loss may be among Syrians living under his rule . Many sided with him less out of genuine loyalty than fear of chaos , looting and persecution under the fragmented opposition . Yet army troops proved unable or unwilling to protect the local population , offering little resistance and resorting to airstrikes on Aleppo -- moves that are unlikely to endear the government to the local population . <p> At the same time , a large number of the participating factions espouse jihadist ideologies most Syrians reject . But so far the opposition has been careful with civilians . Videos on social media depict bearded fighters walking down city streets , reassuring Christians and other minorities of their safety . And activists say fighters have been disciplined in not harassing residents . <p> If the opposition can keep its gains , maintain cohesion and rehabilitate its image among Syrians , Assad may be forced into serious concessions in exchange for his survival . <p> One idea floated in recent days is that Assad turn away from Moscow and Tehran in exchange for sanctions relief . For Iran , that would mean the loss of a major node in the logistics train it uses to supply Hezbollah . It would also further weaken the so-called Axis of Resistance , the Iran-led constellation of governments and paramilitary factions arrayed against the U.S. and Israel . <p> Russia , which has a presence on Syria 's Mediterranean coast , would lose a reliable client in the region , not to mention an airbase in the Middle East and the only warm-water port for its navy . <p> Advertisement <p> For the moment , neither Assad nor his allies show signs of backing down . In statements and interviews , government officials insist the army is on the attack against rebels , whom they call terrorists , and Iranian emissaries have pledged to back Assad to the hilt . Russia has scrambled its warplanes to attack rebel-controlled areas in Idlib and Aleppo . <p> At first glance , there is little indication of the vicious fighting that took place here . <p> Feb. 5 , 2018 <h> What does Turkey get out of it ? <p> Turkey has been backing the opposition since 2011 and has shouldered the largest number of refugees from the fighting . It initially insisted Assad must go , but almost 14 years later , the greater priority for Turkish President Recep Tayyep Erdogan is to send refugees back home , and destroy the SDF , the Kurdish militia he believes is linked to Ankara-proscribed Kurdistan Workers ' Party , or PKK . <p> In their capture of Aleppo , the rebels now encircle several neighborhoods controlled by the SDF , and have promised the Kurdish fighters safe passage to northeast Syria . It is unclear if they have done so . <p> A success against the Kurds now is likely to play well for Turkey when Trump enters office next month . During his first term , Trump repeatedly tried to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria , decrying their deployment there as a costly-but-useless foreign intervention . A Kurdish defeat may convince him staying is no longer tenable . <h> Is this a win for the U.S. and Israel ? <p> Leaders in both countries would be pleased to see Assad go . But if he stays on the condition of curtailing Iranian and Russian influence , it 's still a win because Iran would n't be able to ferry arms to Hezbollah or threaten Israel through Syria , and it would lose a major outlet for its sanctioned economy . Russia 's loss in Syria would allow the U.S. a freer hand in the region . <p> Still , war in Syria has proved to be a transnational problem in the past , when the resurgence of Islamic State saw the U.S. lead a coalition of countries in a years-long campaign to destroy the extremist group . The conflicts there have also sparked a refugee exodus that altered Europe 's political landscape and empowered anti-immigrant right-wing parties . Iraq and Jordan face being destabilized , adding to their woes amid the turmoil of the ongoing conflicts in Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Advertisement <p> The chaos could also hit Israel . Assad so far has kept his forces out of the fight with Israel in its war with Hamas and Hezbollah . He has also put up little resistance to Israel 's repeated attacks against Iranian assets in the country . There are no guarantees that will continue . <p> Nabih Bulos is the Middle East bureau chief for the Los Angeles Times . Since 2012 , he has covered the aftermath of the " Arab Spring " revolution as well as the Islamic State 's resurgence and the campaign to defeat it . His work has taken him to Syria , Iraq , Libya , Turkey , Lebanon , Jordan and Yemen as well as on the migrant trail through the Balkans and northern Europe . A Fulbright scholar , Bulos is also a concert violinist who has performed with Daniel Barenboim , Valeri Gergyev and Bono .
