<p> Syrian rebels said they 've seized a key southwestern city close to the border with Jordan and claimed to be closing in on the capital of Damascus as they carried on a lightning-fast offensive that threatens to further destabilize a region already convulsed by war . <p> Ghani followed that post with a subsequent post on X claiming HTS had secured the city centers of Daraa , Sweida , and Quneitra . <p> " ? The Military Operations Department has completed combing and securing the city centers of Daraa , Sweida , and Quneitra , thus announcing that the centers of the three southern governorates are completely liberated and free of the criminal regime forces , " the post stated . <p> Video verified by NBC News showed people in Jaramana , a Damascus suburb , tearing down a bust of Hafez Al-Assad , father of president Bashar Al-Assad . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights ( SOHR ) , a U.K.-based war monitor , said Saturday that Jaramana was no longer controlled by the Syrian government . <p> Earlier , HTS said it had " completely liberated " the city of Daraa , a symbolic and strategic victory for the rebels as the place where pro-democracy protests in 2011 sparked the country 's ongoing civil war , while it is also an important crossing on the border . <p> It is very difficult for independent journalists to operate in Syria and NBC Could not independently verify the rebels ' claims . <p> The rebels ' seizure of Daraa also comes after HTS claimed Friday that it had advanced to the edge of the city of Homs , a key crossroads connecting Damascus to government strongholds on the Mediterranean coast . <p> " To Our Brave Rebels . You are now at the gates of Homs and Damascus , and the fall of the criminal regime is closer than ever . I renew my advice to you , brothers , to show mercy , kindness , and gentleness to our people in the cities and villages you enter as humble conquerors , " the general command leader Ahmed Al-Sharaa said on Telegram Saturday . <p> " To the Soldiers and Officers of the Assad Regime , Whoever stays at home , closes their door , and remains silent is safe . Those who announce their defection from the criminal regime , lay down their weapons , and surrender themselves are also safe , " Al-Sharaa said . <p> Russia and Iran have long supported Assad , with Russia maintaining a military presence including the naval base at Tartus . But both nations ' influence has been weakened by broader regional tensions , including Israel 's war in Gaza and clashes with Hezbollah in Lebanon , and Russia 's yearslong war with Ukraine . <p> H.A . Hellyer , a senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute , a London-based think tank , told NBC News on a phone call Saturday that it 's " pretty much the end game for Assad " if the rebels take Homs . <p> " Once they get Homs , then really Damascus is cut off and they 'll all be centered around Damascus and Latakia on the coast . " <p> If the strategically important municipality of Homs were to fall , it would leave three of the country 's five largest cities in the hands of the forces led by HTS , and no major cities between rebel forces and Damascus . <p> But Hellyer said there was not yet a definitive outcome to the conflict despite the rebels ' rapid advance . <p> " It comes down to how much fighting spirit there is left in this rump of the Syrian army , " he added . " How much they feel they can hold out in terms of support from the the Russians and the Iranians , which has n't been forthcoming . " <p> Syria 's army said Saturday morning that it had begun to take control in the provinces of Homs and Hama against what it called " terrorist organizations . " <p> An anti government fighter poses for a picture in front of one of the water wheels , or norias , of Hama.OMAR HAJ KADOUR / AFP - Getty Images <p> Various reports from around the country also suggested that the fall of Aleppo and Hama , as well other cities such as Idlib and numerous rural settlements , has significantly strained Assad 's forces as fighting between government troops and various rebel groups raged around the country . <p> Pro-Assad soldiers were also battling Kurdish forces who seized government positions in eastern Syria near the cities of Raqqa and Deir Ez-Zour , the Observatory said . <p> To the south of the country , state media quoted Jordan 's interior ministry as saying that it was closing its Jaber border crossing to all outgoing traffic " due to the security conditions surrounding southern Syria . " <p> The observatory said Saturday that Syrian government forces had withdrawn from Israeli-controlled Golan Heights for the first time since Israel captured the area from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and annexed it in 1981 . <p> The observatory says more than 820 people , including 111 civilians , have been killed across the country since the rebels began their offensive .
