<p> Now many of us squint back at that time through a veil of disappointment and fear . Every kind of populism has gone sour again . Is that stink wafting through the zeitgeist the supplement-toxified testosterone of young Rogan-fan voters , or stale dry-ice clouds from the celebrity endorsers at Harris rallies ? <p> Chart dynamism turned to near-stasis as those songs of summer stuck around through the fall with little to replace them . My Slate colleague Chris Molanphy 's series " Why Is This Song No. 1 ? " went months without a new installment , as " A Bar Song ( Tipsy ) " dominated that spot for months on end . The rest of the top 10 likewise has been stuck on shuffle , except when new albums debuted by artists with a very particular mix of mass and cult appeal . Those would be Tyler , the Creator -- whose Chromakopia just barely missed my list -- and Kendrick Lamar , whose surprise-released GNX has n't won me over yet but is currently making him just the fourth artist ever to occupy the whole Billboard top five simultaneously . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Given all that , my lists reveal a step back from broad pop-forwardness to a craving for more intense catharsis or more intimate contact . The order is always a shell game ; ranking a collection of perfect pop confections relative to an hourlong jazz composition is less apples-vs. -oranges and more butterscotch sundaes -- vs. -- Antikythera mechanisms ( you decide which is which ) . But now I felt particularly inclined to highlight the lesser-knowns , especially given the plethora of lists that get published these days as soon as the calendar hits December . Many of the runners-up here easily could have been first tier . My top dozen simply felt a touch more personal . <p> Advertisement <p> After that , instead of a top singles list , I 've put together a set of " singularities " -- some songs but also other musical moments and mutations that summon the essence of 2024 , a year divided against itself . <h> Related From Slate <h> The Top 12 Albums ( in alphabetical order ) <p> Advertisement <h> ? ? ? ? Ahmed , Wood Blues <p> Based in the U.K. , this is something of a pan-European supergroup ( Pat Thomas on piano , Seymour Wright on sax , Joel Grip on bass , and Antonin Gerbal on drums ) . It was formed to pay tribute to the bass and oud player Ahmed Abdul-Malik , a figure on the 1950s New York bebop scene who reinvented himself in the 1960s to pursue Arabic-jazz hybrids of his own invention . At each performance , ? ? ? ? Ahmed selects a single Abdul-Malik composition to explore live , under the rubric , " No discussion . No plan . No solos . " In this recording of a 2022 show in Glasgow , the result is a 58-minute panorama of , perhaps , an oil field going up in flames , including close-ups of the fleeing laborers , crowds of protesters , conspiracy theories running amok , and the angel of history overhead , flying in reverse . It 's a lot to absorb -- the group also released a five-disc set of other 2022 performances , called Giant Beauty , this year , but I have not tackled that yet . ( Nota bene : I might have otherwise included even more jazz records in this list , but my Slate colleague Fred Kaplan covered many of the best in his own tally this week . ) <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Arab Strap , I 'm Totally Fine With It ? ? Do n't Give a Fuck Anymore ? ? <p> The idea of the " lockdown album " feels hackneyed by now . But I had n't realized how much I needed to hear one that deals with how far out of joint our internal and external worlds have remained since that great disruption . The Scottish duo Arab Strap , who showed off their sardonically drawling handling of the sordid facts of life from the mid-1990s to the mid-2000s , prove to be just the men for the job on their second studio album since reuniting in 2016 . Grim scenarios of social disconnection swell to epic synthesized scale , a little like on this year 's Cure album , but with more variety . It pulls off the best trick of deeply depressing music -- by telling truths the listener has n't known how to talk about or acknowledge , offering improbable comfort . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Madi Diaz , Weird Faith <p> Singer-songwriter Madi Diaz caught a weird break in 2021 when , after a dozen-plus years gigging around New York and Nashville , she got a call to open some dates for Harry Styles , then to join his touring band . I did n't know this when I saw her at a Toronto club earlier this year and wondered why a horde of teenagers was clustered at the front screaming for every song . Her good luck becomes ours in that it likely means she 'll be able to keep putting out collections of songs like this . Her style does n't have much in common with Styles -- Kacey Musgraves ' presence on one track here is a better clue ( though it 's much sharper than Musgraves ' own sadly fuzzy-minded album this year ) . But on this album about the hopefulinsecurities of grown-up new love , and a similarly jumpy relationship to religion and family and fate ( hear " God Person " ) , her ability to make quizzical introspection so invitingly musical is good cause to jump up and scream . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Doechii , Alligator Bites Never Heal <p> Officially it 's a mixtape , but to my ears , Doechii 's Alligator Bites Never Heal -- the title a nod to her Florida roots and to the theme of unresolved trauma -- is the freshest rap album of the year , with an internal coherence that lodges it as a whole in the memory . I 'm often down on the prevalence of therapy-speak in 2020s music , but the way that here it 's bounced off dirty-mouthed humor and classic hip-hop hungry ambition ( as well as side-eye to narrow industry expectations of women in rap ) makes it feel like part of a fully rounded self-portrait whose pace carries me through its 47 minutes in what feels like half the time . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Mary Halvorson , Cloudward <p> Surely by now we can just acknowledge guitarist-composer Mary Halvorson , now in her mid-40s , as one of the giants of contemporary **28;1294;TOOLONG . As the title suggests , her pieces can be like cloud collages turning slowly for the listener 's contemplation . But then in an instant they can also be like mansions collapsing down the side of a hill , raindrops firing at you from octopus-arm guns , surreal parables or stern admonitions . The six-person ensemble here ( seven when assisted by Laurie Anderson on violin on " Incarnadine " ) comes across as tight and disciplined in its unpredictable pursuits . Besides Halvorson 's guitar , it features trumpet and trombone and rhythm section , plus the vibraphone of Patricia Brennan , who herself put out another of the best jazz records of 2024 , called Breaking Stretch . And you should hear two other fantastic albums with Halvorson this year , the Tomeka Reid Quartet 's 3+3 , and Wingbeats by the trio Thumbscrew , both also featuring Cloudward drummer Tomas Fujiwara . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Hurray for the Riff Raff , The Past Is Still Alive <p> I fell for this album by this New Orleans ensemble , led since 2007 by nonbinary singer-songwriter Alynda Segarra , harder than I ever have for its previous ones . I might have to call it my favorite this year . The Past Is Still Alive is a memory book -- created in the wake of Segarra 's father 's death -- of Segarra 's dislocated and underprotected youth , the people ( often lost ) they experienced those ramblings with , and the America in which it all took place , as geographically ravishing as it can be socially unforgiving . But unlike some of the band 's previous records , it 's sparing in its didactic or scolding moments ( so they land all the harder ) . It 's suffused with love , grieving , grievance , and gratitude in dynamic balance . Its folk and country-rock structures still feel roomy but not so rickety . Audition " Colossus of Roads , " for instance , and see if any doubts do n't quickly collapse . <p> Advertisement <h> Various artists , I Saw the TV Glow ( original soundtrack ) <p> The record industry has been trying hard to sell us on Twisters as the movie soundtrack album of the year , and sure , it 's got some Nashville bangers among its overstuffed 29 tracks . But it ca n't compete with the album for Jane Schoenbrun 's oddball trans allegory and horror-fantasy period piece . Its 15 songs fulfill the director 's dream of simulating a great lost 1990s indie mixtape . But they also convene a summit of some of the great queer/weird-kid music heroes of the 2020s . As a Torontonian , I might have been a little suckered by the fact that it begins with Yeule 's cover of the greatest-ever Broken Social Scene cut , " Anthems for a Seventeen Year-Old Girl " -- and again , as a Phoebe Bridgers devotee , by it ending with her only official 2024 release , a collaboration with her old band Sloppy Jane ( the band in the club in the film ) on " Claw Machine . " But then there 's more from Frances Quinlan ( Hop Along ) , Caroline Polachek , Florist , King Woman , Jay Som , L'Rain , and the Weather Station , music that should serve to remind you not to neglect to dig your best friend , or alter ego , out of their grave , and that teen movie soundtrack albums can be the greatest thing . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Ka , The Thief Next to Jesus <p> Of all the people in and around music who died in 2024 , one of the saddest losses was that of Kaseem Ryan , the fiercely independent rapper known as Ka , at the age of 52 . Having given up dreams of stardom in his youth , he worked as a respected firefighting captain by day . In his off time , he wrote , produced , performed , released , and marketed his own music , nine solo albums over the past 16 years -- most of them with central conceptual focuses , as on this one , which explores and critiques the relationship between Black American communities and Christianity . In a larger sense , all of his albums were about struggle , survival , and loss , grounded in hard memories of coming up in Brownsville , Brooklyn ( as here , for instance , on " Collection Plate " ) . It 's not easy listening , often downbeat and severe , but rich in story , sound , and emotion . I confess I did n't give his music enough time before his death , despite the urgings of my Slate colleague Jody Rosen , who was one of Ka 's greatest advocates over recent years , and whose beautiful obituary of the man I 'll recommend as required reading . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> MJ Lenderman , Manning Fireworks <p> Manning Fireworks is the one album among my top dozen that will show up on pretty much every other list you 'll see this year . It 's also an album I listened to more than almost anything else in 2024 , so I could n't pass it over . For one thing , the North Carolina singer-songwriter and guitarist carries into the mainstream more than ever before the influence of the late poet and songwriter David Berman ( Silver Jews , Purple Mountains ) , the subject of the book I 've been working on . MJ Lenderman shares Berman 's alt-country style and his penchant for juxtaposing sardonic one-liners with aching lyricism and other verbal leaps -- like Lenderman 's much-quoted reference to his " houseboat docked at the Himbo Dome " on the perfect " Wristwatch , " or his " Bark at the Moon " counsel " Do n't move to New York City , babe/ It 's gon na change the way you dress . " But he can say equally much with a volley of string-bending Southern-rock guitar notes . At only 25 , he 's already honed those skills through several previous albums , but here is where it all clicks into place . A recurring theme is symptoms of masculine dysfunction , among the older generation ( as on " She 's Leaving You " ) but perhaps also among the Joe Rogan and Andrew Tate acolytes who are his peers . So another level it operates on might be undercover journalism -- or else displaced confession . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> The Messthetics and James Brandon Lewis , The Messthetics and James Brandon Lewis <p> This project feels like something made expressly for me , or that I just imagined in a daydream : the former rhythm section of the great ( arguably greatest ) 1980s and 1990s post-hardcore band Fugazi , in collaboration with one of today 's most compelling younger New York jazz creators and players , James Brandon Lewis ( who had two albums on my 2023 list ) . I was n't so taken with what bassist Joe Lally and drummer Brendan Canty , together with guitarist Anthony Pirog , did on previous Messthetics releases , which drifted a bit too far toward prog rock . But Lewis ' presence on sax seems to ease their anxiety about filling in available space , which he 's able to do with more strategy and sensuality . The outcome on tracks like " Emergence " nods to decades-past iterations of jazz-rock and jazz-punk fusions while sounding completely 2024 . Also do n't overlook Lewis ' quartet release this year , Transfiguration , with pianist Aru ? n Ortiz and another great rhythm section , Brad Jones ( bass ) and Chad Taylor ( drums ) . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> Peso Pluma , ? xodo <p> For all the talk about Brat summer , " Espresso " fever , and everybody going country , there was another record this summer racking up hundreds of millions of streams and reaching near the top of the charts that seldom entered the conversation : Peso Pluma 's double album ? xodo.It 's rooted in regional Mexican music and corrido , but ranging far beyond that , with one disc full of traditional brass and strings and the other loaded with trap beats and guests such as Cardi B , Quavo , and Rich the Kid . My Spanish is practically nonexistent ( I 'm Canadian ; we took French ) , so there are limits to what I can analyze here -- certainly not the debate over the glorification of drug-cartel activity in the subgenre of narcocorridos , except to say it does n't seem so far removed from the lyrical fixations of hip-hop icons such as Pusha T. What I do know is that almost anywhere I push play on ? xodo , whether the more folkloric " Rompe La Dompe " or the ultramodern " Bellakeo " or anywhere in between , almost everything sounds like a hit , and I do n't want it to stop . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <h> SML , Small Medium Large <p> Sounding at various points like a contemporary electronic dance record , On the Corner -- style 1970s fusion , or 1980s New York mutant disco like Liquid Liquid and ESG , the West Coast quintet SML 's first album is constructed from live improvisations transformed through postproduction editing and processing . The group has its roots in Jeff Parker 's Los Angeles jazz venue ETA , which closed last year ; bassist Anna Butterss and saxophonist Josh Johnson are also both on Parker 's superlative double album this year , The Way Out of Easy . But the shimmery , pulsing sound of SML , with its synthesizers , guitars , percussion , and loops , has the potential to entice a listenership not usually drawn to free-jazz types , perhaps the way Chicago 's Tortoise did in the 1990s -- with the squared-off anti-funk of " Industry , " for instance , or the near-ambient pit-a-pat of " Window Sill Song . " It 's a sound for which I , personally , am almost always in the mood , or if not , it will take me there . <h> Singularities : Songs , Moments , Happenings <p> As on Renaissance , Beyonc ? was presenting a whole musicological thesis on Cowboy Carter , but this time it felt as if it sprawled a bit out of control , maybe because she had less specifically to say about country music than she first proposed -- a lot of the best stuff had more to do with rock ' n ' roll . ( See my review . ) The lowest point was a rewrite of " Jolene " that turned Dolly Parton 's classic into a routine power flex . But immediately after that came the wild twist of " Daughter , " in which Beyonc ? performed part of the operatic aria " Caro Mio Ben " ( showing off a part of her training many of us were n't aware of ) and matched it with a narrative that seemed to compensate for the absence she 'd just hollowed out of " Jolene " by becoming more potentially revealing about her own family and emotional makeup than almost anything she 's ever sung . <p> When Shaboozey appeared as a guest on Cowboy Carter , I had never heard of him , and in what felt like about 30 seconds later , he had the biggest hit of the year ( which I still really like ) -- and also seemed in some ways to be more successful at tilting the racial makeup of the country charts . My colleague Chris Molanphy has a great piece this week about what 's going on with that . Only part of it is gender , although when it comes to crossover , it was also conspicuous how much more casually the white dude Post Malone was able to mosey across the genre line . <p> I started out the summer resistant to " Espresso " as a culture-swallowing hit -- it sounded too much like other songs , even whole unrecognized genres of song . But with subsequent singles and then her album , it became clearer that Carpenter was more than a cutesy white appropriator , and actually had a whole consistent , witty , dirty-minded aesthetic behind her appeal . So I learned to stop worrying and love " Espresso , " which also refreshed a vital lesson for songwriters and critics alike , that with pop lyrics it is often all thebetter when they do n't make logical or grammatical sense . <p> The saga of Brat , which propelled perpetual alternative-pop second-stringer Charli to pop-culture prom queen , has been perhaps too much told . But especially post-Kendrick-and-Drake , the most heartwarming part was the switcheroo between versions one and two of " Girl , So Confusing , " the transition from purported catfight fodder to a celebration of empathy and friendship across mutual awkwardness . I preferred Charli and Lorde 's version to Galinda and Elphaba 's in Wicked , although both involved prominent tints of green . <p> All other details of the beef aside , this incredibly catchy anthem , more than any hit in recent memory , boggles my mind on a regular basis that a big hit is allowed to say the things it says . You ca n't forget where you were when you first heard it . Like nothing since " Pumped Up Kicks " or " My Neck , My Back , " maybe , it restores one 's faith in the bottomless weirdness of pop . The depth of that weirdness was perhaps best expressed , as so often with pop-culture news , in comedian Josh Johnson 's YouTube video about it . What the beef actually indicated about the general health of hip-hop as a field is another , less fun question . <p> But damn , it 's almost as if artists fostering parasocial relationships with fans through social media and Easter egg hunts over lyrical clues to their personal lives turns out to have a downside . I do n't fault any of these artists for their complaints . I just wonder if the overall conditions are capable of changing . <p> Just a bit more than a month after a documentary about her health condition that made many of us question whether she could ever perform again , C ? line Dion mounted the Eiffel Tower ( the Eiffel Tower ! ) and sang this song of doomed love by Edith Piaf ( Edith Piaf ! ) so passionately and perfectly that friends of mine who had resisted Dion their whole lives were instantly converted . In retrospect , obviously the timing of the documentary had been calculated in order to make her imminent comeback feel all the more miraculous . In my relief for her ( at least partial ) recovery , and awe at that performance , somehow I did n't resent the manipulation at all . <p> The best band in K-pop , at least to dabblers like me , is NewJeans , who put out its latest two singles this spring while becoming subsumed in a complex legal and corporate battle that has exposed a lot about how the K-pop industry functions behind the curtain . The young women in the band have publicly taken sides , which , depending on the outcome , might jeopardize the group 's existence . Meanwhile , this week , the South Korean president attempted to declare martial law , then was forced to take it back , as part of his ongoing clash with the legislative opposition . Did the NewJeans power struggle presage the South Korean government crisis ? Probably not . But does it mean the end of K-pop 's incredible winning streak ? Also doubtful , though it could bring some transformations , as Katherine St. Asaph writes at Stereogum . Still , so much drama ! <p> 9 . The Dream Birth of " Hit Em " Dance Music , July 29 <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> As proof that good things can still happen on the internet , near the end of July , Drew Daniel ( Johns Hopkins University English professor and half of the venerable experimental electronic duo Matmos ) tweeted that he 'd had a dream in which a girl at a rave told him about " a genre called ' hit em ' that is in 5/4 time at 212 bpm with super crunched out sounds . " ( Oh , and did he mention that he lived in a grave covered in slime ? ) Some 7 million views later , Daniel found that people all over the world were making his subconsciously conjured genre a reality and producing " Hit Em " tracks . In November , a 26-track Hit Em compilation was released by Tabula Rasa records titled Thank You , Dream Girl , including many well-known producers . But that 's only a small portion of the nearly " infinite jukebox " of Hit Em productions that are archived at the Hit Em website . And what does it sound like ? Super crunched out , mostly . <p> 10 . The Red Hot Org Is on Fire <p> Advertisement <p> The Red Hot Organization was founded in 1989 as an AIDS awareness and fundraising organization , and remembered from those days for the Red Hot and Blue Cole Porter tribute album featuring everyone from Sin ? ad O'Connor to the Jungle Brothers , which sold a million copies . It 's carried on ever since , but lately it seems to be operating at a particularly high level . Last month it released a nearly four-hour , trans-support-themed compilation called Transa , with contributors including Sade ( whose first new song in six years , " Young Lion , " is dedicated to her trans son ) , Julien Baker , Andr ? 3000 , Jlin , Moor Mother , Sam Smith , Beverly Glenn-Copeland , Laura Jane Grace , Perfume Genius , and too many others to name . That follows two more special-guest-packed , Sun Ra -- themed anthologies this year , one " hosted " in a sense by Meshell Ndegeocello and the other by the Kronos Quartet . Along with the Noise for Now reproductive rights organization 's delightful recent compilation Songs for Sex , these are all examples of part of what music people can do to face the coming challenges . <p> On the other hand , this harshly autotuned , saccharine power ballad by He Who Shall Not Be Named 's daughter-in-law ( who stepped away from her " music career " to co-chair the Republican National Committee this year ) is a dystopian ghost of pop future . I have n't been able to get " that little girl/ Ridin ' on her Pegasus " out of my head since April , mostly because David Rees on the Election Profit Makers podcast kept playing ridiculous digital deconstructions of it in every episode . It has become the sonic equivalent in my mind of Orwell 's " boot stamping on a human face -- forever . " And while the viral TikTok hit " Man in Finance , " by Girl on Couch/Megan Boni , was meant to be satirical , with its vocal-fried checklist of dating attributes ( " I 'm looking for a man in finance ... trust fund/ 6 ' 5 " / Blue eyes " ) , sadly , its apparent cultural accuracy makes it more depressing than amusing to me . At such moments , I reach for a powerful humanist statement like Laurie Anderson 's incredible setting of C.P. Cavafy 's all-too-relevant 1898 poem " Waiting for the Barbarians , " performed at Saint Thomas Church in New York . Or the Pet Shop Boys ' funny-sad plea to find " A New Bohemia . " <p> 12 . John Zorn Puts Out 12 Albums in 2024 <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Then again , we could just look back to the old bohemia . Last year , when music geeks widely celebrated the experimental label Tzadik coming at last to streaming services , we did n't stop to think that meant that we 'd be met by the ever-flowing spigot of its founder John Zorn 's astoundingly prolific output in real time . This year the New York avant-garde saxophonist , composer , and new-music impresario is 71 and he has released , as of this writing , 12 full-length albums -- not just live improv recordings as you might think , but three albums of compositions for organ , one live album of radical love songs , two volumes of the acclaimed classical singer Barbara Hannigan performing Zorn 's intricate vocal compositions , a quartet album called Ballades , another called Lamentations , a trio record called Her Melodious Lay , another of his ongoing project the New Masada Quartet live in concert , and a reunion of his death metal -- jazz trio Painkiller . On sampling , not a dud in the bunch . What have you been up to ? <p> Both the best Christmas song and perhaps the best protest song I 've heard this year is " Song of the Magi " by Carsie Blanton , a New Jersey DIY singer-songwriter whose latest album ( also very good ) is called After the Revolution.It was only after many listens that I found out " Magi " is actually a 2007 song by Ana ? s Mitchell , which I 've never heard anyone else revive . It turns on the simple fact that Bethlehem is now a West Bank war zone , as the biblical wise men tell the newborn infant in the manger , " Your home is a checkpoint now ... put your hands in the air , my child . " Yet fittingly for a seasonal hymn , it does end on a note of hope . Its only rival on that level is " Gaza Is Calling " by Mustafa ( formerly of Toronto ) , from his album Dunya.Despite the title , it 's no call to arms but an aching story about being separated from a Palestinian childhood friend whose mind was always drawn back to home . It 's about the complexity of exile , not easy solutions . <p> Sometimes you just want something simple and beautiful . Maggie Rogers ' single from last winter made me cry the first time I heard it and every time since . Amid 2024 's vast smorgasbord of sounds , " Do n't Forget Me " and Waxahatchee 's " Right Back to It " are the two that have kept replenishing me most -- and make me want to keep listening in 2025 , whatever else comes .
