<p> Ten candidates , revealed this morning on NBC 's Today show , are under consideration for TIME 's annual designation . Here are the finalists , in alphabetical order by last name . <h> Kamala Harris <p> Ronda Churchill -- AFP/Getty Images <p> The night of July 21 , President Joe Biden announced he was ending his presidential campaign and endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris for the Democratic nomination . What followed was a remarkable 107-day presidential campaign as Harris sought to become the first woman President . Harris centered her campaign on reproductive rights , slamming former President Donald Trump for his role in the U.S. Supreme Court 's decision to overturn Roe v. Wade , and suggested that Trump is a threat to democracy . But she lost to Trump , and conceded the race on Nov. 6 .. Harris , along with Biden , was previously on the Person of the Year cover in 2020 -- the year that the duo defeated Trump and former Vice President Mike Pence . <h> Kate Middleton <p> Samir Hussein -- WireImage/Getty Images <p> The Princess of Wales made international headlines this year and stirred a conversation about privacy and health for public figures . In January , Kate Middleton was hospitalized for two weeks for a " planned abdominal surgery " and Kensington Palace said she would be out of the public eye until Easter . But after conspiracy theories circulated online in March about Middleton 's whereabouts , the royal put the rumors to rest by revealing that she had been diagnosed with cancer . In September , Middleton announced that she had completed her chemotherapy treatment . Middleton was previously on the TIME100 list of Most Influential People in 2013 , and one of the runners-up for Person of the Year in 2011 . <h> Elon Musk <p> Tayfun Coskun -- Anadolu/Getty Images <p> Elon Musk has long been an innovative disrupter . From online payments to electric vehicles to commercial space , the Tesla CEO has upended industry , and in 2022 he purchased and revamped the social media platform previously known as Twitter , rebranding it as X in 2023 . But 2024 was the year that Musk -- the richest person in the world , according to Forbes -- stepped into the world of politics . He endorsed Trump , appeared at rallies , promoted pro-Trump content on X , and helped Trump form his presidential agenda . After Trump 's victory , Musk 's power only grew , and the President-elect announced that Musk would co-lead a new commission , the Department of Government Efficiency , that is expected to propose cuts to the federal workforce and to regulations . Musk was previously named TIME Person of the Year in 2021 . <h> Yulia Navalnaya <p> Lukas Barth -- AFP/Getty Images <p> Russian economist Yulia Navalnaya has been in the spotlight this year after her husband and the country 's leading dissident Alexei Navalny died in February . Navalnaya announced after her husband 's death in prison that she would continue his work . She accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of killing her husband and has met with world leaders , including Biden , as Russia continues its war in Ukraine . Dubbed the " first lady " of the Russian opposition , Navalnaya also made the list of TIME 's 100 Most Influential People of 2024 . <h> Benjamin Netanyahu <p> Anna Moneymaker -- Getty Images <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been one of the most influential and controversial world leaders this year . Defying criticism of his war on Hamas , the terrorist organization that killed 1,200 people in an attack against Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Netanyahu continued his military assault on the Gaza Strip this year , even as the death toll there rose to 44,056 , according to the Gaza Health Ministry . In September , Netanyahu expanded the war to Lebanon in the north , as Israel killed much of the leadership of Iran 's proxy , Hezbollah , with air strikes and using explosives hidden in pagers . " We 're in the midst of a war , a seven-front war , " Netanyahu told TIME in August . " I think we have to concentrate on one thing : winning . " In November , the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Netanyahu , his former defense minister , and Hamas ' military chief , on allegations of crimes against humanity . Netanyahu was on the TIME100 list in 2019 . <h> Jerome Powell <p> Yuki Iwamura -- Bloomberg/Getty Images <p> Jerome Powell has been chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve since 2018 , serving under both the Trump and Biden administrations . As chairman , he 's been steering the ship on the economy , which voters identified as the top issue in the 2024 election . Although Powell was nominated for the role by Trump , the President-elect repeatedly criticized the Fed during his first term in office , accusing it of keeping interest rates too high . Powell has since stressed the importance of the Fed 's independence from political parties and candidates . He 's been on the TIME100 list twice -- in 2019 and 2020 -- and was on the shortlist for Person of the Year in 2023 . <h> Donald Trump <p> Bill Pugliano -- Getty Images <p> In a stunning political comeback , Donald Trump won the 2024 election . He has reshaped the American electorate , activating young male voters who propelled him to a decisive victory that saw him win the popular vote for the first time and turn every swing state red . Trump 's remarkable victory comes after he lost the 2020 election to Biden and repeatedly refused to accept the results . His 2024 win is history-making in multiple ways : he will be the oldest President in U.S. history , and he was convicted earlier this year by a New York jury of 34 counts of fraud , making him the first convicted felon to be elected President . During his 2024 campaign , he identified the economy and the border as his top priorities . He 's promised to implement tariffs on America 's top trading partners -- Mexico , Canada , and China -- once he takes office , worrying economists , and has announced several controversial Cabinet appointments . Trump was previously named TIME 's Person of the Year in 2016 , the year he won the presidency for the first time . <h> Mark Zuckerberg <p> David Zalubowski -- AP <p> Mark Zuckerberg was under the microscope this year as the billionaire Meta CEO dealt with government scrutiny into Meta , which owns Facebook , Instagram , and other platforms . Earlier this year , Zuckerberg and other tech CEOs faced questioning during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the impact of social media on young people . During the 2024 election cycle , election , state , and local officials expressed concern over the rampant spread of misinformation on Facebook . Forbesestimated that , as of December , Zuckerberg 's net worth reached $210 billion , making him the fourth richest person in the world . He made the list for TIME100 AI in 2024 , and was named TIME 's Person of the Year in 2010 , the year that Facebook surpassed more than half a billion users .
