<p> President Joe Biden is leaving office in a few weeks and -- as presidents tend to do -- is sharing some self-reflective thoughts in the twilight of his term . Not about the war in Gaza or about his decision to remain in the 2024 race long after it became clear he was incapable of serving a second term -- but about Covidstimulus checks . <p> During a Tuesday speech at the Brookings Institution , Biden said he regretted not signing his name on pandemic-era stimulus payments as President-elect Donald Trump had . <p> " Within the first two months of office I signed the American Rescue Plan , " Biden said . " And also learned something from Donald Trump -- he signed checks for people , $7,400 for people because we passed the plan . I did n't -- stupid . " <p> Biden 's statement was incorrect on several fronts . The maximum amount given to an individual with no children through the three combined pandemic-era stimulus payments was $3,200 . Two of those checks were authorized under Trump 's administration , and the third under Biden . <p> Trump did make a show of having his name printed on the first round of checks issued in mid-2020 , marking the first time a president 's name had appeared on an IRS disbursement . While the president-elect was criticized for treating economic relief born of an act of Congress as a personal payment to Americans , his signature 's presence on the checks had staying power . <p> " I 'm sure people will be very happy to get a big , fat , beautiful check and my name is on it , " Trump said at the time . <p> Earlier this year , while campaigning for Vice President Kamala Harris , former President Barack Obama said that he often hears " folks say , ' Donald Trump sent me a check during the pandemic , ' " as a reason for their support of the Republican . <p> " Let me make sure y'all understand this . Joe Biden sent you a check during the pandemic , just like I gave people relief during the Great Recession . The thing is , we did n't put our name on it because it was n't about feeding our egos , it was n't about advancing our politics , it was about helping people . That 's the difference , " Obama added . <h> Editor 's picks <p> When Biden issued the third round of stimulus payments in March 2021 , he removed the presidential signature from the payments . Former White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at the time that " this is not about Biden . This is about the American people getting relief . " <p> Biden also used his speech at the Brookings Institution on Tuesday to warn of the devastating impact Trump 's economic plans could have for average Americans . <p> " The incoming administration is determined to return the country to another round of trickle-down economics and another tax cut for the wealthy that will not be paid for , " Biden said . " Once again causing massive deficits or significant cuts to basic programs like health care , education , and veterans benefits . " <p> " On top of that , he seems determined to impose steep universal tariffs on all imported goods , " he added . " I believe this approach is a major mistake . I believe we have proven that approach is a major mistake over the last four years . " <p> " But we 'll all know in time , we 'll all know in time , " the outgoing president lamented .
