<h> From Trump and Turkey , to Russia and Iran -- Syria 's regime change has huge global consequences <p> The dramatic toppling of the Syrian regime at the hands of rebel forces this weekend could have deep ramifications not only for the Middle Eastern country , but on global geopolitics and markets too , according to analysts . <p> After a lightning-fast offensive over the past fortnight that saw opposition groups move across the country , seizing key cities along the war , rebels led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . <p> The group finally seized the capital Damascus at the weekend , prompting President Bashar al-Assad to flee the country and to reportedly to take refuge in Russia , where he has been granted asylum . <p> TOPSHOT - This aerial picture shows a bullet-riddled portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad adorning Hama 's municipality building after it was defaced following the capture of the city by anti government fighters , on December 6 , 2024 . <p> Omar Haj Kadour Afp Getty Images <p> The dramatic toppling of Bashar al-Assad 's Syrian regime at the hands of rebel forces this weekend could have far-reaching consequences for the Middle Eastern country , global alliances and markets , according to analysts . <p> Over the past fortnight , rebel forces led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham carried out a lightning-fast offensive across the country , seizing key cities along the way . The faction finally claimed the capital Damascus at the weekend , prompting President Bashar al-Assad to flee the country and seek refuge in Russia , according to Russian state media reports . <p> The overthrow of Assad was greeted cautiously by Western nations who are wary of the potential for further bloodshed and of a power vacuum in Syria , if a chaotic and contested transition of leadership takes place . <p> A country riven with 13 years of brutal civil war Syria has seen competing factions -- including the terrorist group that styles itself the Islamic State -- fight each other as well as Assad 's force in recent years , raising the potential for rival power grabs . <p> For now , however , the fall of the Assad dynasty after over 50 years in power has more immediate global ramifications , with Russia and Iran seen as " losers " from the ousting of the Syrian dictator , while the U.S. , Turkey and Israel are viewed among the main beneficiaries from regime change . <p> An anti-government fighter holds a weapon as he keeps position near a defaced portrait of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , in the city of Hama after forces captured the central Syrian city , on December 6 , 2024 . <p> Omar Haj Kadour Afp Getty Images <p> " The rapid collapse of the Assad regime in Damascus will have repercussions well beyond Syria . The great losers are Iran and Russia , without whose support Assad would have lost the almost 14-year civil war long ago , " Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank , said in analysis Monday . <p> " Iran has likely lost its major route to send weapons to the Hezbollah terror militia in Lebanon . Despite a potential power vacuum in parts of Syria for a while , the Middle East could eventually be a little less unstable as a result , " Schmieding said in emailed comments . <h> U.S. , Europe emboldened <p> Starting with the U.S. , economists point out that the fall of Assad , and the accompanying weakening of Russia and Iran after the loss of a key ally in the region , will give U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and Western powers a welcome boost . <p> " The new reality is when Donald Trump assumes office on January 20th 2025 he will be facing a threat board where the opposition looks massively weakened , and how the U.S. holds many of the cards , " market strategist Bill Blain said in emailed comments Monday . <p> " That does n't mean the world is much less dangerous -- it 's entirely unclear what kind of new Syria might emerge from Assad 's overthrow -- but it feels like power and the global initiative could be shifting back to the West , " he added . <p> France 's President Emmanuel Macron ( C ) walks with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump ( R ) and Ukraine 's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy ( L ) after a meeting at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris on Dec. 7 , 2024 . <p> Julien De Rosa Afp Getty Images <p> Assad 's downfall and the " de facto defeat " of Russia and Iran in the process , Blain said , has " massive implications for markets in terms of unwinding fears around the dollar 's pre-eminence , while increasing the momentum that could develop behind Trump 's global trade vision " -- both in terms of putting the U.S. and the U.S. dollar front and center , he noted . <p> " The effect on sentiment could be immense in terms of global confidence and redirected flows into U.S. assets and commodities on rising growth expectations , " Blain said . <p> Europe could also be a beneficiary of the regime change in Syria , if it means fewer displaced refugees entering the region -- a development that has fueled anti-immigrant sentiment and the rise of populist parties in recent years . <h> Israel and Turkey boosted <p> The major immediate geopolitical " winners " are Israel and Turkey , analysts also noted , with the former seeing its regional nemesis Iran weakened further , thanks to Assad 's downfall -- while Ankara emerges as " the most influential foreign actor in the country , " Wolfango Piccoli , co-president at risk consultancy Teneo , noted on Sunday . <p> " Turkey , which shares a 560 miles long frontier with Syria , has been a main backer of opposition groups aiming to topple Assad since the outbreak of the civil war in 2011 , " he said in emailed comments . <p> " Turkey is ( for now ) set to be the biggest external beneficiary of Assad 's fall , " Piccoli said , although he cautioned that Ankara will only feel the benefits of the regime change in Damascus " if no dangerous vacuum of power emerges and the power is transferred relatively peacefully from now on . " <p> Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan delivers a national statement at the World Climate Action Summit during the United Nations Climate Change Conference ( COP28 ) in Dubai , United Arab Emirates , December 1 , 2023 . <p> Thaier Al-sudani Reuters <p> " In other words , Turkey stands to benefit only if the Assad regime is replaced by a functioning government able to face the daunting task of delivering stability to a diverse country with competing factions that will need billions of dollars in aid and investments to rebuild , " Piccoli said . <p> " Unsurprisingly , Turkish authorities have urged Syrian opposition groups to unite following the fall of the regime in Damascus while avoiding any triumphalist claim , " he noted . <p> Israel is seen as a beneficiary of Assad 's fall because of its impact on Iran , which has used Syria as a supply route to its proxy in Lebanon , the militant group Hezbollah . Israel has looked to severely weaken this supply chain as part of its military campaign against Iranian proxies in Lebanon and the Gaza Strip . <p> In a Monday note , David Roche at Quantum Strategy described Assad 's fall as the first major geopolitical plate shift that weakens " the Axis of Autocracies " including Iran and Russia in a long time . <p> " It does not do away with the Israel -- Iran conflict . But it strengthens the hand of the Israel and U.S. to continue zapping Iran 's economic strength ( which Trump will do with hard sanctions to begin with ) . Ultimately Iran 's nuclear ambitions will still have to be dealt with militarily . But that comes later ( end 2025 2026 ? ) , " Roche said . <h> Russia weakened <p> The other most notable " loser " from Assad 's overthrow is his ally and backer Russia , which has helped prop up Assad 's regime since the start of the civil war . This time around , Moscow 's focus on the conflict in Ukraine has limited the amount of military aid it was willing and able to give to Assad 's forces . <p> There 's no doubt that Russia will be concerned over the amount of much influence -- and good will -- it can expect from a new leadership in Syria . Moscow has a vested interest in keeping the new government on side as it operates an air base in Hmeimim , along with a naval base in Tartus that gives it access to the Mediterranean Sea . <p> Rebel forces have given the Kremlin assurances that they would guarantee the safety of Russian military bases and diplomatic institutions in Syria , Reuters reported citing Russian news agencies , but Russia 's long-term military presence in the country is seen as far from certain . <p> A man sits in front of a poster depicting the since-ousted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad ( L ) and Russian President Vladimir Putin and reading in Arabic " Syria stands with the Russian Federation " , in Syria 's port city of Tartus on July 24 , 2022 . <p> Louai Beshara Afp Getty Images <p> Timothy Ash , emerging markets strategist at BlueBay Asset Management , described Assad 's ousting as a " huge humiliation for Putin who has made a lot of the fact that he never abandons his allies . " <p> " The limits of Russian military power have now been revealed -- unable to fight multiple wars , and still bogged down in Ukraine . Putin is struggling to hang on to the prized asset of the Tartus warm water port -- and if he keeps it , he might have had to give Turkey concessions elsewhere , " Ash said . <p> He further noted that Putin " now goes into Ukraine peace talks from a position of weakness , " adding that developments in Syria make " a better Ukrainian peace " more likely . <p> As for Iran , strategist Ash said Tehran 's misfortunes had just grown , after Israel already severely weakened its proxies , Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza Strip . <p> " Iran -- it just goes from bad to worse as another proxy domino drops , Hezbollah , now Assad . Could Tehran be next ? Could we see internal forces arise again ? " Ash said in emailed comments , questioning what Tehran can now do " to stop the rot " of its influence .
