<h> Yousef Abo Magadem is the first Bedouin director to make a feature film . <p> Directors whose films are about to be released often get interrupted during interviews to take phone calls about details of screenings , publicity , or posters . But until I met Yousef Abo Madegem , the director of Eid , a highly acclaimed movie playing throughout Israel now , no director had ever excused himself to sell a living room set . <p> There are many ways that Madegem is different from most Israeli directors , and one is that his day job is running a furniture store and workshop , Petra Home Design , in Rahat , his hometown . Rahat is the largest Bedouin city in Israel , and he is the first Bedouin director to make a feature film . <p> As he showed three young women wearing hijabs the options available on display at his store , I looked around the office and noticed something you wo n't see in any other furniture store in the world : A certificate from the Jerusalem Film Festival proclaiming that Eid had won the Haggiag Competition for Israeli Feature Films , the festival 's top prize . <p> Madegem , at the age of 54 , has broken barriers as a total outsider who got his movie made in the often cliquish world of the Israeli film industry , but he 's more than a curiosity . <p> Eid is a great film that tells a unique story of a young construction worker from Rahat who loves literature and wants to process the trauma of a sexual assault he suffered by writing a Jean Genet-influenced play . He is encouraged in his ambition by an Arab actress who lives in Paris with whom he communicates via Skype , while his parents pressure him to marry an uneducated woman , which is the last thing he wants . MAR'I AND Angham Khalil in ' Eid. ' ( credit : United King Films ) <p> No one has ever made a movie quite like this , and Eid skillfully blends all its themes , avoiding clich ? s and easy answers , to say something moving about a troubled young artist that will resonate with moviegoers around the world . <p> In addition to the prize at the Jerusalem Film Festival , the lead actor , Shadi Mar'i , best known for Fauda , won the Best Actor Award at that festival and also the Ophir Award for Best Actor this year . <p> MADEGEM SOON resumed our interview , having made a deal for some living room furniture , which will help support his three sons and seven daughters , a large family compared to most film-industry professionals . <p> The classic question to ask a filmmaker who has just made his debut film , especially one that seems to have personal elements , is whether it is , in fact , autobiographical . <p> " Eid is based on a true story , but it 's about a friend of mine , " said Madegem . " He was the victim of a sexual assault that he could n't talk about while he was growing up , and then he wanted to be a writer . <p> " We decided about 20 years ago to make a movie about his life experience , then he felt that , no , he could n't deal with it . So he wrote a play about it , which was performed and which won an award for the best play at the Akko Festival of Alternative Theatre . Afterward , we decided again that we would do a film about it . The screenplay changed as we worked on it , but the basic story remained the same . " <p> There have been feature films about Bedouin made previously , notably Sharqiya ( 2012 ) and Sand Storm ( 2016 ) , and while both were good , they were made by Jewish directors . <p> " Who other than you can tell your story ? " said Madegem . " Just you . Because you have power and you have knowledge that no one else has . You can add details and information effortlessly . You do n't have to think about whether , and how , to make the story emotional . The emotion is all built into the story , and you understand how to tell it . " <p> I wondered whether telling the story of a sexual assault victim in his community could cause problems for him . <p> Madegem said that was not a concern . " Cinema was born to create a conversation . It 's very important that there will be a discussion about this subject ... It 's true in many cultures that people stay quiet about this . " <p> He said he felt that the subject of sexual violence against boys was especially taboo . " Why is it that we warn girls not to take candy from strangers , but we do n't warn boys ? " <h> Bedouin society ready to open debate , beginning discussions <p> But Bedouin society is ready to have this debate now , he said . " We simply have to begin the discussion , " he said . " We need to get to another level in bringing this out in the open . " <p> While the vast majority of the reactions he got from the Bedouin community were positive when the film was screened in Jerusalem and the Cinema South Festival , " There was criticism ; I want there to be criticism about the content . If there is agreement across the board , for me , that 's not good . That means that the movie is too slick . " <p> He had great praise for Shadi Mar'i , who was important in bringing his complex vision to life . " He 's an amazing person . He came open-minded . Tabula rasa ... he lets you mold his performance as you go along . He does as you ask , but he comes with ideas ... He 'll ask for another take , he 'll say , ' I could give more . ' He really deserved the Ophir Award . He has been waiting to play a lead role , and he really stepped up . " <p> AS MADEGEM took a phone call , I reflected on how similar this industrial zone looked to other such neighborhoods around the country . Like many Israelis , I had never been to Rahat and thought of it as remote and inaccessible . But it turns out that it takes about the same time to reach it by train from Jerusalem as it takes to go to Haifa , a journey I have made countless times . <p> The Rahat-Lehavim station lets you off in Lehavim , a Jewish suburb , but a modern highway connects it to Rahat , which is just a few kilometers away . The only real hint that we were in a Bedouin town was that a bridal store near Madegem 's workshop showed posters of models in wedding gowns with matching white satin hijabs . <p> Madegem grew up here , the son of an agricultural worker . He wanted to go to university after high school , but there was no money , so he worked in construction , like Eid , and eventually enrolled in social work school , but dropped out after a year . <p> Always interested in taking photographs , he heard about a program at Sapir Academic College in Sderot that also taught filmmaking and got a BA there . His parents were mystified by his choice , not understanding how he would support himself and his family . <p> " It was n't just my parents who did n't understand , it was the whole society . " <p> As he went on to get a master 's degree and to study for a doctorate at the University of Haifa , he taught photography at high schools . When he got into financial trouble because a partner had mismanaged his store , his teachers at Sapir helped him by getting him scholarships and on-campus jobs . He also made television news features for Rafik Halabi . <p> All the while , he dreamed of making his first film . Eventually , he teamed up with Yuval Aharoni , who received screenwriter credit on Eid , and submitted it to Israeli film funds . They were given money from several film funds to develop Eid , including the Rabinovich Foundation , the Gesher Film Fund , Mifal Hapayis , and Keren Darom . <p> Some Arab filmmakers refuse to take money from Israeli film funds , but Madegem did n't hesitate . " I pay a lot of taxes , so I 'm entitled to this money . However , it does limit where the film can be shown in the Arab world . " It 's a little-known fact that Arab Israeli artists are boycotted by the BDS movement , as well as Jewish ones . <p> " It also hurts its chances to be accepted to international film festivals during the war . I hope eventually it will go to countries like Morocco , the UAE , maybe Tunisia . " The movie is set to be shown at a number of film festivals around the world soon , including in the US and Europe . <p> OPENING THE movie during the war has not been simple . " The movie was almost done when the war broke out . The war did n't interfere with it getting finished . But it was hard to feel completely happy about it because of the war , because of all the pain , all the destruction , the ruins , the victims , all of the loss . " <p> Like many Bedouin , the Hamas attack touched his life . Eighteen Bedouin were killed on October 7 and seven were taken hostage . " Two relatives of mine were killed in the war . Several were wounded . The hostages from the Ziyadne family , Yousef and Hamza , are cousins of my son-in-law . " Yousef and Hamza are still held hostage in Gaza . <p> He recently made a documentary about how the Bedouin in Israel are coping with the war , called Open Wound , which was shown at the Cinema South Festival and details how Bedouin have lost relatives both in Israel and in Gaza . <p> Even without the war breaking out , it was a long , hard road to get Eid to the screen , and Madegem earned very little from it , but it was a labor of love . <p> " It 's very little money , it 's a joke , but when you make a film that wins prizes , there is prestige and recognition . And there 's something more important . There 's the peace of mind , the satisfaction you get from making it . I 'm proud of myself , and my family is proud of me ... Every time I see it , I see it as if it 's new , I feel a different emotion . And it 's a great feeling . " <p> While the movie 's hero is Bedouin , he said , " It 's not a movie just for Bedouin or Israeli society . It 's a movie that crosses barriers , borders , societies , languages . That 's what 's great about making a movie and getting it out to the world . "
