<h> Assad dynasty collapses in Syria as rebel forces claim Damascus <p> Syria has been rocked by 13 years of civil conflict , sparked by the March 2011 pro-democracy demonstrations against repressive governmental rule . <p> The Syrian escalations take place as Assad 's allies Russia and Lebanese militant group Hezbollah have been increasingly distracted by battle on their own home fronts , engaging Ukraine and Israel , respectively . <p> Markets have been watching the military developments for signs of an impact on supplies in the oil-rich Middle East , as well as further trade disruptions along critical trade routes . <p> TOPSHOT - Fighters fire towards Syrian Army troops in the Rashidin district on the outskirts of Aleppo on Nov. 29 , 2024 . <p> Bakr Alkasem Afp Getty Images <p> The more than 50-year Assad dynastic dictatorship was on the cusp of collapse on Sunday , as rebel forces seized the capital of Damascus in a lightning offensive that has swept the country 's largest cities in a matter of days . <p> The defense forces of the Russia and Iran-backed government have been struggling to stymy the rebel advance that kicked off with the rapid sweep of northern city Aleppo last week , breaking a years-long stalemate . The attack has been led by the Islamist militant group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- which the U.S. and U.N . Security Council designated as a terrorist organization -- and its allies , who have widened the scope of their campaign to the south of the country and now also captured the key cities of Hama and Deir el-Zor . <p> " We declare the city of Damascus free from the tyrant Bashar al-Assad , " Hassan Abdul-Ghani , senior HTS commander , said in a post on WhatsApp . " To the displaced people around the world , Free Syria awaits you . " <p> CNBC could not independently verify developments of the ground . <p> The whereabouts of President Bashar al-Assad , who assumed leadership in 2000 after the death of his father Hafez , were uncertain . Multiple media reports , which CNBC could not independently confirm , state he has fled Damascus . The Russian Foreign Ministry later on Sunday said that Assad had decided to leave his presidential post and the country . <p> Syrian Prime Minister Ghazi al-Jalali said he remained at his home and was prepared to support the continuity of Syrian governance . <p> " We believe that Syria belongs to all Syrians and to all its citizens , and that this country can be a normal state , one that builds good relations with its neighbors without entering into any regional alliances or blocs , " he said , according to NBC News reporting . " This matter is left to any leadership chosen by the Syrian people , and we are ready to cooperate with them by providing all possible facilitation . " <p> The U.N . Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen on Sunday stressed this is a " watershed moment " in the Syrian civil war , calling for " stable and inclusive transitional arrangements . " <p> Several nations have evacuated their embassies amid the Damascus conflict , with outgoing U.S. President Joe Biden " closely monitoring " the events and retaining contact with regional partners , according to White House National Security Council Spokesman Sean Savett . <h> Distracted allies <p> The advance on Damascus comes after militants reached Homs -- the country 's third-largest city and a chokepoint between rebel-held territories and the capital city . Holding Homs would pose significant challenges for the rebels , who would have to confront a concentration of government forces and gain the support of local pro-Assad Alawite communities , Atlantic Council Senior Fellow Qutaiba Idlbi wrote on Dec. 5 . <p> " More importantly , the rebels advancing toward Homs will test Russia 's redlines in Syria . So far , Russia has been absent from providing serious military support to uphold Assad 's defenses across areas he 's losing to the rebels , " Idlbi added . " While Russia has conducted some airstrikes in Idlib and Aleppo to counter rebel advances , it has not engaged directly in Hama . This restraint reflects Moscow 's strategic calculations to avoid overextension . " <p> Syria has been rocked by 13 years of civil conflict , sparked by the March 2011 pro-democracy demonstrations against repressive governmental rule , in lockstep with similar regional uprisings during the Arab Spring . The Assad administration answered the Syrian protests with deadly force , leading to calls for his resignation , nationwide unrest and the rise of opposition groups . Peace talks carried out separately by the U.N . and by Russia , Iran , and Turkey have yet to bear fruit . <p> The Syrian escalations take place as Assad 's allies Russia and Lebanese militant group Hezbollah have been increasingly distracted by battle on their own home fronts , engaging Ukraine and Israel , respectively . The Syrian unrest exacerbates the broader conflict in the Middle East , which was set off in October 2023 by a terror attack perpetrated by Palestinian militant group Hamas in Israel , leading to the Jewish nation 's retaliatory military campaign in the Gaza Strip and to its fire exchanges with Hezbollah , Yemeni Houthi and Iran . <p> " This lightning-fast offensive is a monumental shift in the Syrian conflict and highlights the regime 's inherent weakness , " wrote Natasha Hall , a senior fellow with the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies , further noting that the " fragile stasis collapsed as Assad 's allies , Iran and Hezbollah , have been significantly weakened " by Israeli military offensives , while " Russia has been bogged down in Ukraine and unrest in Georgia . " <p> In an update on his Truth Social platform , U.S. President-elect Donald Trump suggested Assad 's " protector , Russia , Russia , Russia , led by Vladimir Putin , was not interested in protecting him any longer . There was no reason for Russia to be there in the first place . They lost all interest in Syria because of Ukraine . " <p> Markets have been watching the military developments for signs of an impact on supplies in the oil-rich Middle East , as well as further trade disruptions along critical trade routes .
