<h> Hypocrisy and deception : The gender segregation bill - opinion <h> Legislation that is so deeply rooted in hypocrisy and deception should not be considered by the legislative bodies of Israel . <p> MK LIMOR SON HAR-MELECH attends a meeting of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee , earlier this year . She has presented a bill which seeks to expand and legitimize gender segregation in Israel 's institutions of higher education , beyond what the High Court has permitted. ( photo credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <p> I wish to highlight another reason why this proposal should have been rejected outright : It reeks of hypocrisy and deception , and it is time to set a moral barrier against such dishonest legislation . <p> The issue at hand is not new but is particularly glaring in this instance . The bill 's explanatory notes claim that it is " based on the recognition of freedom of religion and conscience ... as a broad fundamental right . " On the surface , this language appears commendable and worthy of support , especially during these turbulent times when we look to the " day after " and the reimagining of Israel as a truly Jewish and democratic state . After all , Israel 's Declaration of Independence , promises " freedom of religion and conscience " alongside " equality of rights ... regardless of religion , race , or gender . " <p> However , the hypocrisy of MK Son Har-Melech and her party could not be more blatant . While claiming to champion freedom of religion , they actively oppose the very principles of freedom of religion and conscience guaranteed by the Declaration of Independence . Her insistence that the bill reflects " the recognition of freedom of religion and conscience as a broad fundamental right " is the most grotesque form of hypocrisy and deception . <p> It recalls the Talmudic adage attributed to Alexander Yannai : " Fear not the Pharisees , nor the non-Pharisees , but the hypocrites who appear to be Pharisees ; their deeds are like those of Zimri , yet they demand the reward of Phineas . " MK LIMOR Son Har-Melech speaks during a protest outside the Supreme Court in Jerusalem , earlier this year . She has proposed an amendment to the Negev Development Law that would enable Kiryat Arba to receive the same benefits as the Gaza border communities . ( credit : Chaim Goldberg/Flash90 ) <h> " Freedom of religion " <p> The " freedom of religion " invoked by MK Son Har-Melech is not the universal principle recognized by enlightened democracies . Instead , it is a narrowly defined freedom for a specific brand of religious Jews to enforce gender-segregated university programs at the expense of gender equality while subverting Supreme Court rulings . This is not freedom of religion as a " broad fundamental right " ; it is a blemish on Israeli academia , a discriminatory policy benefiting Son Har-Melech 's religious and ideological allies while denying religious freedom and freedom from religion to others -- Jews and non-Jews alike . <p> In other areas , MK Son Har-Melech and her party actively perpetuate religious coercion , discrimination , and assaults on individual liberties and human dignity , all while trampling the very principle of freedom of religion they claim to uphold . <p> Well-known examples include their opposition to freedom of marriage in Israel , which denies hundreds of thousands of citizens the right to marry . They impose the authority of the Orthodox Chief Rabbinate on all Jewish citizens , despite its extreme Orthodox interpretation of Jewish law , which is rejected by an overwhelming majority of Israeli and world Jews . Similarly , they oppose public transportation on Shabbat , infringing on the freedom of the majority who support such services and hurting segments of the population who do not have private cars or are unable to drive . <p> Consistent polling , including the annual Religion and State Index published by Hiddush , reveals that 65 -- 75% of Israelis support marriage freedom and public transportation on Shabbat . These majorities also endorse all other aspects of religious freedom and conscience , all of which are systematically undermined by MK Son Har-Melech and her allies . They cynically claim to base their legislation on " broad fundamental rights of freedom of religion and conscience , " while promoting gender segregation in higher education in direct contradiction to democratic and egalitarian values . <p> This is not about religious freedom but about expanding the exclusion of women and eroding the fundamental principles of a democratic and egalitarian society . In addition to all other justified objections to this bill , it is time to introduce an ethical threshold that blocks such proposals at the outset .
