<h> Netanyahu will take questions from the press for the first time in 99 days . <p> In a dramatic press conference on the evening prior to the beginning of his criminal trial testimony , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lashed out at Israel 's law enforcement and the media , accusing the former of a " political " investigation and a " witch hunt " intended to bring him down . <p> The prime minister accused law enforcement of an organized " method , " which began with harsh investigations of " dozens " of people in his vicinity and then with " fabricating " crimes that he did not commit . <p> Netanyahu linked the indictment of one of his aides , Eliezer Feldstein , to his own trial -- for leaking top-secret information to foreign press -- arguing that law enforcement treated Feldstein in ways that were " undemocratic , " charging that in this case as well , investigators pressured him to provide information about the prime minister himself . <p> Netanyahu gave as another example an ongoing investigation into Israel Prison Service head Koby Yaakobi and another senior police officer , the former reportedly for alerting the latter about suspicions that the police officer had provided National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir with classified information in exchange for a promotion . <p> Yaakobi was detained for questioning by police investigators , who pulled him over while he was driving and did not give him prior notice . This was also an example of bad conduct by law enforcement , Netanyahu claimed . <p> The prime minister 's comments regarding the trial came as an answer to reporters ' questions following a statement in which he laid out Israel 's achievements in the war , arguing that they were a result of his ability to withstand pressure on him " from without and from within " to stop the war . <p> Netanyahu attacked individual reporters , including KAN 's Michael Shemesh and Channel 12 's Yolan Cohen , accusing them of spreading lies . However , the prime minister himself made a number of comments that contradicted his earlier statements or were misleading . <p> For example , he claimed in response to a question by Shemesh that he knew Feldstein and believed that he was a patriot ; Shemesh pointed out the prime minister 's first official response to the affair was to deny any connection to Feldstein . <p> The prime minister has refused to form a national commission of inquiry into the October 7 Hamas massacre , attempting instead to form an ad-hoc committee whose members will be appointed by Members of the Knesset from the coalition and opposition . <p> In response to a question on the matter , Netanyahu said that there were many people who did not approve of a national commission of inquiry . However , numerous polls have shown recently that a significant majority of Israelis prefer a national commission of inquiry over any other form of investigation . <p> Netanyahu has said in the past that the trial would not affect his ability to fulfill his duties , and he repeated the claim at the press conference on Monday , giving as an example the Abraham Accords and his government 's performance during the COVID-19 crisis . <p> The prime minister said that he was eager to testify and that claims he was attempting to evade his testimony were false . He then claimed , however , that testifying three times a week was " extraordinary . " Netanyahu has requested numerous delays in the trial in general and his testimony in particular , even after receiving a five-month delay that began in July . <p> Families of the " October Council " responded to the prime minister 's remarks on a state commission of inquiry , saying , " The public has spoken loud and clear . Over 80% of Israeli citizens demand a state commission of inquiry into the catastrophic failure of October 7 . " <p> " We , the bereaved families , families of hostages , and evacuees , urge the government to honor the will of the people . We will stand firm and united against any attempt to form a political whitewashing committee , " the statement said . <p> After the clash between the prime minister and journalists during the question and answer session , The Journalists Organization put out the following statement , saying that it " strongly condemns Prime Minister Netanyahu 's incitement and attacks against journalists who are simply doing their job and serving the public interest . " <p> " We stand firmly with journalists Yolan Cohen and Michael Shemesh as they carry out their professional responsibilities . The role of the media is to ask tough questions of the prime minister -- any prime minister . " <p> In the second case , known as Case 2000 , Netanyahu is suspected of proposing a deal to Yediot Aharonot owner Arnon ( Noni ) Mozes , whereby he would target Yediot 's main competitor , Israel Hayom , in exchange for positive coverage . <p> In the third case , known as Case 4000 , Netanyahu is suspected of providing Shaul Elovitch , a major shareholder of a number of communications and media companies , including Bezek , with regulatory benefits in exchange for positive coverage from Walla , which Elovitch also owned . In this case , Netanyahu was indicted for bribery on top of fraud and breach of trust . <h> Yair Lapid responds <p> After the press conference , Opposition leader Yair Lapid said , " On a day when four soldiers were killed in the North and three more in the Gaza Strip , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu focused on one thing only : himself . His speech was a disgraceful display of self-aggrandizement . " <p> " For anyone questioning why an individual facing criminal indictments can not serve as prime minister , last night 's press conference provided the answers . It was a parade of falsehoods and self-praise , with Netanyahu brazenly claiming credit for the achievements of the defense establishment , whose bravery contrasted starkly with his ineffectual leadership . " <p> " Netanyahu 's press conference did not address the nation 's concerns or provide reassurance . Instead , it served his personal agenda , coinciding with his upcoming court testimony . His assertion that he has been " waiting eight years to testify " is nothing short of farcical . Delays occurred because he exploited every legal loophole to avoid accountability . The legal system is not persecuting him ; rather , he is haunted by his own past . Netanyahu broke the law , and he must be held accountable . " <p> " Israel does not need Netanyahu to manage the current security crisis . In fact , his leadership contributed to the current turmoil . He bears responsibility for October 7 , the war , and the continued captivity of hostages . Moreover , his government , characterized by extremist elements , has deepened societal divisions and undermined national resilience . " <p> " Netanyahu must step aside to stand trial , negotiate a plea deal if he chooses , and allow Israel to restore stability and sanity . The State of Israel needs a path forward unimpeded by his divisive leadership . " <p> National Unity leader Benny Gantz posted on X/Twitter , saying , " This evening , as we mourn the loss of seven of our finest , the people of Israel deserve a prime minister who is moved and shaken when speaking about our hostages and fallen -- not when the conversation turns to himself . " <p> " It is deeply troubling that , in the name of his personal legal battle , Netanyahu is undermining the judicial system and fragmenting our society . " <p> Families from the ' October Council ' respond to the Prime Minister 's remarks on a state commission of inquiry , saying , " The public has spoken loud and clear . Over 80% of Israeli citizens demand a state commission of inquiry into the catastrophic failure of October 7 . " <p> " We , the bereaved families , families of hostages , and evacuees , urge the government to honor the will of the people . We will stand firm and united against any attempt to form a political whitewashing committee , " the statement added . <p> After the clash between the prime minister and journalists during the question and answer session , The Journalists Organization put out the following statement , saying , " The Journalists ' Organization strongly condemns Prime Minister Netanyahu 's incitement and attacks against journalists who are simply doing their job and serving the public interest . " <p> " We stand firmly with journalists Yulan Cohen and Michael Shemesh as they carry out their professional responsibilities . The role of the media is to ask tough questions of the Prime Minister -- any Prime Minister . "
