<p> The fall of Syria 's President Bahsar al-Assad is a blow to Russia , terror-monger Iran , and their Hezbollah cronies in Lebanon . But Syria 's next chapter is starting with uncertainty . President-elect Trump 's goal is restoring peace to the Middle East -- and the road now runs through Damascus . <p> " Not our fight , " Trump stated . Quite canny of him , for in 2019 , he wisely left outposts of about 900 U.S. forces both at An Tanf , a junction near Iraq 's border , and along the oil fields at Deir Al Zour , blocking a return of the defeated ISIS caliphate . <p> Fingers crossed that the end of Assad wo n't be the beginning of ISIS 2.0 . <p> Assad was terrible . Remember his use of chemical weapons against his own people ? In 2013 , the Assad regime launched rockets carrying the deadly nerve agent sarin into the Ghouta district of Damascus , killing more than 1,400 people , according to the U.S. Department of State , and used them again in 2017 . Trump ordered airstrikes on Syrian chemical weapons sites with U.S. B-1 bombers , along with France and Britain , in 2018 . <p> Abu Mohammed al-Golani checks the damage following an earthquake in the village of Besnaya in Syria 's northwestern Idlib province at the border with Turkey , on Feb. 7 , 2023 . ( Omar Haj Kadour/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> " There is not a single household in Syria that the war has not touched . Praise be to God , today Syria is recovering , " said Hayat Tahrir al-Sham leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani in his speech at the Umyyad mosque yesterday . <p> What remains to be seen is if these rebels -- who took just 11 days to depose Assad -- want to launch a recovery in Syria , or return to their al Qaeda roots . Syria 's economy is weak , unemployment is high and Syria is still coping with the 2023 earthquake that killed 5500 and affected many more . This could go either way . <p> Uncertain as the situation is , for now , the geopolitics are quite satisfying . Russia 's Vladimir Putin takes a big loss . He could n't keep his client Assad in power , and with Aleppo , Damascus and Homs in rebel hands , Russia 's air base at the international airport near Latakia and naval base on the Mediterranean coast at Tartus are more or less on lockdown . Syria was a major investment for Putin and , in a way , his training ground for Ukraine . With Assad gone , it 's all blown up . <p> As for the Iranians , they 've lost a member of their so-called axis of resistance . Their supply corridor into Hezbollah in Lebanon is now choked off . Syria was " a playground for Iran 's ambitions , " Golani said , but no more . A senior Iranian running terror militias was killed by HTS forces in Aleppo on Nov. 28 . Decimated by Israel and pinned down by U.S. deterrent forces , there was not much Iran could do for Assad . <p> The bad news ? Syria is now in the hands of a UN-designated terrorist group . Golani , age 42 , has been a slick operative for years , admiring the 9/11 attacks but carving out his own base in northern Syria after opting not to ally with various al Qaeda leaders . You get the feeling that Golani calculated he 'd do better on his own in Syria , instead of paying allegiance to some big-name al Qaeda outsider . It 's a little worrying that he calls himself " Golani " in reference to Israel 's takeover of the Golan Heights in 1967 , when his grandfather fled before Israel 's armies . <p> For now , much depends on how Golani handles his victorious forces . If prudent , he will keep them behaving as liberators . And he will stay away from the Golan Heights , newly reoccupied by Israel Defense Force troops . <p> Opposition fighters remove a government flag from an official building in Salamiyah , east of Hama , Syria , Saturday Dec. 7 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed ) <p> Of course , the big concern is keeping a lid on ISIS . In the west , the Syrian Defense Forces , allied with the U.S. , are " sitting on top of a prison system with approximately 10,000 ISIS fighters incarcerated in it , " retired Gen. Frank McKenzie told ABC News on Mar. 31 . U.S. commanders have warned for years that the camps seethe with resentment . If released , the ISIS detainees and their kin could filter out to strengthen other ISIS groups , potentially increasing the risks of terror attacks in the U.S. and Europe -- a " whole new chapter of ISIS violence , " in McKenzie 's words . <p> My mind is on the U.S. forces in Syria . Although small , they are very capable forces , and closely monitored by U.S. Central Command airpower as part of the enduring " defeat ISIS " mission . U.S. Air Force A-10 Warthogs carried out a low " show of force " flight in Syria on Dec. 3 , to shoo enemies away , while others -- probably Special Forces -- were destroying mortars and armored personnel carriers after a rocket and mortar attack near Military Support Site Euphrates . All year , U.S. air forces have consistently launched airstrikes against both Iran-backed militia teams and at ISIS clusters in Syria . <p> Hopefully , the departure of Assad is a new beginning . But Syria has a long way to go , and Trump 's team just got yet another crisis to resolve . <p> The passion of U.S. presidents across party lines is peace in the Middle East . There has n't been a single one since Nixon who did n't strive to his utmost , from Carter 's Camp David Accords through Biden 's frantic attempts at a ceasefire in Gaza . Trump wants peace in the Middle East , too , but the difference is that , given his first term success with the Abraham Accords , he can get it . But that road now runs through Damascus . <h> Best of Opinion <p> Get the recap of top opinion commentary and original content throughout the week . <p> Arrives Twice a week <p> By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button , you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use , and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News . You understand that you can opt-out at any time .
