<p> As Syrians celebrated across Damascus and elsewhere in the country , other powers in the region took action . Citing a supposed threat from anti-Israel militant groups in a country now undergoing a massive political upheaval , Israeli troops occupied five villages across the Golan Heights , an area in Syria 's southwest . It also struck countless other targets across the country . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The move was immediately denounced as a violation of international law . The backlash cued up an inevitable response from the Biden administration , which for all intents and purposes has been relegated to the role of a public relations firm smoothing over caustic rhetoric and actions from Israeli hardliners , including those in the government . <p> " The Syrian army abandoned its positions in the area around the negotiated Israeli-Syrian buffer zone , which potentially creates a vacuum that could have been filled by terrorist organizations that would threaten the state of Israel , would threaten civilians inside Israel , " said State Department spokesman Matt Miller on Monday , though he did n't give any evidence of those groups having attempted to move in . <p> He 'd go on to say that " this is a temporary action that they have taken in response to actions by the Syrian military to withdraw from that area , " while adding that the Biden administration , which has a little more than a month left in office , would be " watching what steps Israel takes in the coming weeks " . <p> Miller 's promise appears to have been even more short-lived than others the Biden administration has been forced to break over the past year -- like its vow to take action after 30 days if Israel did not meaningfully improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza , which Oxfam and other aid groups say it has n't . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Even before the end of the business day in Washington , a starkly different message had been issued from a Twitter account operated by Benjamin Netanyahu 's office : " The importance of this historic recognition has been underscored today . The Golan Heights will be an inseparable part of the State of Israel forever . " <p> As Netanyahu made his pronouncement , other Israelis celebrated the apparent land grab openly on social media . <p> But the timing of Netanyahu 's statement could n't have been clearer -- a direct rebuke to the diplomatic arm of the Biden administration , which has long been out of step with the right-wing Israeli government . The White House and Biden-Harris campaign , as part of failed efforts to appeal to moderates , sought to portray the administration as a relentless supporter of Israel all while begging their younger base not to abandon the party over Israel 's siege of Gaza . Neither strategy worked , in particular because the Israeli government has been consistently willing to publicly reject the promises and white-washed statements of concern for Palestinian lives uttered by Biden 's talking heads , as well as the president himself . <p> For months , the Israeli government denied that it would consider the possibility of allowing the establishment of a sovereign Palestinian state , something the Biden White House has said is a necessary part of a lasting peace process . Now , it rejects the prospect of even staying within its own territory . <p> By Tuesday 's briefing , the tone had changed at the State Department : " I will let Israel speak to what it hopes to accomplish . I can say , on behalf of the United States , we 're going to discuss this with them privately before I opine publicly , " Miller said at Tuesday 's briefing . <p> The agency spokesman was grilled in response by Al-Quds News Service reporter Said Arikat , who questioned whether allowing Israel 's military to " conquer " the Golan was a " private matter " , using Miller 's verbiage . <p> Miller would parry the question by stressing the need to " ascertain what they ( Israel ) are doing " before commenting on the matter -- a difficult prospect given that he had defended the Israeli military 's claim that the occupation was " temporary " just a day earlier , before the admission from the prime minister 's office that it may very well be permanent . <p> If the meetings between top Israeli officials and President-elect Trump were n't enough to convince us , this latest development makes it obvious . Joe Biden is no longer in charge of the situation -- whether he likes it or not , apparently . US-Israel policy appears to now be fully running through Mar-a-Lago as the State Department plays catch-up and prepares for a Trump takeover . <p> When January 20 comes around , it may cap off the end of the lamest " lame duck " presidency in modern times .
