<h> New reports claim UNRWA works with terrorists , teaches hate as agency hits back at critics <p> Following numerous allegations and charges against the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) over its ties to terrorists with involvement in the Hamas terrorist massacre in Israel , the scandal-hit agency is facing new allegations of wrongdoing . <p> U.N . Watch a Geneva-based NGO , has released parts of a 150-page dossier that Executive Director Hillel Neuer told Fox News Digital shows " high-level UNRWA staff who are complicit with terrorists , who meet with them regularly . " <p> Before presenting his documentation to the world , Neuer attempted to address it directly with UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini . In a letter to Lazzarini , Neuer explained that Lazzarini 's staff have previously complained that U.N . Watch did not submit its reports to UNRWA for comment prior to publishing . Neuer then recounted several attempts to meet personally with Lazzarini to discuss U.N . Watch 's findings and explained that when it released its dossier , Lazzarini would be unable to " claim ... that we do not show you the evidence in advance . " <p> Neuer 's group then released photographs of senior UNRWA staff , including Lazzarini and former UNRWA Commissioner-General Pierre Krahenbuhl , meeting with alleged terror leaders . " You would n't find these photos on UNRWA officials ' own social media , " he said . " We found them our own ways , but they do n't post them . " <p> Neuer pointed Fox News Digital to two undated photos showing Lazzarini meeting with groups that included members of terror organizations , including the Jihadi Islamic Movement , the Islamic Ansar League , and Hamas . <p> In another photo dating back to late 2014 , multiple UNRWA regional directors met with senior Hamas member Ali Baraka . Neuer said , and reporting from Al Watan Voice confirms , that the UNRWA staff wanted to " to congratulate Baraka on Hamas ' anniversary . " <p> A terrorist from Hamas takes part in a military parade . <p> In another instance , Neuer said he was able to find a photo and transcript from a February 2017 meeting between former UNRWA chief Pierre Krahenbuhl , Baraka , members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) and Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) , and others . According to U.N . Watch , Krahenbuhl reportedly told the assembly that " we are united , and no one can separate us . " <p> In September 2024 , the U.S. Department of Justice announced " terrorism , murder conspiracy , and sanctions-evasion charges " against Baraka and five other Hamas leaders for their roles in Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , terror attack , which killed 40 Americans and over 1,000 others . <p> Krahenbuhl and his staff were investigated in 2019 for reports of " sexual misconduct , nepotism , retaliation , discrimination and other abuses of authority . " Krahenbuhl resigned from his position , but in April 2024 was named the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) . Leading congressional voices requested that Secretary of State Antony Blinken and U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Samantha Power " persuade the ICRC to reconsider this appointment " given Krahenbuhl 's " disastrous tenure " as UNRWA commissioner-general . <p> Fox News Digital asked the ICRC about the photos of Krahenbuhl posing with terror leaders , and of congressional concern about his fitness for the position in the Red Cross . An spokesperson told Fox News Digital that the ICRC " was not present in the meeting , so it can not speak to the full context of the discussion . " <p> They also stated that Krahenbuhl " has demonstrated through his work at ICRC and his decades of humanitarian experience that he has one objective : to secure aid to civilians in conflict zones . Meeting with any group that controls access to civilians , is an essential part of the ICRC work and other humanitarian organizations in conflict zones . " <p> U.N . Watch 's latest dossier also includes interviews of UNRWA students taken by local Palestinian film crews over a period of three weeks during the summer of 2024 . In one interview , a 14-year-old former student of UNRWA 's Ein Arik co-ed school said that his school taught him " ' to fight back and resist ' so that ' Palestine will be liberated and our lands will return to us by the good grace of Allah . ' " The child later explains that the solution for Jerusalem is to " kill the Jews . We get rid of the Jews . " <p> A second NGO , IMPACT-se has reported extensively on educational materials used in UNRWA schools for over two decades . In a Nov. 13 report , IMPACT-se names 12 high-ranking UNRWA principals , deputies , directors or deputy directors of training centers who held membership in either Hamas or PIJ . The report notes that nine of the 12 participated in the terror attack of Oct. 7 , with " some even serving as Nukhba operatives , " members of the special forces units of Hamas . Two of the dual UNRWA- and Hamas-member principals headed schools " under which Hamas tunnels were built . " <p> The latest IMPACT-se review complements findings from March 2023 that two UNRWA schools headed by Hamas members had " promoted violence and terrorism in self-created study material . " Now , IMPACT-se has named three additional schools where Hamas operatives served as UNRWA staff . The NGO found that these schools promoted " libels against and non-recognition of Israel " and " gratuitously inserted content promoting hatred and violence against Israel into grammar exercises . " <p> IMPACT-se found that UNRWA schools are " shamelessly flouting " UNESCO standards , which include " peace-building , respect for non-Palestinian groups , and avoiding incitement to violence . " <p> The group 's report cites intelligence claiming that " over 10% of the 510 senior employees in UNRWA 's education system in the Gaza Strip , " are members of PIJ or Hamas . UNRWA members are not allowed to be participants in terror groups designated by the U.N . Security Council . But as Neuer explained , " The U.N . terror list is one of the thinnest lists in the world , " because " Russia and China can block any designation they do n't like . " Neuer said this means " there 's virtually no Palestinian groups " on the list . <p> Fox News Digital reached out to UNRWA media officials on numerous occasions for its response to the contents of IMPACT-se 's and U.N . Watch 's dossiers , about allegations that UNRWA schools were not adhering to UNESCO standards , and about Lazzarini 's refusal to meet with Neuer . <p> UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini addresses the assembly on the opening day of the Global Refugee Forum , in Geneva . <p> Bill Deere , director of the UNRWA representative office in Washington , told Fox News Digital , " UNRWA Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini has cautioned the spread of disinformation against UNRWA , " which he says " is meant to create chaos and divert attention from the political aims to dismantle the Agency . " Reiterating the content of a statement Lazzarini shared on X in the aftermath of Neuer 's dossier being released , Deere said , " UNRWA recommends before giving oxygen to accusations like these , double-check the source and question the intent to avoid becoming an echo chamber for disinformation and de facto the fueling of hate and putting other people 's lives in danger . " <p> Addressing U.N . Watch 's interviews with UNRWA students , he said , " What they do n't tell you is these children were filmed without the knowledge or permission of their parents , " Deere said . " The kids were isolated and asked a series of leading questions designed to elicit a response . This is beyond misleading , it 's twisted and desperate . " <p> The U.S. was among numerous countries to pause support to UNRWA in January after the initial proofs emerged of members ' participation in the terror attack of Oct. 7 . Congress has halted funding to UNRWA through March 2025.
