<h> " At long last " : Biden says Assad ouster is " act of justice " in Syria <p> Alex Galbraith <p> December 8 , 2024 at 2:08 PM*2 min read <p> Joe Biden Jakub Porzycki/NurPhoto via Getty Images <p> President Joe Biden addressed the coup in Syria from the White House on Sunday , calling the removal of President Bashar al-Assad a " fundamental act of justice " and a " moment of historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria . " <p> " After 13 years of civil war in Syria , more than half a century of brutal authoritarian rule by Bashar al-Assad and his father before him , rebel forces have forced Assad to resign his office , flee the country , " he said . " At long last the Assad regime has fallen . " <p> Syrian rebels , led by the Sunni Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , took the Syrian capital of Damascus late on Saturday . Biden said that the overthrow of Assad created a " moment of risk and uncertainty " in the region and shared that he planned to support Syria 's neighbors to mitigate some risks of destabilization . <p> To that end , Biden said the U.S. conducted dozens of " precision air strikes " on camps run by the Islamic State group , in the hopes of preventing the group from taking advantage of the power vacuum in Syria . <p> " ISIS will try and take advantage of any vacuum to reestablish its credibility , and create a safe haven , " Biden said . " We will not let that happen . " <p> Biden said he 's watching the moves of HTS closely as they begin the process of establishing a new government in Syria . Members of the group have promised safety for minorities within the country , but Biden said his administration will keep a " vigilant " eye on the group that 's been deemed a terrorist organization by the U.S. State Department . <p> " Make no mistake , some of the rebel groups that took down Assad have their own grim record of terrorism and human rights abuses , " he said . " As they take on greater responsibility , we will assess not just their words , but their actions . " <p> In his speech , Biden also boasted his ongoing support of Israel in that country 's multi-front war against forces in Gaza , Lebanon and Iran . Israel captured the demilitarized territory along the border between the two countries shortly after Assad fled , claiming that the agreement between the two countries was nullified by the coup . <p> Following a wild conference championship game weekend , Dan Wetzel , Ross Dellenger , and SI 's Pat Forde hop on to discuss the outcome of the final College Football Playoff rankings . They dive in on which teams have the best path to a national title and which teams should be the most upset . <p> In winter 2025 , a comparative literature class at UCLA will feature a textbook , homework assignments , and TA resources generated by AI . The class in question is a survey of literature from the Middle Ages to the 17th century , while the materials are generated by Kudu -- an " evolved " textbook platform founded by Alexander Kusenko , a professor of physics and astronomy at UCLA . The university says this will be the first class in its humanities division with materials developed by Kudu . <p> Apple is being sued over its decision not to implement a system that would have scanned iCloud photos for child sexual abuse material ( CSAM ) . The suit describes Apple as announcing " a widely touted improved design aimed at protecting children , " then failing to " implement those designs or take any measures to detect and limit " this material . Apple first announced the system in 2021 , explaining that it would use digital signatures from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and other groups to detect known CSAM content in users ' iCloud libraries .
