<p> The memo from Biden 's chief of staff Jeff Zients , which was addressed to all White House staff , outlined the 46th president 's foreign and domestic priorities for his remaining 42-day " sprint " before President-elect Donald Trump assumes office , a copy of the memo obtained by The Post shows . <p> In addition to addressing foreign conflicts that erupted on his watch , the 82-year-old commander-in-chief is touting his $2,000 prescription drug cap for some Medicare beneficiaries as well as " more student debt cancellation for public service workers and other borrowers , " purportedly to lower costs for Americans . <p> President Biden at the Tribal Nations Summit at the Department of the Interior in Washington , DC , December 9 , 2024 . REUTERS <p> Biden has already wiped away more than $175 billion in loans for millions of student borrowers , as part of a 2020 campaign promise to eliminate their debt . <p> While some of it was blocked by federal courts , Jason Furman , the former chair of President Barack Obama 's Council of Economic Advisers , lambasted the mass debt cancellation for " pouring roughly half a trillion dollars of gasoline on the inflationary fire " that hit a 40-year high in 2022 . <p> The following year , the US Supreme Court struck down as unconstitutional a move by Biden 's Education Department to make use of a 2003 law meant for veterans of the Iraq war to eliminate $430 billion in student loans . <p> The president pivoted in late 2023 and into 2024 to using the Higher Education Act of 1965 and other federal rulemaking to have the department erase more than half a billion dollars in debt for other borrowers , including those who have been struggling to pay off their loans for more than 10 years and federal employees . <p> Nearly all of those have since been halted by lower-court rulings -- but the Biden administration could still forgive another $100 billion in loan repayments for individuals it believes have an 80% chance of defaulting by using a " predictive assessment using existing borrower data . " <p> In total , the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget projected that the incoming Trump administration could save up to $550 billion by reversing Biden 's various student debt forgiveness schemes . <p> Relatives and supporters of Israelis held hostage in Gaza since the October 7 attacks lift placards calling on the US to intervene for their release . AFP via Getty Images <p> On foreign policy , Zients said Biden remains " engaged " in talks to release Israeli and American hostages held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip -- who have been held in captivity for more than a year since the Oct. 7 , 2023 , massacre . <p> " The President is currently engaged in another push with Turkey , Egypt , Qatar , Israel , and others to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza with the hostages released , " reads the memo -- despite reports showing Trump 's transition team has added " fresh momentum " in the negotiations and already sent envoys to Israel and Qatar . <p> Biden 's support for Israel in its war against Hamas alienated some left-wing members of the Democratic coalition , who voted against their party 's nominee during their primary earlier this year and smeared him as " Genocide Joe " for refusing to stop sending munitions or agreeing to divest from the Jewish state . <p> Airmen with the 436th Aerial Port Squadron use a forklift to move 155mm ( 6-inch ) shells ultimately bound for Ukraine , April 29 , 2022 , at Dover Air Force Base , Del . AP <p> On Ukraine , Zients added that Biden will " do more " to get the country " in the best position possible " -- and that he will deliver " additional artillery rounds , air defense , and other critical capabilities . " <p> But with the fall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad 's regime last weekend , Trump has indicated that Russia 's position is weakening and President Vladimir Putin may be prepared to negotiate a peace with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky . <p> Other parts of the memo spoke about plans to issue more " high-speed internet funds to states , " pushing Senate Democrats to ram through his judicial nominees , and working with Congress to avoid a government shutdown before the year 's end . <p> " And there 's so much more we 're working on , " the Zients memo concluded . " We have announcements to come on everything from climate to conservation to AI and more . "
