<h> 2024 in Photos : How the First Months Unfolded <p> As the end of the year approaches , here is a look back at some of the major news moments of 2024 . Events covered in this essay ( the first of a three-part photo summary of the year ) include a deadly earthquake in central Japan , the relocation of the Space Shuttle Endeavour , ongoing Israeli airstrikes in Gaza , a rat hole in Chicago , and much more . Check back later this week for Parts 2 and 3 , and be sure to see our earlier " Top 25 News Photos of 2024 . " <p> To receive an email notification every time new photo stories are published , sign up here . <p> A police officer in Kyiv , Ukraine , carries a pet from the scene of a missile attack by Russian forces in a residential area on January 2 , 2024 . The attack was part of a barrage of Russian air strikes that hit Kyiv and Kharkiv , which reportedly killed five people and injured at least 135. # <p> Utility workers fix electric power lines in the aftermath of an earthquake in Suzu , Japan , on January 4 , 2024 . A series of major earthquakes killed at least 470 people , injured hundreds more , and damaged thousands of structures . The earthquakes , the biggest measuring 7.5 magnitude , hit areas around Ishikawa , Toyama , and Niigata in central Japan on January 1. # <p> Al Jazeera journalist Wael Dahdouh holds the hand of his son Hamza , who also worked for Al Jazeera and who was killed in an Israeli airstrike in Rafah , Gaza , on January 7 , 2024 . Dahdouh lost his wife , two other children , and a grandson earlier in the war and was nearly killed himself. # <p> Men lead a cow over a burning haystack as part of a ritual to seek fortune and protection for the cattle owners , marking the Hindu festival of Makar Sankranti , in Bengaluru , India , on January 15 , 2024. # <p> A woman holds her dog as it reacts while being blessed by a priest at the Cathedral San Bernardino de Siena during the ceremony commemorating the Feast of San Antonio Abad , the patron saint of domestic animals , in Xochimilco , on the outskirts of Mexico City , on January 17 , 2024. # <p> People gather to protest against the far-right Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) political party on January 21 , 2024 , in Munich , Germany . Protests against the AfD and in defense of democracy had been taking place across Germany for the previous week , following the revelation that high-ranking AfD members met with far-right extremists at a villa in Potsdam . Participants at the meeting reportedly discussed how to possibly introduce legislative measures to enable the mass expulsion of immigrants from Germany , as well as German citizens with immigrant roots and German citizens who have helped refugees. # <p> Coins are left behind by visitors at an impression in a sidewalk known as the Chicago Rat Hole , in the Roscoe Village neighborhood of Chicago , Illinois , on January 24 , 2024 . The decades-old impression in the the shape of a rat ( or squirrel ) began attracting a regular stream of visitors after a post on X garnered more than 5 million views. # <p> Bienne Terita of Australia fends off Heather Cowell of Great Britain during the 2024 Perth SVNS women 's rugby match between Australia and Great Britain at HBF Park in Perth , Australia , on January 26 , 2024. # <p> NASA 's Space Shuttle Endeavour , wrapped in protective plastic , is transported to the site of the future Samuel Oschin Air and Space Center in Los Angeles , California , on January 26 , 2024 . For its exhibition at the space center , Endeavour was placed in a launch position with its booster rockets and external tank. # <p> Police detain a man as he tries to lay flowers to pay last respects to Alexei Navalny at the monument , a large boulder from the Solovetsky Islands , where the first camp of the Gulag political prison system was established , in St. Petersburg , Russia , on February 17 , 2024 . Russian authorities said that Navalny , Russian President Vladimir Putin 's fiercest foe , who crusaded against official corruption and staged massive anti-Kremlin protests , died in prison . He was 47. # <p> A melted street lamp stands in front of a burned home in Canadian , Texas , on February 28 , 2024 . The Smokehouse Creek Fire burned more than a million acres across parts of Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle. # <p> This picture taken on March 7 , 2024 , shows the cargo ship Rubymar partly submerged off the coast of Yemen . The bulk carrier went down after a Houthi missile attack . All 24 crew members were rescued by a passing container ship. # <p> Local residents ride past a damaged building following a violent earthquake in Hualien City , Taiwan , on April 4 , 2024 . At least 18 people were killed and more than 1,100 injured by the earthquake , which damaged dozens of buildings and prompted tsunami warnings as far as Japan and the Philippines. # <p> A couple sits on Tourkovounia hill as southerly winds carry waves of Saharan dust in Athens , Greece , on April 23 , 2024 . Clouds of dust blown in from the Sahara covered Athens and other Greek cities that day , one of the worst such episodes to hit the country since 2018 , officials said. # <p> A survivor eats a meal after receiving treatment at the Naivasha Sub-county Hospital for injuries he suffered after heavy flash floods wiped out several homes when a dam burst following heavy rains in Kamuchiri Village , in Naivasha , Nakuru County , Kenya , on April 29 , 2024. #
