<h> With Syrian rebel forces rapidly advancing south toward Damascus after already taking Aleppo and Hama , the ground in Syria is shifting . <p> An anti-regime fighters stands in front of a damaged portrait of Syria 's President Bashar al-Assad spread on a government building in Hama , a day after rebels captured the Syrian central-west city , on December 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : MOHAMMED AL-RIFAI/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> The fall of Assad , an implacable foe of Israel who turned Syria into a staging ground for Iranian threats and weapons transfers to Hezbollah , is not something Israel would lament . <p> This shift is due in no small measure to the twin blows Israel dealt Hezbollah and Iran since the launch of Operation Northern Arrows in mid-September , aimed at returning displaced Israeli residents to their homes along the northern border . <p> In its war in Lebanon , Israel decapitated Hezbollah 's leadership , killed and wounded thousands of its fighters , and significantly degraded its missile and rocket capabilities . Hezbollah , which once fought in Syria to prop up the dictatorial regime of President Bashar al-Assad , is in no position to help Assad today as his regime has crumbled . <p> Nor , for that matter , is Iran , Assad 's chief backer alongside Russia . Syrian anti government fighters celebrate as they pour into the captured central-west city of Hama on December 6 , 2024. ( credit : MUHAMMAD HAJ KADOUR/AFP via Getty Images ) <h> Read the latest news and analyses on the Syrian revolution from The Jerusalem Post : <p> Iran also suffered blows at the hands of Israel -- most notably the destruction of much of its air defense network and critical missile manufacturing infrastructure during Jerusalem 's retaliatory raid on October 26 . <p> With Hezbollah severely weakened and Hamas in Gaza also no longer an effective proxy , Iran -- which has made an art form of sending others to be killed to further its own interests -- finds itself unable to provide Assad with the same level of assistance it once did . It also struggles to project the same regional power if wielded just a few months ago . <p> Assad 's other ally , Russia , whose intervention in the civil war in 2015 tipped the scales in his favor , is also unable to give Assad what it did in the past , preoccupied and overextended with its own war in Ukraine . <p> With Hezbollah , Iran , and Russia weakened -- two of them due to Israeli action -- Syrian rebels seized the opportunity to advance , launching their offensive on the same day a ceasefire was implemented in Lebanon . Hezbollah , weary and depleted , was in no position to counter the rebel advance . <h> Fall of Assad <p> The fall of Assad , an implacable foe of Israel who turned Syria into a staging ground for Iranian threats and weapons transfers to Hezbollah , is not something Israel would lament . However , the composition of the rebel forces threatening Assad 's regime is not an alliance that the Jewish state can applaud . <p> They are led by Sunni jihadists recently aligned with al-Qaeda and who remain on America 's list of terrorist organizations and also include Turkish-backed Islamists . <p> Israel has a clear interest in seeing Syria removed from Iran 's " Axis of Resistance , " ending its role as a host for Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps operatives and Iranian-sponsored militias and as a potential launchpad for attacks against Israel . <p> Syria under Assad was a crucial pillar of Hezbollah 's strength in Lebanon , serving as the main conduit for smuggling missiles and advanced weaponry into the country . If Syria is taken out of the equation , Hezbollah -- already reeling from Israel 's onslaught -- will face even greater difficulties rebuilding . <p> This would be welcome news for many in Lebanon seeking freedom from Hezbollah and Iran 's stranglehold . One significant side effect of Assad 's fall could be a chance for the Lebanese to finally regain control of their own country . <h> Developments along with complications <p> While these developments are largely positive for Israel , they come with complications . Jerusalem has no interest in seeing its neighbor to the northeast taken over by Sunni jihadists of the al-Qaeda ilk or Turkish-backed Islamists . Israel 's experience with such groups -- like Hamas in Gaza -- has been anything but encouraging . <p> What happens in Syria will most definitely have an impact on Israel in the future , which is why Jerusalem must keep a vigilant eye there , sending messages to all concerned that there are two developments it will not tolerate . The first is chemical weapons depots falling into the hands of jihadist or Islamist rebels , and the second is the mass deployment of Iranian troops into the country . <p> Those are redlines that , if crossed , would severely compromise Israel 's national security and would necessitate immediate Israeli action to prevent . <p> Beyond these redlines , however , Israel can do little to positively impact developments inside Syria , other than working behind the scenes with the US to establish channels with more moderate elements in the opposition , hoping they will emerge as a constructive force in shaping Syria 's future if and when Assad falls .
