<p> Scandar Copti 's " Happy Holidays " won top honors at the Marrakech Film Festival on Saturday , capping an emotional and politically resonant ceremony , while adding Marrakech 's ? toile d'Or to a list of accolades for the film that also includes best screenplay from Venice 's Orizzonti and best in show from the Thessaloniki Film Festival . <p> The acclaimed title also claimed a shared best actress prize for leads Manar Shehab and Wafaa Aoun . <p> Split into four chapters , the Palestinian film follows an ensemble of characters -- Arab and Jewish alike -- living in contemporary Haifa . Family secrets and domestic tensions underscore scenes from everyday life as the film traces out an expansive social circle with a novelistic attention to cultural and interpersonal dynamics . <h> Popular on Variety <p> As she accepted the award on behalf of her filmmaking partner , screenwriter Mona Copti cast her joy for the accolades against the harsher reality of the ongoing war in Gaza . <p> " How did we get here ? " she asked . " How did dehumanization become normalized ? How have killing , destruction , and martyrdom become almost acceptable ? How did we lose our moral compass and reach this point of ethical collapse ? <p> " We hope this film offers some answers to these questions by shedding light on the repercussions of indoctrination in societies and its impact on individual behavior -- particularly in communities where women remain constrained by customs and traditions that deny them personal freedom above all else . Our struggle is interconnected , and true liberation can not be achieved in isolation . None of us is truly free until all of us are . " <p> " The Cottage " producer Mercedes C ? rdova and director Silvina Schnicer <p> Indeed , nearly all the night 's speeches carried a political charge . As director Silvina Schnicer accepted the jury prize for her film " The Cottage " -- an honor the film shared with Mo Harawe 's " The Village Next to Paradise " -- the Argentine auteur decried the heavy hand of her country 's Javier Milei government , specifically when it comes to cutting cinema funding . <p> Finally , Polish drama " Under the Volcano " was the night 's other big winner , claiming the director prize for filmmaker Damian Kocur and the best actor trophy for star Roman Lutskyi . In another riveting speech -- this time delivered via video -- the actor dedicated his award to the armed forces of Ukraine . <p> For its 21st edition , the Marrakech Film Festival exceeded 40,000 attendees , marking a 5,000-admission increase from the previous year 's record , with young adults and students from Moroccan film schools in large parts accounting for the surge . Alongside its wider outreach programs , Marrakech also introduced an expanded festival hub that spread out over a half-mile , incorporating new venues while fostering a more vibrant and encompassing atmosphere . <p> Mo Harawe <p> Awards season hopefuls like Walter Salles ' " I 'm Still Here " and Gints Zilbalodis ' " Flow " screened for rapturous crowds , while Jean-Claude Barny 's political biopic " Fanon " made its world premiere -- bolstering the festival 's reputation as a continental showcase for African cinema . <p> Pursuant to those goals , the festival will double down on its Atlas Distribution Award -- a recent initiative meant to fuel wider domestic and international distribution for the Moroccan , Arab and Pan-African films presented in Marrakech. 22 titles from this year 's selection will be eligible for Atlas support , including the night 's big winner . <p> " We realized that these projects , outside of their time in festivals , were often not distributed in the Arab world or in Africa , " says festival coordinator Ali Hajji . " To ensure the viability and longevity -- both culturally and economically -- we saw the need to create a distribution system to better reach those audiences . Quite simply , we want Arab and African audiences to see these films . "
