<h> United States News <p> REFORM , Ala . ( AP ) -- A federal judge ruled that the family of former NFL player Glenn Foster Jr. , who died in law enforcement custody in Alabama , can pursue a lawsuit alleging his death was the result of excessive force . Foster , a former New Orleans Saints defensive end , died on Dec. 6 , 2021 , three days after ... <p> DEIR AL BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Israeli airstrikes in central Gaza killed at least 14 people including children Sunday , Palestinian health officials said , while the bombing of a hospital in northern Gaza wounded a half-dozen patients . Israel 's military continues its latest offensive against Hamas militants in northern Gaza , whose remaining Palestinians have been almost ... <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The sudden collapse of the Syrian government under Bashar Assad is forcing the Biden administration and the incoming Trump team to confront intensifying questions about the possibility of greater conflicts across the Middle East . President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that Assad had fled his country , which his family had ruled for decades , ... <p> PALM SPRINGS , Calif . ( AP ) -- Ten people were injured after a police traffic officer on a motorcycle crashed into bystanders at a holiday parade in Palm Springs , authorities said . All of the injured were taken to hospitals for treatment of injuries that were not life-threatening Saturday night , including the police officer , according to police . The ... <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- Police do n't know who he is , where he is , or why he did it . As the frustrating search for UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson 's killer got underway for a fifth day Sunday , investigators reckoned with a tantalizing contradiction : They have troves of evidence , but the shooter remains an enigma . One conclusion they ... <p> ALBUQUERQUE , N.M . ( AP ) -- U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt did in 1906 what Congress was unwilling to do through legislation : He used his new authority under the Antiquities Act to designate Devils Tower in Wyoming as the first national monument . Then came Antiquities Act protections for the Petrified Forest in Arizona , Chaco Canyon and the Gila ...
