<h> Opinion Why An Unstable Middle East Is A Risk For India <p> In the past dozen or so years , India has effectively transformed its " Link West " policy into an " Act West " policy . The transactional partnerships of previous decades have been replaced by a comprehensive , strategic relationship , expanding , renewing , and reigniting the intensity of exchanges at the highest levels . <p> The six countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) have clearly become a central focus , as these oil-rich nations have not only sought to enhance historic ties at the modern-day strategic level but have also adopted their own " Act East " policies , with visions extending to 2023 and even 2040 . This aligns with India 's goal of achieving a " Viksit Bharat " by 2047 . The blending of synergies and converging mutual interests has become the underlying theme of interactions . High-level committees have been established to monitor progress across all areas of individual relationships , often following the visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to many of these countries . Several of these countries have hosted him multiple times over the past decade , further strengthening a mutually beneficial partnership . <p> The UAE , with six visits , stands out and also happens to be India 's third-largest trading partner . Sheikh Zayed has visited India four times , including as the Chief Guest on Republic Day and for the G20 summit . Other leaders have shown a similar interest in India 's opportunities , as they follow their own brand of strategic autonomy in an increasingly fractured world . PM Modi has also become perhaps the first Indian leader to receive the highest honours from these nations , which is further testament to the importance they place on their relationship with India . <h> No More Shy Of Multilateral Frameworks <p> India is often criticised for lacking a strategic vision towards her extended neighbourhood , which is crucial to her own security and stability . Historically , relationships were mostly dealt with in a bilateral framework of cooperation , often with limited objectives . While this continues , recent years have seen a renewed focus on broader trilateral , quadrilateral , multilateral , sub-regional , and regional formats , such as the I2U2 ( India , USA , UAE , and Israel ) , IUSU ( India , UAE , Saudi Arabia , USA ) , India-GCC , IMEEC ( India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor ) , as well as participation in G20 and COP mechanisms , particularly those held in Egypt and the UAE . The BRICS and the SCO are other groupings in which several Middle Eastern countries have either become members or dialogue partners , further expanding the framework of cooperation with India . <p> However , the ongoing 14-month-long war in Gaza , along with escalating conflicts in Lebanon and Syria , as well as the rise of non-state actors , have raised the spectre of instability , volatility , and escalation . This will directly impact energy security , food security , economic engagement , maritime connectivity , and the welfare of 10 million Indian expatriates . <p> The region is concerned , and so is India , along with the rest of the world . The involvement of major powers appears to be at its lowest point , with their capacity to prevent wars or effectively intervene to reduce intensity or expansion scarce . <p> This may be due to short-sighted geopolitical manoeuvres . However , the costs will be high if a real escalation occurs . For New Delhi , nascent sub-regional and regional mechanisms are being adversely impacted , some even before they have fully taken off -- such as the IMEEC -- though India , the UAE , and Saudi Arabia are continuing their work and coordination . <p> In order to address various bilateral and regional projects and issues , recent engagements are noteworthy . External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is touring Qatar and Bahrain from December 6-9 for the Doha Forum and to co-chair the fourth India-Bahrain High-Level Joint Commission . Qatar has become a key player in international negotiations , notably playing a central role in ceasefire efforts between Israel and Hamas . Consequently , foreign ministers from Turkey , Iran , and Russia were expected to meet on the sidelines of the Doha Forum for urgent discussions on Syria . During his visit , Jaishankar will have an opportunity to meet his counterparts and leaders from Qatar and other countries at this critical juncture . <p> Additionally , following the visit of the External Affairs Minister , Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Abdullah Ali Al Yahya led a delegation to India from December 3-4 to discuss bilateral and regional issues . The Joint Commission has been upgraded to the ministerial level , and several Joint Working Groups will be established to address various dimensions of the comprehensive relationship . A visit by Prime Minister Modi to Kuwait is also being discussed , which could not take place earlier due to scheduling issues.Similarly , the 13th round of Foreign Office Consultations was held with Egypt on December 5 . The 13th round of the India-Oman Strategic Consultative Group ( IOSCG ) meeting also took place on December 3 in New Delhi -- both at the Secretary level . During these meetings , bilateral and regional issues were discussed in detail . India and Syria also held the 6th round of Foreign Office consultations on November 29 . <h> More Frequent Meetings <p> Earlier , during his 10th visit , Jaishankar met with his counterpart , Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan , Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of the UAE . They reviewed the entire spectrum of the comprehensive strategic partnership , and the EAM expressed satisfaction over the continued exchange of high-level visits and the exponential growth of the relationship . They also discussed regional and global issues of mutual interest , which included a deeper discussion of the evolving situation in the region . <p> In discussions with another major strategic partner , the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , talks were held during the visit of Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud , the Saudi Foreign Minister , to New Delhi on November 12-13 . During the meeting , both sides discussed avenues to strengthen the strategic partnership between India and Saudi Arabia in areas including trade , investment , energy , defence , security , culture , and consular matters . Both Foreign Ministers also exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual interest at the second ministerial meeting of the Political , Security , Social , and Cultural Committee ( PSSC ) of the India-Saudi Arabia Strategic Partnership Council ( SPC ) . Prime Minister Modi also met Iranian President Dr. Pezeshkian in Kazan on the sidelines of the BRICS Summit . He urged all sides to exercise restraint and prioritize dialogue and diplomacy , while India continued to provide humanitarian assistance . <p> The frequency of these high-level interactions in less than two months highlights the importance of regional stability and security , and India 's commitment to this cause . The Indian Navy is already in the region ensuring the security of merchant shipping and maritime routes . But the region remains a powder keg , with numerous active conflicts , hotspots , and geopolitical fault lines that could become even more dangerous unless pragmatic approaches are adopted by major powers .
