<h> Khamenei Loses Everything <p> When Hamas 's Yahya Sinwar launched Operation Al-Aqsa Flood against Israel on October 7 , 2023 , he intended to deal a decisive blow against a powerful nation-state -- and he succeeded . But the state his attack has devastated turned out not to be Israel , but Iran , his key sponsor . <p> It is a persistent folly of progressive thought to believe that wars do not achieve meaningful political consequences . The past 15 months in the Middle East suggest otherwise . After suffering terribly on October 7 , Israel has pulverized Hamas , ending the threat it posed as an organized military force . The challenge it now faces in Gaza is a humanitarian and administrative crisis , not a security one . Israel has likewise shattered Hezbollah in Lebanon , forcing it to accept a cease-fire after losing not only thousands of foot soldiers but much of its middle management and senior leadership . Meanwhile , Vladimir Putin 's brutal but botched war of conquest in Ukraine has undermined his other strategic goals . In Syria , Russia 's one solid foothold in the Middle East , the war in Ukraine has leached away Russian forces , depriving it of the ability to influence events . <p> All of this set the stage for the dramatic events of the past two weeks , as Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , a Sunni fundamentalist militia , spearheaded the seizure of Aleppo , Hama , Homs , and Damascus and brought about the overthrow and collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria . Neither Tehran nor Moscow could do anything about it . <p> The biggest loser in all of this -- after Assad , his family , his cronies , and possibly his Alawite sect -- is Iran . Decades of patient work assembling proxy movements throughout the Middle East , specifically but not exclusively focused on Israel , have collapsed . Hamas was never a cat 's paw of Tehran , but it received weapons and training from Iran , and coordinated with Hezbollah , a far more formidable force , and one much more tightly aligned with , if not always entirely controlled by , Iran . Hezbollah had helped turn the tide of battle that had flowed against the Assad regime from 2012 onwards . It kept a force of 5,000 to 10,000 men in Syria at the height of its commitment , but they were not alone . Iran organized and trained thousands more in dozens of militias , including a Syrian Hezbollah , and various Shiite groups from Iraq , Afghanistan , and Pakistan . All of them are now on the run . <p> Iran is a strong state , in the sense that its people are deeply rooted in a shared history and culture , but it has a relatively weak military . It has invested heavily in proxy warfare with notable success , including against the United States in Iraq . But with the defeats of Hamas and Hezbollah , and with the collapse of the Assad regime , Iran has suffered irrecoverable losses . It no longer has a land route to Lebanon ; it has lost its most disciplined , well-armed , and effective proxies ; and it failed in its two attempts to attack Israel directly while losing its main air defenses in a retaliatory strike . <p> Russia , too , has suffered a major loss . The Russian installations at the port of Tartus and at Hmeimim air base were built over decades ; it is hard to imagine that Russia will continue to operate from them . It has attempted to secure naval access to the port of Tobruk , in Libya , but has yet to develop the infrastructure there that it once had in Syria . Russia , like Iran , has been humiliated by its client 's collapse , and it , too , now faces an enduring hostility from a Syrian population that it helped suppress , with a savagery that foreshadowed its behavior in Ukraine . <p> If there is a winner here it is Turkey , which has supported , although not entirely controlled , HTS -- its own proxy force , the Syrian National Army , has spent more time attacking Kurdish militias in Syria 's east than fighting Assad . Still , Syria 's various groups , including the victorious HTS , know that Turkey will be the dominant external power . The victory of HTS not only presents Turkey with an opportunity to return 3 million Syrian refugees from Turkish camps but also extends Turkish influence along neo-Ottoman lines . It will be interesting to see whether Turkey takes the momentum of this victory to attack Kurdish forces in Syria and Iraq or to secure a stronger hold on Libya , where it backs the official government . In Libya , too , Turkey has pitted itself against an overextended Russia , which supports the rebellious warlord Khalifa Haftar . <p> Israel , although wary both of fundamentalists on its border and of Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's Turkey , can nonetheless be pleased at the isolation of Hezbollah and Russia 's eviction from the Levant . It has some reason to think that the rival Syrian factions will be focused on one another and their nation 's internal problems , and that they will have little appetite for attacking a state that proved considerably stronger and more resilient than it appeared on October 8 . Israel , in any case , has a long history of establishing relationships with various ethnic and religious groups in Syria and Lebanon , which effectively no longer exist as states . <p> As for the United States , it was irrelevant to most but not all of this drama . Its Kurdish allies in the east of Syria , backed by fewer than 1,000 U.S. Special Forces personnel , played a small role in this war , but continue to play a much larger one in the containment of the remnants of the Islamic State . <p> All of this presents an amazing , and amazingly complicated , set of political circumstances . But even as the fog of war hangs over Syria 's shattered cities -- we still do not know , for example , whether Bashar al-Assad got away -- some things are clear . <p> The first is that deeply unpopular authoritarian regimes tend to be far more fragile than they look . Few saw the sudden collapse of the Assad regime coming . Other authoritarian states , including Iran itself , may now become more tractable in dealing with foreign powers , and more paranoid internally . <p> The ubiquity of surprise in war is a lesson learned and relearned every few years , as is the centrality of the intangibles -- organization , planning , the will to fight , leadership -- in assessing military power . Had one studied the latest International Institute of Strategic Studies ' " Military Balance " entry on Syria , for example , one would not have guessed that a militia it estimated at 10,000 members would overthrow a military of 130,000 , backed by thousands of auxiliaries from Hezbollah and other militias , as well as 4,000 Russian troops . But so it happened . <p> Although wars may eliminate one set of problems or strategic circumstances , they usually create a new set . In this case , Iran has lost several of its claws , but others remain . After suffering a series of heavy defeats , the regime has to be terrified -- not least because , according to a recent federal indictment , it also plotted to assassinate President-Elect Donald Trump . That may cause it to seek to accommodate the United States , and there are already some hints to that effect . At the same time , Iran 's strategic exposure and vulnerability give it strong incentives to acquire nuclear weapons . <p> Finally , the United States has again been frustrated in its long-standing desire , which dates back to the Obama administration , to leave the Middle East . The Biden administration 's calls for a cease-fire in Syria were pointless and ineffectual . Along with its failure to anticipate the collapse of our Afghan allies in 2021 , and its inability to do more in Ukraine than provide enough weapons to prevent Kyiv 's defeat , it shows what happens when strategic thought withers into good intentions and wishful thinking . <p> On Saturday , Trump himself weighed in on these events . " Syria is a mess , but is not our friend , &amp; THE UNITED STATES SHOULD HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH IT , " he wrote . " THIS IS NOT OUR FIGHT . LET IT PLAY OUT . DO NOT GET INVOLVED ! " But that call to stay out of Syria ignores our military presence there , and offers no answer to the question of what to do about our Kurdish allies and their thousands of ISIS prisoners . But the incoming administration also faces a much bigger problem : If Iran does indeed choose to sprint for nuclear weapons , Trump 's White House will have to decide whether to call in the heavy bombers and forestall that move , which would trigger a landslide of nuclear proliferation well beyond the Persian Gulf . And it might face that decision very early on . <p> To paraphrase a famous aphorism , we may not be interested in the Middle East , but the Middle East is interested in us . The events of the past weeks may yet lead Trump to conclude that this is really not the best time to begin a witch hunt for wokesters in the U.S. military . And , if he is confirmed as secretary of defense , Pete Hegseth may yet learn that female pilots can drop bombs with the best of them .
