<h> Feldstein to be released to house arrest , Supreme Court rules <h> The additional suspect , a reserve IDF NCO whose identity has not been approved for publication , is set to remain in custody . <p> Eli Feldstein , an IDF spokesman attends the funeral of Yehuda Dimentman , in Homesh , in the West Bank , on December 17 , 2021 ( photo credit : SRAYA DIAMANT/FLASH90 ) <p> Eliezer Feldstein , the main suspect in the PMO leak scandal , is to be released to house arrest , but the non-commissioned officer who is the second defendant in the case will remain in custody , High Court Justice Alex Stein ruled on Monday . <p> The ruling thus partially accepted the state prosecution 's appeal against a regional court judge 's decision to release both defendants to house arrest . <p> Stein increased oversight over Feldstein 's house arrest , approving the use of an electronic tracking device , as well as granting law enforcement the right to listen to his electronic devices in order to ensure that he does not attempt to contact other people involved in the case . <p> According to the indictment , which was filed on November 21 , the NCO in April sent Feldstein a picture via the Telegram messaging app of a top-secret document , believing it to be imperative for the prime minister to receive directly . Feldstein did not immediately pass on the document . <p> At the beginning of September , he attempted to leak its contents to Israeli media , to counter mass protests that broke out after six bodies of recently executed Israeli hostages were retrieved from Gaza . Eliezer Feldstein , the central suspect in the PMO security leak affair . ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT , Via Maariv ) <h> Leaked to foreign media <p> According to the indictment , after the Israeli military censor explicitly prohibited its publication , Feldstein leaked it to a foreign media outlet.The document itself has not been published , but according to the September 6 report in the German newspaper Bild , it described Hamas 's negotiating strategy and mentioned the protests as something helping its cause . <p> Stein explained his decision to differentiate between Feldstein and the NCO regarding house arrest : Feldstein had already passed on all of the top-secret information he had obtained and therefore was not a threat to pass on additional information . <p> The NCO , however , who worked in an intelligence unit that had access to many top-secret documents , was still a threat to divulge further information , and therefore could not be released from custody .
