<p> This handout image released by the New York Police Department ( NYPD ) via X ( formerly Twitter ) on December 7 , 2024 shows the person of interest wanted for questioning in connection to the shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson on December 4 AFP photo/NYPD <p> On the morning of December 4 , Brian Thompson , the CEO of UnitedHealthcare -- the largest health insurer in the United States -- was fatally shot in New York City . The suspect has yet to be apprehended and a motive has not been established , although the words " depose " , " deny " , and " delay " were found written in permanent marker on bullet casings at the crime scene -- a potential allusion to manoeuvres by health insurance companies to avoid paying for the things they are supposed to pay for . <p> In the social media world , the tears for Thompson were few and far between , with Fox News lamenting on December 7 that a commemorative Facebook post by UnitedHealth Group -- the parent company of UnitedHealthcare -- had already racked up more than 77,000 laughing emoji reactions . Other social media users scattered witty counter-condolences across various online platforms , such as " My empathy is out of network " and " I 'm sorry , prior authorization is required for thoughts and prayers " -- a reference to another common tactic employed by UnitedHealthcare and similar firms to decline coverage and increase profit margins . <p> Advertisement <p> Meanwhile , The New York Times notes that , while authorities are pleading for help from the public in tracking down the suspected perpetrator , " some seem more interested in rooting for the gunman , " who is being " venerated as something approaching a folk hero " . <p> And yet it 's not difficult to understand why many Americans would fail to mourn the death of a man who symbolised a willfully dysfunctional , for-profit US healthcare system that is literally deadly in itself . Back in 2009 , a Harvard Medical School study found that 45,000 Americans were dying every year for lack of health insurance . This , of course , does not include the countless insured Americans who die every year because their insurance companies opt to deny them life-saving treatment . <p> But that , after all , is how capitalism works : healthcare is a business , not a right , and human lives are expendable in the interest of ensuring that obscene wealth remains concentrated in the hands of an elite minority . Americans spend far more money per capita on healthcare than their counterparts in other developed nations -- but it 's not like you get what you pay for . Often , the US healthcare experience consists of jumping through hellish bureaucratic hoops , spending a good portion of your life on hold on the telephone , and battling insurance claims denials -- if you have the energy and time to do so . <p> Indeed , there 's no denying this claim : that it 's downright sick that people who are seeking medical treatment precisely because they are ill should be put through such mental and physical agony simply to obtain care . Public anger at the system is , therefore , absolutely logical -- you might even call it a preexisting condition . <p> Advertisement <p> Of all the predatory firms that comprise the multitrillion-dollar US healthcare industry , UnitedHealthcare has a particularly vampiric reputation for charging huge premiums while pathologically denying claims left and right . As per The Associated Press news agency , UnitedHealthcare raked in $281bn in 2023 , while Thompson himself enjoyed a $10.2m annual pay package . <p> This financial context is key when considering , for example , the recent case of a chronically ill college student in the US who was reportedly slammed with $800,000 in medical bills when UnitedHealthcare denied him coverage for the drugs his doctors had prescribed . Or consider the untold number of folks whose claims denials have ultimately constituted death sentences -- and all to sustain those billions in revenue and Thompson 's annual pay package . <p> I personally have no health insurance policy , which is part of the reason I avoid the US like the plague despite it being my birthplace . I do , however , have some personal experience with UnitedHealthcare , which was my father 's insurer at the time of his death last year of prostate cancer in Washington , DC . <p> My dad was enrolled in the government-funded Medicare Advantage programme for seniors , which allows private firms like UnitedHealthcare to overbill the government for its services while skimping on providing needed care to the country 's elderly . Denied insurance coverage for the prostate cancer drug Xtandi -- which , to add insult to injury , was developed with US taxpayer money -- my father was forced to seek foundational financial support in order to acquire the medication . Had he not succeeded , he would have been billed no less than $14,579.01 for a one-month supply , ie , more than the average annual income in some countries . <p> Advertisement <p> Obviously , Brian Thompson is not personally responsible for the terminally ill state of society in the US -- a country that managed to spend $916bn on its military in 2023 alone and that continues to fund Israel 's genocide in the Gaza Strip to the tune of tens of billions of dollars , all while poverty remains a leading cause of death among Americans . <p> But the man was in fact emblematic of the lethal inequality that underpins US corporatocracy , where the health insurance racket does its part to keep people so sick and debt-ridden that they ca n't pose a challenge to the system . And that , at the end of the day , is why the gunman is being " venerated as something approaching a folk hero " . <p> The New York Times quotes Alex Goldenberg , a senior adviser at a research institute that tracks online threats , on the perceived " lionization of the shooter " and the implications of Thompson 's killing : " It 's being framed as some opening blow in a broader class war , which is very concerning as it heightens the threat environment for similar actors to engage in similar acts of violence . " <p> But there is already a class war raging in the US , and the healthcare system is one of its most violent fronts . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
