<p> Sonnenfeld is the Lester Crown Professor of Leadership Practice and President of the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute . He has been an informal advisor to five U.S. Presidents and assisted Jared Kushner in the 2019 Peace through Prosperity conference in Bahrain , which outlined the Abraham Accords and a global investment fund to lift the Palestinian and neighboring Arab state economies , and fund a $5 billion transportation corridor to connect the West Bank and Gaza . <p> Herbst is a former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine and Uzbekistan and Senior Director of the Atlantic Council 's Eurasia Center . He served for 31 years as a foreign service officer in the U.S. State Department . He worked to enhance U.S.-Ukrainian relations and helped ensure the conduct of a fair Ukrainian presidential election and prevent violence during the Ukrainian revolution . <p> Hormats , former U.S. Undersecretary of State , has been a senior official in the administration of five American presidents across political parties . He also served as Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs International and Vice Chair of Kissinger Associates , and is now managing director at Tiedemann Advisors . He was a top-level envoy with Henry Kissinger during the shuttle diplomacy in the Mideast with frequent negotiations with Syria 's Assad regime . <p> Henriques is a senior research fellow at the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute and a former consultant to McKinsey &amp; Co with expertise in the Aerospace &amp; Defense industry . <p> Vladmir Putin is running out of time with his crumbling economy and overstretched , faltering army trying to advance his ill-advised invasion of Ukraine , while attempting to suppress pro-democracy activists in several nations around his intended sphere of influence . Now , almost three years into his big invasion of Ukraine that was supposed to be won in three days , he has been counting on the return of Donald Trump to the White House to undermine allied support for Ukraine . It need not happen that way . <p> The next 50 days provide a historic opportunity for the assertion of national independence from Putin 's control in several Eastern European lands . In 1946 , the revered U.S. diplomat George Kennan prophetically warned of a " Domino Theory " of nations around Russian falling into a larger Soviet Union . Now , we may be on the brink of seeing a reverse domino effect , as we did in the 1990s when nations broke away from Russia . <p> As the Syrian rebel force , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , swept through Aleppo and then Damascus in a matter of hours , toppling the 60-year reign of the Al-Assad family dynasty , cheers and chants are echoing throughout the streets of the capital celebrating the downfall of an authoritarian regime long-supported by Russia and Iran . Both countries have used Syria as a strategic regional outpost in service of their commercial and military interests . <p> However , the vast resources Russia and Iran once held have either been destroyed and committed to other failing conquests . In fact , it is the collapse of support from Russia , Iran , and Hezbollah that contributed to the surprise sweep of Syria as the demoralized military under President Bashar Al-Assad 's strict control reportedly did nothing to resist rebel forces . What happens in Syria next is unclear , but the U.S. should certainly be working with Turkey to stabilize the situation while closely coordinating with all parties in the anti-Assad coalition . <p> Some 700 miles to the north , the shouts of protesters and pops from their fireworks can be heard in the streets of Tbilisi , Georgia , where demonstrators continue their weeks-long call for an end to the pro-Russian ruling party in parliament and entry into the European Union . The exiled opposition leader from Belarus , Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya , has called on her comrades to ignore the farcical presidential " elections " in January -- in peaceful protest -- that will hand the Russian-backed President Alexander Lukashenko a seventh term . <p> The house of cards that Vladimir Putin has so carefully stacked over more than two decades is folding before our eyes . Not only are his satellite states rejecting Kremlin influence , but the Russian economy is crumbling , lurching towards severe stagflation . <p> Moreover , defense spending has reached 8% of GDP , a post-Cold-War high , exacerbating Russia 's fiscal health . The National Wealth Fund , used as a " rainy day fund " to supplement heightened wartime expenses , will be depleted by early 2025 . What happens once the reserves are spent remains a question , as current federal " borrowing does n't provide the funds needed to cover budget deficit , " according to a report by Vladimir Milo of the Free Russia Foundation . <p> The desperate situation has forced Elvira Nabiullina , governor of the Russian central bank , to hike interest rates up to an astounding 21% , with trader estimates expecting a rate of 25% by the year 's end . Such economic tumult has produced an unusual internal power struggle in Moscow over the direction of monetary policy . Russian oligarchs have begun to express their dissatisfaction with Nabiullina 's monetary tightening campaign . Most notably , in a rare public speech , Sergei Chemezov , CEO of Rostec and a close ally of Putin , complained to parliament , " All profits are eaten up by the interest that we have to pay ... If we continue to work like this , most companies will go bankrupt . " <p> The combination of these domestic economic pressures and the international challenges in Syria , Georgia , and Belarus are reminiscent of another era all too familiar to those in the Kremlin . It was , after all , economic stagnation and military overextension that spurred the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . The slow decline of USSR leader Mikhail Gorbachev began in a similar manner to today , with satellite states revolting against Russian Communist rule . Lech Walesa led Poland on a path to oust their Communist president , General Wojciech Jaruzelski , and install a democratic system of government . Soon after , Hungary , East Germany , Romania , and other states declared their independence . <p> An unraveling of George Kennan 's Domino Theory -- which rightly feared one country would fall after another into Communism in the aftermath of World War II -- in the famed " LongTelegram " took effect . But it was the failure of Gorbachev 's perestroika , or economic restructuring , that led to his ultimate demise . We are , again , seeing the reverse domino effect with nations again breaking away from Russia rather than falling towards it as feared in the 1950s . <p> Now , as Putin 's modestly rebuilt union of misfits could very well face its demise , President-elect Trump and his team would be wise to remember these lessons from history . Representative Mike Waltz , Trump 's nominee for national security adviser , has outlined the incoming administration 's sentiment recently stating , " The question through this presidential transition and into Trump 's second term is , how do we drive the Russia-Ukraine deal ? " <p> An end to Moscow 's aggression in Ukraine will only come via negotiations . When those negotiations begin and under what pretenses will shape the outcome . The path chosen will be the most important factor in determining not only Putin 's and Ukraine 's future but also the state of U.S. global leadership . <p> A sober approach starts by recognizing Putin 's aim remains full political control of Ukraine . Putin believes he can win this war by outwaiting the west . That strategy worked for him in 2008 with Georgia and in 2014 with his seizure of Crimea , and he is now encouraged to see growing impatience among western countries towards the cost of aid to Ukraine . <p> To have any chance of bringing Putin to the negotiating table , the U.S. and its allies must strengthen Ukraine 's position on the battlefield . If the new Trump Administration cuts aid to Ukraine , it must find other ways to keep U.S. weapons flowing . Finally convincing G7 partners that Ukraine can legally use the nearly $300 billion in frozen Russian state assets for defense and economic purposes is one option . Another option would see the U.S. provide Ukraine a loan secured by their vast deposits of rare earth and other valuable minerals . <p> Trump recognizes the logic of peace through strength . He should dismiss the timid policy of the outgoing administration and send more advanced weaponry to Ukraine , such as the Tomahawks that a then-President Trump used effectively against Syria . If Kyiv not only stops all Russian gains but also begins taking back territory , Putin would finally have an incentive to consider a real peace agreement , and not a temporary ceasefire . <p> An economic element also exists in pushing Putin to the negotiating table . Top of mind for the President-elect is to greatly increase U.S. production , and export , of oil and natural gas . The surge in supply would push the prices of Russia 's hydrocarbon exports -- the chief source of funding Kremlin aggression -- further down . Additionally , stronger enforcement of existing sanctions and the introduction of tariffs on Russian goods , in addition to the goods of its backers -- weakening Putin 's grip on power and the Russian economy . <p> An alternative approach would be the simple wind down of U.S. engagement . This na ? ve notion , backed by some supporters of the incoming administration , would reduce U.S. involvement in the war to a minimum , forcing Europe to provide all remaining support , a near impossible feat . Sanctions would remain for symbolism but be more leniently enforced . Any new assistance to Ukraine would be inconsequential . As a result , Putin would be emboldened to press for more gains on the battlefield -- with a high likelihood of success . However , the ramifications would be even broader . U.S. retreat would implicitly greenlight future aggression by Putin or other bad actors , such as Iran or North Korea . It is a defeatist policy . <p> Only a policy of peace through strength , recognizing that Putin considers the U.S. his principal adversary , will provide the U.S. and its allies the greatest leverage and minimize the chance of adverse outcomes , especially the use of nuclear weapons . While each choice brings with it considerable consequences -- namely financial burdens , inventory drawdowns on critical weapons and munitions , escalation on and off the battlefield , and shifts in geopolitical power and influence -- the current situations in Russia can not be ignored . Ukraine may be strained , but Russia is edging the precipice of disaster . <p> Russia is at a classic " tipping point " in its long , admirable history , as Putin desperately hangs on in hope that Trump will wind down U.S. engagement and permit Russia to seize Ukraine in stages . Putin 's fate may very well be in the hands of Trump but so too are critical American interests as well as those of its allies and Ukraine . Putin 's hopes for Trump may well be disappointed . The president-elect has said Ukraine 's survival is important to the U.S. He , therefore , does not want to broker a peace deal that only imposes conditions on the victim and allows the aggressor to come back for the rest of Ukraine . Brokering an enduring peace is the road to a Nobel Prize . A weak ceasefire that enables Putin to take all of Ukraine would be a notably greater U.S. national security defeat , even greater than the disaster of Biden 's Afghanistan withdrawal . <p> A U.S. exit imposing an appeasement plan would be the equivalent to Neville Chamberlain handing Hitler the Sudetenland -- which , of course , only fueled that tyrant 's territorial ambitions . The good news for Ukraine is that Trump likes to negotiate a favorable deal , and Russia is growing weaker by the day . <p> In just a few days last week , the loose coalition of resistance fighters ended a cruel tyrannical dynastic rein in Syria as Russia and Iran were too distracted to bring air cover to their ally , the despotic President al-Assad . If Syrians could seize this moment , perhaps so too can Eastern Europeans as they themselves did in rapid succession during the 1990s.
