<p> Scarborough , 81 , announced last month that he 's leaving the anchor desk after more than 50 years Thursday ( Dec. 12 ) . <p> Now News 4 New York has named the anchor filling his spot . <p> David Ushery , another staple of New York broadcasting , is joining the 6 p.m. newscast . <p> He will co-anchor with Bergen County 's Natalie Pasquarella . She already co-anchors the 4 p.m. and 11 p.m. hours with Ushery , who has been at the news network for more than 20 years . <p> Scarborough casually dropped the news on Monday 's broadcast after Ushery introduced a segment paying tribute to the retiring anchor . <p> " Sharing a desk with you , Chuck , has been the privilege of my life , such an honor , " Pasquarella said . <p> " Well , the feeling 's mutual , " Scarborough said . " And I 'm leaving you in very good hands here with David . David is taking over at 6 . You know , David is a triple threat , you 've got to watch him : great writer , great reporter and fantastic anchor , so you 're in very good hands . " <p> Ushery , 57 , said there have been jokes about the transition behind the scenes . <p> " There 's been a lot of dark humor about me measuring the drapes in Chuck 's office , moving some furniture in , offer to drive him off the last day ... none of that is true , " he said . " Chuck , let me say this . You and I both walked into a newsroom today that was fully engaged on two major stories . Obviously the arrest in the CEO killing and the verdict in the subway chokehold ( trial ) . So our colleagues are supportive of this moment , but they were busy up in the newsroom and Chuck and I would n't have it any other way . " <p> " Chuck Scarborough walked into this building today the same way he walked in 50 years ago , " Ushery said . " And that is to say curious about the story , worried about the tone of the story , worried about the facts in the story , worried about the storytelling ... and that means you leave me and all of us the responsibility to keep doing that . " <p> Ushery grew up in Bloomfield , Connecticut and is an alum of the University of Connecticut . <p> He started working in broadcast journalism at at WFSB-TV in Hartford , but he 's been a TV host for much longer . <p> Chuck Scarborough , seen here with co-anchors Natalie Pasquarella and David Ushery during Monday night 's broadcast , leaves the anchor desk Thursday after more than 50 years at NBC.NBC 4 New York <p> When Ushery was just 11 years old , he became the host of the Connecticut-area syndicated show " Kidsworld , " where he interviewed broadcast legend Walter Cronkite . It was a gig Ushery held until he was 18 . <p> Ushery joined WABC-TV as a reporter and became an anchor , spending a decade there before joining WNBC in 2003 . <p> " In a time when the media industry is evolving on a near-daily basis , our responsibility as local journalists will never change : to verify the facts , to ask the tough questions and to deliver the news in a clear , honest and transparent manner worthy of our viewers trust , " Ushery said in a statement Monday . " That is exactly what we do at WNBC and for more than 20 years , I have been privileged to work alongside some of the finest journalists in our business right here at 30 Rock . I look forward to continuing this important mission every weeknight at 6 p.m. with my colleagues and friends Natalie Pasquarella , Janice Huff and Bruce Beck . " <p> He remained in the NBC 4 news studio during the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic , and accepted the Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Award in 2021 , for the station 's coverage of the health crisis . <p> Ushery received two National Edward R. Murrow Awards for his coverage of Hurricane Sandy and coverage of the December 2019 shooting at the Jersey City kosher market . He also received a National Emmy for his work on Sandy . <p> In 2019 , he profiled 9/11 responder Michael Dorian , who was diagnosed with cancer and had to fight for his health benefits . The story won a New York Emmy . <p> Ushery 's work at NBC has taken him across the country and globe to places including Gaza , Jerusalem , the West Bank , France , England and Italy . Ushery has also moderated mayoral and gubernatorial debates . <p> After the murder of George Floyd , he examined the relationships between police and communities of color . Other major news events he 's covered include the Sandy Hook school shooting in 2012 and the " Miracle on the Hudson " landing of US Airways Flight 1549 in 2009 . <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy .
