<p> Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis , criticism , and advice out there , delivered to your inbox daily . <p> Pope Francis has had quite a notable month . Last week , the Vatican announced that Mercedes-Benz had given him a fully electric Popemobile , as part of the Vatican 's goal to make all of its vehicles zero emissions by 2030 . And on Saturday , Francis unveiled two Nativity scenes for the holidays : one , in St. Peter 's Square , imagined with Italian fisherman 's huts ; and another , in a Vatican audience hall , depicting the Christ child in a cradle made from a kaffiyeh . <p> " Enough with wars , enough of violence , " the pope said during the unveiling , which was attended by Palestinian ambassadors to the Vatican . The scene had been crafted by two artists from Bethlehem , the birthplace of Jesus Christ , which is today a Muslim-majority city in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . <p> Francis has n't been silent about Israel 's war in Gaza ; in November , he called for an investigation into whether Israel was committing genocide . But the display of the kaffiyeh , a symbol of Palestinian national identity , was perhaps the clearest message he has yet sent about his sympathies for the Palestinian people . <p> The pope is about to turn 88 , and it seems he may -- as he ponders his legacy -- be caring a bit less about what his critics think . For progressive Catholics , the week in Vatican news was promising . <p> But the most promising piece of news for these Catholics was neither the Popemobile nor the kaffiyeh , nor even his plea for the U.S. to stop executing prisoners , but a recent hiring spree . <p> In a ceremony on Saturday , Francis formally welcomed 21 new cardinals into the church 's top leadership rank . It was the 10th time in 12 years that he has elevated another crop of cardinals , which means he has named 110 of the 140 men currently eligible to vote for the next pope . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In doing so , he has all but guaranteed that his successor will not be a conservative Italian looking to restore the church 's medieval character ; the cardinals who will vote at the next conclave come from all over the world and have very different approaches to engaging with modern society . A couple of the new cardinals have even refused the cardinals ' signature red vestments -- choosing , in Francis ' model , to wear modest clothes as a symbol of humility . <p> Advertisement <p> Popes tend to appoint cardinals they see as allies ; it 's not unusual to staff the College of Cardinals with ideologically aligned clerics . But Francis , who is from Argentina , has done it at such a rate that it seems he 's determined to remake the church into a less European institution . According to the National Catholic Reporter , Francis has elevated cardinals from almost 30 countries that had never before been represented in the college . <p> A new Brazilian cardinal told reporters on Saturday that the cardinals must advance " a church that is closer to the people , a church that is simpler , a poorer church . " A couple of days before that , the recently elevated Ukrainian Greek Catholic cardinal living in Australia promised to advocate for Ukraine and stressed that Russia " should be punished . " A new British cardinal is famous for challenging the church to embrace LGBTQ+ acceptance and more rights for women in the church ; he told reporters that " all the church offers is love . " <p> There have been plenty of moments when progressive Catholics have been disappointed by Francis ' leadership , including when he was defensive about a Chilean bishop accused of sexual abuse . Or when his much-hyped and multiyear Synod of Bishops ( basically , a large leadership meeting ) concluded without any radical changes on the matter of female leadership or LGBTQ+ Catholics ' rights . Or when the Vatican declared that " sex changes " and " gender theory " were threats to society . Or when Francis -- while cautioning against admitting gay men into the priesthood -- allegedly used a homophobic slur , twice . ( Francis ' defenders have argued that because he was not speaking in his native language , he had made a genuine mistake . " The Pope never intended to offend or express himself in homophobic terms , " the Vatican said , in a rare apology . Critics noted that the original argument was itself still homophobic . ) <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> But Francis ' controversies have more often stemmed from his efforts to shake up the centuries-old institution . In 2013 he famously asked " Who am I to judge ? " regarding a gay priest . Last year , he allowed priests to bless people in same-sex relationships . He has said transgender people can be godparents and witnesses at church weddings ; he has washed the feet of Muslim and Christian prisoners . He is so widely reviled by radical traditionalist Catholics that some conservative Catholic groups have launched a multiday event to pray for the pope 's " conversion . " <p> If Francis fails to live up to his own ambitions for his papacy , he may hope that his successor , picked by his allies , can be even bolder . On Saturday , Francis elevated the first cardinal of Palestinian origin . The cardinal , who is based in Chile , has promised to push for peace in Gaza .
