<p> In a shocking development last week , Amnesty International effectively exonerated Israel of genocide . <p> This was easy to miss , and not just because of the recent crush of news . Amnesty 's report , titled " ' You Feel Like You Are Subhuman ' : Israel 's Genocide Against Palestinians in Gaza , " buried the lede , as journalists say . And most of the media coverage reflected that . <p> The New York Times ' headline read : " Amnesty International Accuses Israel of Genocide in Gaza . " The Los Angeles Times ' was similar : " Amnesty International says Israel is committing genocide in Gaza . " <p> As public opinion of Donald Trump , climate change and more show , the press is not as important as journalists and their detractors claim , especially now . <p> Dec. 3 , 2024 <p> Before I get to Amnesty 's overlooked acquittal of Israel , it 's worth noting that calling its report unfair would be a profound understatement . Here 's the first sentence : " On 7 October 2023 , Israel embarked on a military offensive on the occupied Gaza Strip ... of unprecedented magnitude , scale and duration . " <p> In other words , the story of the Israel-Hamas war , as far as the storied human rights group is concerned , begins not with Hamas ' unprecedented terrorist attack on civilians that day , which included killings , rapes , kidnappings and other forms of staggering , premeditated barbarity . Rather , it begins with the Israeli response to the aggression of Hamas , an organization that was literally founded on the principle of genocidal eradication of Israel . <p> This is a bit like beginning a report on America 's " genocide " in Japan by stating , " On April 18 , 1942 , the United States embarked on a military offensive on the Japanese nation of unprecedented magnitude ... " -- leaving out , until some 50 pages later , that whole Pearl Harbor thing . <p> In theory , Trump could solidify and build on his winning coalition , but that would require disappointing the people insisting he has a mandate to do whatever he wants . <p> Nov. 12 , 2024 <p> None of this is to say that the Israel-Hamas war has n't been horrific . Nor is it to say that Israel deserves no criticism for its conduct of the war -- even if I think most of the criticisms are exaggerated , often for ideological reasons . <p> But the Genocide Convention of 1948 is very clear about what constitutes actual or attempted genocide : " acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group . " <p> The idea that Israel is dedicated to genocide of the Palestinians has been routinely bandied about for decades at the United Nations and by anti-Israel governments and organizations . But the Palestinian population has grown more than eightfold since Israel 's founding , according to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics , and the population of the Gaza Strip has increased 600% since 1960 . <p> Advertisement <p> One of the most important words in the U.N . ' s definition of genocide is " intent . " And if Israel , which even its enemies characterize as supremely competent and lethal , intends genocide , it 's really , really , bad at it . Indeed , if genocide were the goal , you would think Israel would stop warning civilians to evacuate areas it 's about to attack and sending Palestinians caravans of aid . <p> Which brings us back to Amnesty International 's exoneration . On page 101 of its 296-page report , the authors acknowledge that the question of intent is a huge problem for those who accuse Israel of genocide . But they go on to reject " an overly cramped interpretation of international jurisprudence ... that would effectively preclude a finding of genocide in the context of an armed conflict . " <p> If Israel were actually trying to eliminate the Palestinians as a people , I think it would be obvious and easy for Amnesty and others to prove . But the point is that the report essentially concedes that Israel is n't committing genocide under prevailing interpretations of international law . <p> Imagine if a prosecutor noted during a murder trial that under the existing statutes and case law , the defendant was not guilty . That might be considered an important concession . <p> As Commentary 's Seth Mandel writes , " So Amnesty International dissents from international law . That 's fine . Just be up-front about it : Amnesty is not accusing Israel of ' genocide , ' it is accusing Israel of a different crime which Amnesty has named ' genocide , ' just so it could use that word . " <p> It would be one thing if Amnesty issued a report calling for a more capacious definition of genocide under international law . I 'd be open to such a recommendation . The existing definition still has the taint of the Soviet Union 's meddling to ensure it did n't cover its crimes in Ukraine . A better , fairer definition of genocide would n't be bad news for Israel , but it would for Russia and China . <p> Advertisement <p> Amnesty did n't want a discussion about the proper definition of genocide , though . It wanted headlines alleging that Israel committed the crime -- and it got them . <p> Jonah Goldberg is editor in chief of the Dispatch and has been a Los Angeles Times Opinion columnist since 2005 . He holds the Asness Chair in Applied Liberty at the American Enterprise Institute . He was previously senior editor at National Review and lives in Washington , D.C.
