<p> The saga of my Jewish conversion began twenty-five years ago , when I got engaged to my first husband . He 'd grown up in an Orthodox family , and his parents , my future in-laws , were devastated that he was marrying a non-Jew ; under religious law , a child is born a Jew only if the mother is Jewish , so any kids we had would not technically be Jewish , either . An Orthodox rabbi pleaded with my fianc ? one night not to marry me , then vomited all over the sidewalk -- possibly from too much alcohol , but the point was vividly made . I remember feeling elated to realize that I could solve the problem by converting . It turned out not to be so simple . For decades , through our marriage and divorce and my subsequent remarriage , I lived like a Jew without becoming one . At home , my family lit candles and said blessings on Shabbat . I shook a lulav and etrog on Sukkot , taught my children when to make noise during the Megillah reading on Purim , and learned enough Hebrew to read and sing at the Passover Seder . It was n't until a Yom Kippur sermon last year -- and , two weeks later , the events of October 7th -- that I decided to finally follow through . <p> I was raised in a Korean American evangelical church , where people spoke in tongues as the Holy Spirit moved them . My Bible teacher referred to me as " devil 's spawn " because I had a habit of picking arguments with Scripture . ( Eve 's lust for knowledge was n't sinful , I remember declaring ; God 's curse on humankind was an overreaction . ) By the time I reached adulthood , I 'd developed an emphatically rationalist world view , which for a while I thought precluded religion . But I knew the first books of the Old Testament cold , and I still sometimes prayed to God . I also nurtured a nascent affinity for Judaism , born of both disposition and circumstance . My father , a physician , did his medical residency at Brooklyn Jewish Hospital , where his department chief was an Orthodox Jew , and he 'd occasionally serve as a " Shabbos goy , " turning on lights for the religious doctor on the Sabbath . Like many devout Christians , my mother was fascinated with Israel , and she visited the country often . <p> My first husband , Noah , did n't ask me to convert -- Jewish law stipulates that a conversion must not be done merely to accede to another 's wishes -- but through him I absorbed Jewish rituals and tradition . The Talmud , with its rabbinic legal codes and commentaries , its reams of debates and interpretive disagreements , provided a heady way into learning a new religion . I took a course in law school taught by an esteemed Jewish-law scholar , Hanina Ben-Menahem , who was known for arguing that , compared with Western legal thought , the Talmud allows judges a degree of discretion to deviate from the letter of the law in order to honor its spirit . Exploring the tradition 's built-in disputation -- reasoned differences touching on every conceivable subject -- I felt that I might have a home in Judaism . <p> The only conversion that would have been legitimate in my in-laws ' community , though , was an Orthodox one , and Orthodox rabbis typically required prospective converts to demonstrate their commitment to a strictly religious life . This would entail following hundreds of mitzvot , or commandments , including extensive kosher dietary laws , prohibitions of work and travel on the Sabbath , and many more obscure rules , such as eschewing garments that contain both linen and wool . It did n't seem plausible for me to promise to maintain such a life style , in part because Noah had let go of rigorous observance . Converting under the more lenient Conservative or Reform denominations felt more within reach , but I feared that pursuing a non-Orthodox conversion would amount to thumbing my nose at my in-laws ' standards . <p> If I 'm honest , though , my biggest barrier to conversion back then was a youthful allergy to the message that I could gain acceptance only by adopting a new identity . My parents and grandparents had fled their home in North Korea during the Korean War to avoid being killed ; I was born in Seoul and immigrated with my family to the United States when I was six . The tragic history of my native country was in constant dialogue in my head with the story of the Jewish people , and I knew that Korean and Jewish identities could be compatible . But the Orthodox community at the time did n't make it easy to feel that the two could coexist . While I was considering conversion , Noah and I went to a class reunion of the Modern Orthodox high school that he 'd attended . Afterward , when the school 's alumni newsletter came in the mail , with a group photo from the reunion , Noah noticed that he and I -- the only Asian person there -- were missing from the picture , though we both recalled posing for it . ( The photographer told Noah , who wrote about the incident years ago , that he had taken some pictures that cut off one side of the group but had n't selected the final photo . ) <p> As a young immigrant with a fair measure of pride , I recoiled intuitively at such signals that my presence was shameful -- a shanda , as Jews would say . I allowed those feelings to stymie my pursuit of what I wanted for myself , which was Judaism . <p> In 2023 , on Yom Kippur , the Jewish day of atonement , my friend Rabbi Angela Warnick Buchdahl of Central Synagogue , a Reform congregation in New York City , gave a sermon focussed on atoning for the " sin of passing judgment , " and in particular judgment of intermarriage . Buchdahl has a Jewish American father and a Korean Buddhist mother . I 've known her since we attended college together , in the nineteen-nineties , when she already seemed poised to become the first East Asian American Jew ordained as a rabbi . She reached that milestone in 2001 , and has built a robust following within her congregation and beyond . She is fifty-two years old , with pixie-cut brown hair that frames the light freckles on her heart-shaped face , and a rich alto singing voice . When Buchdahl travels , even Orthodox Jews stop her to share that they watch her services , saying , " Do n't tell my rabbi ! " I live-streamed her Yom Kippur sermon from my home in Cambridge , along with people in roughly a hundred countries . <p> Buchdahl drew a contrast between the Bible 's Ezra , who promoted the idea of a Jewish " holy seed , " and Ruth , a Biblical model of conversion . A Gentile by birth , Ruth married an Israelite and , when she was later widowed , told her mother-in-law , Naomi , " Wherever you go , I will go . Wherever you stay , I will stay . Your people are my people , your God , my God . " Ruth became the great-grandmother of King David , an ancestor of the future Jewish Messiah . As Buchdahl later put it to me , " We 've been a mixed multitude all along . " Plus , in her experience -- contra fears about conversion " diluting " Judaism -- those who join the faith often " make their Jewish spouses more Jewish . " Buchdahl invoked Rabbi Alexander Schindler , a former leader of the American Reform movement , who made the front page of the Times in 1978 , when he pressed Jews to seek converts . Proselytizing is often understood to be anathema to Judaism , but Buchdahl told congregants , " Throughout Jewish history , you should know , whenever Jews felt safe , we sought new adherents . This moment in America should be such a time . " <p> Two weeks later came October 7th . Hamas invaded Israel , massacring some twelve hundred people and kidnapping two hundred and fifty more . Israel , in turn , launched a devastating war in Gaza that has killed approximately forty-five thousand people . Around the world , anti-Israel protests erupted , and antisemitism spiked ; many Jews faced a fresh reckoning with the relationship between Israel and Jewish identity . It was a time of fear and dread and painful fractures within the Jewish community -- it was no longer , as Buchdahl had suggested , a moment when Jews widely felt at ease . Yet rabbis from a broad range of Jewish institutions observed something they had n't anticipated : a surge of interest in Judaism . Elliot Cosgrove , a Conservative rabbi and the author of the new book " For Such a Time as This : On Being Jewish Today , " told me that since October 7th he 's seen engagement from " within and beyond the boundaries of the conventional Jewish community " at a level he 's never before witnessed . This has included increased synagogue membership , expanded enrollment in Hebrew-school programs , full houses at Shabbat services -- and oversubscribed courses for people interested in becoming Jewish . Suddenly , my own halting path to conversion was meeting a larger movement . <p> At Central Synagogue , another rabbi , Lisa Rubin , runs the Center for Exploring Judaism , which educates and guides Jewish-curious newcomers . Since October 7th , the program 's courses have enrolled double the usual number of students and accrued a seven-month waiting list . Rubin told me that she has warned potential converts that " this is not a great time to be stepping into Judaism . " Still , as she put it , " They 're running toward the house on fire . " <p> Judaism is not only a faith but a tribe , a culture , and a life style , and the motivations behind conversion are as varied as Jewishness itself . I spoke to converts who had always suspected that they had Jewish ancestry . Deb Kroll , a woman in her early seventies , grew up in the Bible Belt with parents who became Pentecostal leaders , but when she was a child her Christian grandmother told stories of her family fleeing at night from a county where the Ku Klux Klan was active , soon after the lynching of Leo Frank . Kroll remembers thinking , I 'm a little Jewish girl who 's been born into the wrong family . For most of her life , she did n't realize that it was even possible to convert to Judaism . Then , in recent years , Kroll said , DNA testing of relatives suggested that she had significant Jewish ancestry on both sides . She was studying in Rubin 's program online from her home , in Georgia , when the events of October 7th occurred . " I thought , Well , I 'm not going to stop my Jewish journey out of fear , " she recalled , adding , " I throw in my lot with the Jewish people . " <p> Another graduate of Rubin 's course , Keve Bates , is a thirtysomething Midwesterner . He comes from a long line of Methodist ministers on his father 's side ; his mother 's parents were Christians , too , but they had surnames -- Goldman and Kirsch -- often associated with American Jews . Though his family members insisted that they had no Jewish past , Bates became interested in learning about Judaism . He eventually moved to New York , where he took Rubin 's class and considered converting . Although he is , by his own description , " a person who has a problem starting things and not completing them , " the aftermath of October 7th spurred him to go through with it . Friends invited him to anti-Israel protests , but he did n't attend . One day , he was near the American Museum of Natural History when a protest march filled the street . He overheard a fellow-observer say , " It 's like 1933 all over again " and felt an uneasiness that he could n't shake . Bates did n't want to be " on the side , hiding in plain sight , " he told me . " I wanted to belong . " <p> A number of converts I spoke to had , like me , been with a Jewish partner for years without becoming Jewish themselves . Several said that they 'd been planning to convert since before October 7th but now felt an increased sense of urgency . Leo Spychala , a forty-three-year-old graduate of Rubin 's class who grew up gay and Catholic in New Jersey , said that he 'd always felt an affinity for Judaism but that his impression from popular culture was that " it 's almost like you would n't be welcome " ; he recalled an episode of " Sex and the City " in which the Waspy Charlotte , embracing Judaism after her boyfriend says that he ca n't wed a non-Jew , goes to a rabbi asking to convert and initially has a door shut in her face . Then Spychala met his partner , a Jewish man who works in Jewish philanthropy . One of the first Jewish things they did together was attend synagogue , in 2022 , for the holiday of Simchat Torah , a joyous celebration that involves dancing in the aisles while parading a Torah scroll . " I felt very welcomed , " he said . " It was a big moment for me . " A year later , Simchat Torah fell on October 7th . The mood in synagogue was sombre . There was no dancing this time . " Seeing the difference was just really sad , " Spychala recalled , and he felt himself drawn closer to the Jewish community . This past August , he proposed to his partner with a diamond-studded Star of David necklace ; he completed his conversion a week before the October 7th anniversary . <p> " Two Jews , three opinions , " the saying goes . The canon of Jewish humor includes many jokes about Jewish dissensus , including one about a Jew alone on a desert island who builds two synagogues : one that he attends and another that he would n't set foot in . Conversion to Judaism inspires its own share of disagreement . Lacking a central authority comparable to , say , the Vatican 's governance of the Catholic Church , Jews of different denominations have developed diverging rules and rites around what makes a valid conversion . Orthodox and Conservative Jews require converts to immerse themselves in a mikvah , a ritual bath , and expect male converts to undergo circumcision or , if they are already circumcised , to be pricked to draw a ritual drop of blood . The Orthodox typically do not recognize Conservative or Reform conversions ; Conservative Jews may not recognize Reform ones . And those are just the three major North American denominations . Some Sephardic communities may not accept conversion at all . <p> The basic question of what makes someone a born Jew is no less divisive . American Reform Judaism , since the nineteen-eighties , has recognized " patrilineal Jews , " but the Orthodox and Conservative denominations do not . As a result , a large portion of people who consider themselves Jewish are not acknowledged as such by some of their fellow-Jews . Buchdahl recalled that , as a teen-ager , during a fellowship in Israel for young Jewish leaders , her roommate commented that she was n't Jewish because her mother was n't a Jew . At the age of twenty-one , Buchdahl decided to undergo conversion rituals : appearing before a beth din , a Jewish court , and immersing herself in the mikvah . She chose to think of this as a way of reaffirming that she had always been a Jew . <p> I figured that I would pursue a non-Orthodox conversion , though it stung to know that some Jews would never consider me Jewish . Then , through an Orthodox friend , I learned about a New York-based rabbi named Adam Mintz . Mintz is a member of the century-old Rabbinical Council of America ( R.C.A. ) , which , since 2007 , has overseen standards for Orthodox conversions . But in recent years Mintz has gained , by word of mouth , a reputation for an unusual willingness to provide Orthodox conversions outside the R.C.A. 's system . Creating extreme hurdles for potential converts is " not good for the Jewish people , " he told me , because it prevents the formation of Jewish families . Once he began convening his own beth din , he found that a rising number of people from within the Orthodox Jewish establishment , including R.C.A. leaders , were asking him to convert their own family members . Because of the law of matrilineal descent , the majority of candidates who sought him out were women . Mintz now leads a growing cohort of Orthodox rabbis who share his view that less rigid requirements for conversion can still satisfy Jewish law . In 2022 , he co-founded a nonprofit conversion organization , Project Ruth . <p> Mintz is sixty-three , with eyes that twinkle behind his glasses and an impish laugh that makes his deliberations seem like a series of adventures . I began studying with him over Zoom for several hours each week . One potential obstacle to my Orthodox conversion was that my second husband , Jacob , was a kohen , a member of a priestly male hereditary line going back to the time of Moses , and according to the Talmud kohanim are forbidden to marry converts . Mintz saw two ways around this prohibition . The first , and more controversial , was through interpretative leniency . Mintz considers laws that are stipulated in the Bible to be nonnegotiable . Because God commanded that males must be circumcised , for instance , Mintz requires that male candidates be free of foreskin prior to conversion . ( He told me that not all of them stick around when they hear this news . ) But the particular rule regarding kohanim and converts is rabbinic , not Biblical , which -- arguably -- allows a degree of discretion . A simpler solution would be for Jacob to abdicate his claim to the kohen lineage . After much lively discussion of these points of law , though , the issue seemed increasingly moot : Jacob 's probing of family memories made him highly doubtful that he was a kohen , after all . <p> " Triceradoodle . " <p> Cartoon by Michael Shaw <p> Link copied <p> Mintz 's conversions typically entail six to nine months of study , but after assessing my Jewish knowledge he determined that I would be ready to go to the mikvah in a couple of months . True to Buchdahl 's observation about converts making their spouses more Jewish , in my second marriage I had been the one to insure that our family kept Shabbat rituals . To the bemusement of my new in-laws , I 'd cajoled Jacob into dusting off the Hebrew he 'd learned for his bar mitzvah . He had never imagined that he 'd be keeping kosher , yet he did his best to observe the rules of kashrut with me . During the High Holidays this year , as we walked home after hours in shul , he jokingly wondered aloud , " How did this happen ? " <p> The Hebrew term for " convert , " ger , also means " stranger . " ( My married surname , Gersen , happens to derive from it . ) Buchdahl is writing a memoir , " Heart of a Stranger , " thematically inspired by the Genesis story of Abraham , the father of the Jewish people , who leaves his birthplace when God calls on him to found a new nation . As Buchdahl put it to me , " He ca n't become a Hebrew until he becomes a stranger in a different land . " The word Ivri -- Hebrew person -- comes from the term for " crossing over . " <p> According to rabbinic sources , Abraham and his wife Sarah went on to convert a large number of people to Judaism . In Exodus , God admonishes the Jews not to oppress strangers , " for you were strangers in the land of Egypt , " a line that rabbis have long interpreted as one of God 's many warnings not to mistreat converts . To be a convert to Judaism is to be one form of ger , and to be Jewish is to be another . Converts , by embodying a Jewish relation to strangers , remind Jews that they are strangers even to themselves . Buchdahl told me , " For so much of my Jewish life , I felt inauthentic , and like an outsider in so many ways . At some point , I understood that maybe that 's the most Jewish thing about me . " <p> Jewish texts are wildly ambivalent on the subject of converts . The convert is " more beloved than Israel when they stood at Mount Sinai , " it says in a midrash , a rabbinic interpretation of the Torah . In the Talmud : " Converts are harmful to Israel as leprosy . " Medieval rabbinic discussions of the latter line underscore the divided thinking : one rabbi worries that converts will influence other Jews to become lax in their observance of God 's commandments ; others fear that Jews will inevitably mistreat converts and suffer God 's punishment for it . Yet another rabbi , a convert himself , reasons that because converts are " more meticulous in their observance " they draw attention to the shortcomings of other Jews . <p> Unlike Christianity , Judaism does not teach that people of other faiths must adopt the religion to be saved . But Buchdahl is not the only Jewish leader today who believes that a tradition of Jews proselytizing has been underemphasized . Mintz said that during the early Roman Empire , when Jews were in a position of strength , at least some of them actively worked to convert people in the Hellenistic world . " Not proselytizing is a function of lack of power , " he said . Whether Jews proselytized in this period and how much have been subjects of scholarly debate . Another rabbi , Ethan Tucker , the head of Hadar , a yeshiva in Manhattan , noted that the Jews ' history of persecution includes not only massacres , expulsions , and forcible conversions but also prohibitions on converting people to Judaism , sometimes on pain of death . " I think Jews got very strategically attached to non-proselytizing as a self-defense mechanism , " he said , " and then turned it into a philosophical virtue . " Tucker is the stepson of the late senator Joseph Lieberman , who published a book in 2011 about the Jewish Sabbath , " The Gift of Rest . " If you consider Judaism a " gift " and not a burden , Tucker told me , then it 's natural to want to share it with others . <p> In the Biblical story of Ruth 's conversion , Naomi says " turn back " three separate times before accepting Ruth 's determination to follow her . This has led to an idea that people seeking to convert to Judaism should be turned away three times , or at least initially , to test their conviction . The Talmud says that a person who comes to a court to convert is to be questioned as to his motivation and asked , " Do n't you know that the Jewish people at the present time are anguished , suppressed , despised , and harassed , and hardships are frequently visited upon them ? " If he says he knows and still wants to convert , " the court accepts him immediately to begin the conversion process . " He is then taught " some of the lenient mitzvot and some of the stringent mitzvot , " but rabbis must not " overwhelm him with threats " or be " exacting with him about the details . " As Cosgrove , the Conservative rabbi , put it to me , " When I want to join a gym , they do n't say , ' Get in shape and then join a gym . ' They say , ' Join the gym and we 'll get you in shape . ' " <p> In practice , though , within Orthodox Judaism , conversion candidates are often put through a process that Rabbi Mintz compared to hazing . Converts , candidates , and rabbis told me some of the demoralizing things they 'd experienced or witnessed . ( Most asked to speak anonymously because they feared retaliation from Orthodox institutions . ) Wishful converts had reached out to rabbis and been repeatedly ignored or told to go away . They had been instructed to stop living with their Jewish partners , or to stop dating them altogether , throughout a multiyear conversion process . One candidate was required to move in with an Orthodox family to insure her religious observance . Others had their conversions delayed again and again , for years , because they were n't deemed ready . Rabbis typically prohibited the setting of wedding dates in anticipation of conversions , leaving couples uncertain about when they would be able to start a family . One Jewish man , who today leads a major Jewish organization , said that when he approached an Orthodox rabbi he knew to ask about conversion the rabbi became so cold and discouraging that the man considered leaving Jewish life . He 'd been raised Jewish , with Yiddish-speaking grandparents on his father 's side . But his mother had undergone a Reform conversion , so Orthodox and Conservative communities did n't recognize him as a Jew . He told me that when he eventually met Orthodox rabbis who agreed to convert him he broke down and wept . ( R.C.A. leaders declined my requests for an interview , but a representative said , in an e-mail , that the council aimed " to create an apparatus that operates with professionalism , sensitivity , and transparency . " ) <p> Benjamin Samuels , a Modern Orthodox rabbi and a longtime member of Boston 's Orthodox beth din ( unaffiliated with the R.C.A. ) , told me that rabbis who choose to ignore potential converts are being " negligent of our religious obligations . " He acknowledged the irony that " to become a Jew , you have to be a super Jew . " Still , like many other Orthodox rabbis , he believes that conversion to Judaism should be difficult . Converting someone without having confidence that she will fulfill God 's commandments would violate the Jewish mandate against " placing a stumbling block in front of the blind . " Instead of leading a perfectly good life as a Gentile , Samuels said , she enters a " life of liability . " <p> Mintz , meanwhile , has been inundated with inquiries from potential converts . In 2023 , his beth din in New York completed about ninety conversions ; in 2024 , it has so far completed nearly two hundred -- around the same number that the R.C.A. , which has not seen an increased interest since October 7th , typically completes across North America in the span of a year . Candidates have flown in to see Mintz , sometimes as a family or in groups , from other states -- Kansas , North Carolina , California , Texas -- and from as far abroad as Australia and Hong Kong . His beth din has regularly converted gay , lesbian , and transgender people , and their children . A few of the rabbis who work with him have presided over same-sex weddings . Though Jewish law has not traditionally recognized such unions , Mintz said that a rabbi 's choice to officiate them " in no way disqualifies " him from legally conducting an Orthodox conversion . But the diversity of Jewish communities and their respective rabbinic standards means that virtually no conversion is guaranteed to be accepted everywhere . Indeed , Mintz told me that a substantial number of his candidates are converting to " fix , " " upgrade , " or " strengthen " their Jewish status -- and he acknowledges that if , in the future , any of them want to join a Jewish community with a different set of standards , they might choose to go to the mikvah again . <p> On Rosh Hashanah this year , Rabbi Rubin of Central Synagogue gave a sermon in which she likened the post-October 7th surge in conversions to one in post-Holocaust Germany , where so many people sought to convert to Judaism ? ? that a commission was formed in Berlin to help process requests . But the divisions within the Jewish community today complicate the comparison . Nancy Ko is a Korean American convert to Judaism and a doctoral student in Middle Eastern history at Columbia . She grew up around the many Jews who frequented her family 's grocery store , in Brooklyn 's Bensonhurst neighborhood . In college , she studied the history of Arab and Middle Eastern Jews . She also became involved in activism against the Israeli occupation and helped found an organization to promote the inclusion of non-Zionists and anti-Zionists in campus Jewish communities . She told me that she finally decided to convert after an Israeli American mentor , paraphrasing Moses ' metaphor about Jews opening their hearts to God , urged her , in Hebrew , to " circumcise your soul . " Ko was moved by the Talmud 's teaching that the souls of converts were present at Mt . Sinai with all Jewish souls when God gave Jews the Torah . Though she had no Jewish partner or family , she wanted an Orthodox conversion , in part , she told me , " so that I could daven in any shul and bless the bread at any Shabbos table , and so that my children would be able to do so as well . " Mintz 's beth din converted her in 2022 , sixteen months before October 7th . <p> When I spoke with Ko recently , she was working to get money to families who had fled from Gaza to Egypt . She connected her pro-Palestinian activism with her family 's origins on the Korean island of Jeju , where , in 1948 , an uprising during the American military occupation was met with a massacre that eventually killed tens of thousands of civilians ; the same year , in what 's become known as the Nakba , hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were displaced during the formation of the State of Israel . On October 7th , a friend and colleague of Ko 's , an Israeli American anti-occupation peace activist , was killed by Hamas . Another friend , a Palestinian in the West Bank , told her that he could n't get out because Israel had closed the border . When Ko posted critically about Israel on social media , a Jewish friend messaged her to say that she should n't " pretend to be part of the Jewish community . " Ko belongs to a group of observant Jews who came together for prayer after October 7th , feeling out of step with Jewish institutions . She told me that it was " unbearable to be in the synagogue where folks are celebrating that a hospital was destroyed , or are standing up to do the prayer for Israel . " <p> Still , Ko 's anti-Zionism exists necessarily in relation to mainstream Jewish identity -- as a form of dissent . " You can not be a Jew alone , " she said . " No matter how Jewish you know you are , it 's not completely up to you . It 's up to the community to decide what kind of Judaism and Jewishness they want to advocate for . " Ko told me that , given her views on Israel , she suspects that the beth din might have rejected her if she 'd tried to convert after October 7th . Rabbi Mintz insisted otherwise . " She would have been accepted , " he said . " The beauty of rabbinic Judaism -- it is all about the argument . " On that last point , the two of them concur . Ko told me , " There 's been a very rich history of Jewish anti-Zionists . There 's been division on these questions . What are Jews if not disagreers ? " She added , quoting the Talmud , " Machloket l'shem shamayim " -- " Disagreement for the sake of Heaven . " <p> In June , my parents and I happened to be in South Korea when Rabbi Buchdahl delivered a speech at the launch of a center for Israel studies at Seoul National University , my father 's alma mater . Before an audience of government officials , academics , and diplomats , Buchdahl noted parallels between the stories of Koreans and Jews , remarking that " the modern states of these ancient peoples " were formed within months of each other . But it was the differences between the cultures that enlivened her storytelling . She compared Korean folk tales about the value of filial piety with a midrash about Abraham smashing his father 's idols . She contrasted her mother 's solitary Buddhist learning with the Jewish tradition of havruta , studying in noisy dialogue with a partner . To conclude , she took out a guitar and sang a mashup of " Jerusalem of Gold , " an Israeli song from the nineteen-sixties expressing longing for the Old City , which was then under Jordanian rule , and the Korean folk song " Arirang , " which , during the Japanese occupation of Korea , became an anthem of anti-colonial resistance . <p> I made the unconventional choice to have two different Jewish courts oversee my conversion ceremony at the same time . Rabbi Mintz convened an Orthodox beth din with two younger rabbis , who gave off Brooklyn hipster vibes . Rabbi Buchdahl assembled a Reform one with another rabbi from Central Synagogue and a congregant of theirs , my longtime friend Tali Farhadian Weinstein , an Iranian American Jew . Another close friend , who is Orthodox , and Jacob accompanied me . A quarter century of dilemmas of identity and belonging had led me there , and the meeting , at the West Side Mikvah in Manhattan , seemed to embody its own fresh contradictions . Mintz also teaches at Yeshivat Maharat , an Orthodox institution in the Bronx that trains and ordains women as rabbis , but , per Orthodox conversion rules , there are no women on his beth din . One of the Orthodox rabbis remarked to me later , " Angela is one of the great rabbis in the world " and joked , " Why would she need me , a little pischer rabbi in Brooklyn , to complete this conversion ? " <p> The event began with an extended discussion between the rabbis and me about my path to conversion . I recounted my Korean childhood , my decades in a Jewish family , my love of Jewish tradition , and my sense of belonging among the Jewish people . Afterward , to prepare for the heart of the proceedings , I went alone into a spa-like marble bathroom . I took off my jewelry and makeup , undressed , washed , and put on a white bathrobe that a mikvah attendant had left for me . Some Orthodox rabbis insist on being present for a convert 's immersion , or at least on observing through slits in a partition , to insure that it 's done properly . Mintz does n't do that with female converts , so he waited outside , but Buchdahl and my two friends entered the room with me . <p> The mikvah itself was an inviting lapis blue and resembled a luxurious plunge pool . The water was warm . I submerged my body , then my head and my long hair . I curled into a ball underwater . Suspended there , I felt gently but fully held . I recited the mikvah prayer : " Blessed are You , O Lord , our God , King of the universe , who has sanctified us with His commandments and commanded us regarding the immersion . " In the long-sought ritual , I momentarily sensed boundaries receding as I crossed over to become a Korean American Jew . <p> When I emerged from the mikvah , the two sets of rabbis showed me the documents they 'd prepared to officially mark my new Jewish status . The papers bore my chosen Hebrew name : Chava , or Eve . Buchdahl told me that the certificate of conversion under Reform Judaism would be sent to be recorded for posterity in the American Jewish Archives . I looked expectantly toward the Orthodox rabbis . They seemed impressed . One of them said , " We keep a list in a Google doc . " ? <p> Published in the print edition of the December 9 , 2024 , issue , with the headline " The Choosing Ones . "
