<h> The Syrian civil war highlights shifting alliances , Turkey 's ascendance , and enduring threats from Iran and jihadists . <p> By DR . ERIC R. MANDEL DECEMBER 8 , 2024 21:44 <p> Smoke rises , after Syrian rebels announced that they have ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , in Damascus , Syria , December 8 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/AMR ABDALLAH DALSH ) <p> Two weeks ago , the dormant 13-year-old Syrian civil war was barely on the radar of American and Israeli political , defense , and security leaders , with everyone focused on Iran , Hezbollah , and Gaza . The lesson is that those who think they know what is coming next in Syria and the region are fooling themselves . <p> After the Arab Winter in 2011 , when Egyptian President Mubarak was toppled , few saw the rapid rise of the Muslim Brotherhood , which led to the election of the anti-American Islamist President Morsi . His short tenure ended in a coup by military strongman al-Sisi , who is still the authoritarian President of Egypt . <p> In retrospect , the events in the region over the past thirteen years seem to make sense , but they certainly did n't at the time . Today 's political leaders must force themselves to remember how precarious the situation was at the time and how little insight our defense , security , and intelligence analysts had as the events transpired in real-time . <p> Today , Iran is on the defensive , but as a cornered rat , it is more dangerous than ever . With attention grabbed by the events unfolding in Syria , one might presume that Iran has suffered a major strategic defeat and is in no position to cause trouble , as its primary proxy in Lebanon is isolated , and Syria is no longer under its thumb . <p> On the contrary , while everyone is focused on Syria and the march of the jihadists backed by Turkey 's Islamist President Erdogan , we must not take our eye off the Islamic Republic of Iran , whose mullahs are likely to decide now is the time to dash to a nuclear weapon to become immune to an attack . Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan speaks after a signing ceremony in Ankara , Turkey September 4 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/MURAD SEZER ) <p> My recommendation to both the Biden and Trump administrations is to seize the moment of Israeli decapitation of Iran 's anti-missile system as the right time to strike on the nuclear weapons program . A nuclear Iran remains a nightmare scenario for the Middle East , Israel , and US national security interests . <h> Turkey 's rise in Syria <p> The apparent initial winner in Syria is Turkey , an American frenemy that is now ascendant in the region over Iran and Russia . From Erdogan 's view , Turkey is now in the position it should rightfully have : the great Muslim power in the Middle East , fulfilling his neo-Ottoman imperialist vision of restoring the loss of Turkey 's hundreds of years of leadership of the Muslim world . <p> The question is , will the jihadists of HTS be loyal to Erdogan over time ? The alliances of the Syrian rebels could collapse . HTS are Salafists , an offshoot of al-Qaeda . The primary group Erdogan backed was the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) , a rebel group that may be more moderate and weaker than HTS . <p> Will the stronger HTS jihadists devour their temporary SNA ally ? Turkey will work with anyone who will allow it to take over northern Syria , ethically cleanse the Syrian Kurds from that region , and return the three million Syrian refugees to Syria who took shelter in Turkey during the civil war . <p> The Syrian Kurds , who helped the US defeat ISIS and are imprisoning tens of thousands of ISIS sympathizers , are now on the offensive from their territory in northwest Syria southward , taking over the crucial Sunni city of Deir al Zour . Turkey ethnically cleansed Kurds a few years ago from northeast Syria and is likely to turn its attention to the Kurds in the northwest , who they consider to be mortal enemies , part of the militant group PKK . The US sees the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) as allies against ISIS . A Kurdish-Turkish war is the next shoe to fall , which will require the Trump administration to weigh in . <p> And what about the HTS 's ideological jihadist cousins , ISIS ( DAESH ) ? Is this an opportunity for them to arise and wreak havoc in Syria , Iraq , and through the Middle East again as they did a decade ago ? <p> Russia will do all it can to preserve its Hmeimim air base in Latakia and its Tartus naval port on the Mediterranean . The Iran alliance is a casualty for the time being . However , Russia will still work with Iran as part of the axis of resistance , buying drones and missiles for its war in Ukraine , adding to the Supreme Leader 's coffers . <p> As for Israel , it has preemptively moved forces into parts of the Syrian Golan to block jihadists on its border . Sunni jihadists are not friends of the Jewish State , but hopefully , a d ? tente or ceasefire can be arranged . I doubt that HTS will directly speak with Israel , but Israel should try . Keep your friends close and your enemies closer . Remember , HTS 's sponsor , Erdogan , protects Hamas and is profoundly anti-Semitic . <p> Syria was the target for hundreds of Israeli strikes over the years . Still , it was exclusively about stopping the transit of Iranian arms to Hezbollah in Lebanon and , most recently , about targeting Iranian assets and advanced weapons factories in Syria . Israel is now hitting the last of the Syrian and Iranian weapons facilities in Syria to prevent them from falling into the hands of adversaries . However , Israel should anticipate Iran finding new ways to support Hezbollah . <p> And do n't forget about Jordan . The jihadists can either march or inspire the Islamists in Jordan to destabilize a critical US ally , not to mention how Israel 's security would be undermined with jihadists in Amman . <p> With a new American administration only five weeks away and many potential Trump candidates in intelligence and defense positions profoundly influenced by America 's debacles in Iraq and Afghanistan , the likely recommendation from this group will be for the US to do nothing . <p> However , the Marco Rubio-Mike Waltz faction knows better . Creating a vacuum in the Levant will create more chaos with the chance of American troops being drawn in again . <p> The temptation for the neo-isolationist wing is to remove the 900 US troops in the al-Tanf region in Syria , bordering Jordan and Iraq . They have been a stabilizing force in preventing the return of ISIS and supporting our Kurdish allies . They are a force multiplier for stability and should remain in place . But their safety needs to be watched closely and acted upon if the jihadists threaten them . In reality , their greatest threat is the Iranian-controlled militias in Iraq , and they are now on the defensive . <p> Now is not the time to forget about Iran . Suppose the Supreme Leader and the IRGC know America and Israel will not use kinetic actions to stop their dash to an atomic bomb . In that case , that is an invitation for the still dangerous Supreme Leader to act quickly to become a nuclear power and return to its hegemonic ambitions . <p> So , who will have President Trump 's ear , Rubio , Waltz , and company , or Vice President-elect Vance and Tulsi Gabbard ? As always , America may want to leave the Middle East , but the region keeps calling it back . <p> Dr. Eric Mandel is the Director of MEPIN , the Middle East Political Information Network , and the Senior Security Editor of the Jerusalem Report . He regularly briefs member of Congress and their foreign policy aides .
