<h> Thanks to the integration of these technologies , Israel managed to neutralize threats on the two main fronts of the current war -- Hamas and Hezbollah -- within just a few months . <p> Israel 's success against Hamas and Hezbollah in this war stems from a fundamental principle that has underpinned Israel 's security concept since its founding : the principle of quality . This refers to the quality of both personnel and the science and technology within the IDF . <p> Alongside the human element , this war stands out for its extraordinary technological superiority . Most of the systems used by Israel -- from cyber to artificial intelligence ( AI ) and drones -- are the result of Israeli innovation . The majority of these technologies originated within the civilian ecosystem , with subsequent security applications . <p> This phenomenon , known as dual-use technology , has become a cornerstone of Israel 's security strategy . Dual-use technologies are defined as those developed in the civilian sphere but later adapted for military use , and vice versa -- technologies developed by defense agencies that are later adopted by the public ( such as GPS , originally developed by the US military ) . <p> For example , cyber or AI technologies intended for the civilian market are now being used to locate wanted individuals or make decisions on the battlefield . IDF soldiers from Unit 636 , operating under the 36th Division , eliminate Hezbollah terrorists in southern Lebanon , October 9 , 2024. ( credit : IDF SPOKESPERSON 'S UNIT ) <p> However , the disparity between civilian and security development mechanisms presents a significant challenge . <p> While the IDF relies on dedicated security developments -- such as missiles and armored vehicles -- many security innovations today stem from the civilian world . <p> The security development process is slow , cumbersome , and costly , whereas development in the civilian ecosystem is fast-paced , driven by a large volume of ideas that are quickly realized and with relatively small budgets . <p> In recent years , security development institutions around the world have become increasingly aware of the differences between these two development environments and have begun to adopt mechanisms typically found in the civilian sector , such as venture capital funds and start-ups . <h> Defense technology <p> For example , the Israel Defense Forces ' Research and Development Administration ( DDR&amp;D -- Directorate of Defense Research &amp; Development ) has entered this sphere through venture capital funds focusing on technological innovation . This has contributed to the rise of fields like defense tech , which combines civilian technologies with defense potential , including cyber , AI , drones , and space technologies . <p> Thanks to the integration of these technologies , Israel managed to neutralize threats on the two main fronts of the current war -- Hamas in the Gaza Strip and Hezbollah in Lebanon -- within just a few months . <p> One of the most striking conclusions from this conflict is that the integration of civilian and defense development mechanisms is a key to maintaining Israel 's technological superiority . This bridge between the innovative civilian world and the focused defense world must be further strengthened , and dual-use technologies must continue to be developed to ensure the future of Israel 's national security . <p> The writer , an IDF reserve maj. -gen. , is chairman of the Center for Cyber Research at Tel Aviv University . The center is co-hosting the DefenseTech Summit on December 10 and 11 at Tel Aviv University in collaboration with MAFAT , the Defense Ministry 's Directorate of Defense Research &amp; Development .
