<p> Smotrich called for decisive action in Gaza and the West Bank , urging the government to strip Hamas of its authority and dismantle remaining terror hubs in the West Bank . <p> " It is time to seize control of Gaza and strip Hamas of its civilian authority , cutting off its lifeline , " he declared . " We 've seen in Syria how regime leaders flee like rats when they realize they 've lost their grip on power . The same can be achieved in Gaza . We are close -- we 've already made tremendous strides there . Now , we must take the next step to secure a decisive and clear victory . " <p> Smotrich also criticized deals that would result in the release of some hostages , saying they compromised military achievements . " Instead of discussing partial deals that leave many hostages behind , compromise the war 's achievements , and diminish the chance of victory , we must press forward . We must stop fearing our own shadows and do what is necessary , " he said . <p> " If we take these necessary steps , with God 's help , we will see the remaining Hamas leaders flee like rats , desperate to save themselves and their families . This will bring all the hostages home and remove the threat to Israel once and for all . " Einav Zangauker , the mother of hostage Matan Zangauker and demonstrators protest calling for the release of Israeli hostages held in the Gaza Strip outside Hakirya Base in Tel Aviv , December 7 , 2024. ( credit : MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <h> Dismantling West Bank terror <p> Regarding the West Bank , Smotrich called for increased settlement and referred to the region as Iran 's last foothold . " The axis of evil 's ultimate hope is to establish a Palestinian state there as a base for the destruction of Israel , " he asserted . " Here , too , we must end the policy of containment and defense and shift to initiative and offense . We must dismantle terror hubs , strengthen Jewish settlements , and create facts on the ground that prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state and remove this possibility from the agenda once and for all . " <p> Smotrich also criticized the Attorney General and the prosecution for requiring Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to testify in court despite the war . " Tomorrow , the Prime Minister is expected to testify in court for extended hours , as required by the Attorney General and the prosecution , who have refused to postpone the testimony despite the war and the significant security challenges we face , " the RZP head said . <p> " The fact that the prime minister is required to appear in court at such a critical time is absurd and constitutes a severe blow to national interests , " he added . " Those who ignore this grave warning may find themselves responsible for security failures , and history will judge them accordingly . " <p> Despite the war 's economic strain , Smotrich assured that the economy would remain stable . " Wars are costly , and this latest conflict , spanning seven fronts , is particularly expensive , " he said . " However , fears of economic collapse , the government 's inability to pass a budget during the war , and capital flight from Israel have proven to be baseless . Despite the challenges of war , I can confidently say that Israel 's economy is strong and stable , thanks to the policies we are implementing . " <p> Smotrich ended his remarks on an optimistic note . " This is just the beginning . Israel 's economy will soar to unprecedented heights . "
