<h> Microsoft 's Recall AI is creepy , clever , and compelling <h> Microsoft 's Recall AI is creepy , clever , and compelling <h> I 've been testing the controversial Recall feature and I 'm still not sure if I love it or hate it . <p> ByTom Warren , a senior editor and author of Notepad , who has been covering all things Microsoft , PC , and tech for over 20 years . <p> Dec 12 , 2024 , 6:00 PM UTC <h> Share this story <p> Image : Microsoft <p> I honestly thought I 'd hate Microsoft 's controversial Recall feature and immediately disable it , but after using it for the past couple of weeks , I 've been both creeped out and impressed with what it 's capable of . <p> Recall , a Windows 11 feature that takes snapshots of mostly everything you see on your screen , quickly became a controversy earlier this year after Microsoft announced it . Privacy advocates immediately started warning about potential issues with Recall without even using it , and security researchers found big holes in a prerelease version of the feature . Microsoft delayed Recall multiple times to give the company more time to address the security issues , and it 's now in testing for Windows Insiders ahead of a broader rollout next year . <p> The first thing I noticed about Recall is that the initial setup experience is very clunky and feels unfinished . You launch the app , and it redirects you to Windows Update , where AI models will start downloading and installing . Once you 've installed a trio of these , it looks like the install process is complete -- but then Windows Update will find another component of Recall to install . After fiddling around for 10 minutes , Recall will finally offer up a setup experience that allows you to enable or disable snapshots . <p> Snapshots are the key part of how Recall works , and they form the foundation of a scrollable timeline that lets you jump back through everything you 've seen . They 're essentially screenshots of what you were working on , much like how your browser history is stored in a web browser . But critically , a screenshot of your entire screen has a lot more information . <p> When I first started scrolling through the Recall timeline , it freaked me out . My emails were recorded , my Slack messages with colleagues were snapshotted , and photos from a recent vacation all went into Recall 's database . Even drafts of dumb tweets I did n't send were captured by Recall . It honestly felt a little creepy to scroll through my digital life like this . <p> I immediately removed Slack from being added to Recall and deleted its relevant snapshots . Microsoft makes it easy to exclude an app from Recall in settings but also just to remove snapshots for specific apps at a later date . You can select a snapshot from the search interface of Recall and remove the associated app or even websites . <p> Once I 'd gotten over the creepy aspect of Recall and changed some settings , I mostly forgot about the feature for a few days and let it do its thing of snapshotting my laptop until two things happened that really surprised me . <p> Over the past couple of weeks , I 've been doing some Christmas shopping , and I found the perfect gift for my partner and then immediately started searching around different stores for availability and pricing . I eventually got distracted and forgot to order the gift . A few days later , after I 'd closed the tabs that I was using to search for the gift , I was trying to find it again . I headed into Chrome 's browsing history to find the website I 'd seen with the best price , but I had searched through multiple retailers , so it was impossible to find the exact site without opening nearly 20 tabs and searching through manually again . <p> I pulled up Recall instead and searched just for " ? 85 " on a whim , the best price I remember seeing for the item . Before I could blink , there it was , immediately in the Recall search interface . It did n't take Recall minutes or even seconds ; it was as instant as a Google search result . It was honestly surprising to see how fast this Recall search works , especially given Windows search features have only gotten worse over the years . <p> Recall also helped me review the social media accounts of the suspect in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson . After the suspect was named , social media companies started removing profiles , but because I was browsing them with Recall , it stored them all on my PC before they vanished . I was able to scroll through the snapshots without having to rely on an online archiving service . As a journalist , I often have to screenshot tweets just in case someone deletes them , and Recall is just sitting there doing the work for me in case I forget . <p> Recall also lets you copy text or images from these snapshots it creates or , if it 's a website , you can just revisit the website again . Most of the time , this works well , but I have plenty of snapshots where Recall simply does n't recognize the text or let me copy it fully . There have also been times when I 've searched for something I remember seeing and Recall did n't store it , so it 's not recording literally everything you 've seen . <p> While I 've found some early examples of Recall helping me out , I still need more time to figure out whether I want to keep it enabled . As impressive as it is , I 'm still wary of storing a digital trail like this on my laptop . I 'm also waiting to see if security researchers are happy with Microsoft 's big Recall changes . One of the main changes means authenticating with Windows Hello every time you want to use Recall , which can be a little annoying right now . But if it keeps Recall secure , then I ca n't really complain too much about this minor inconvenience . <p> It 's also important to note here that Recall will only be available on Copilot Plus PCs , so unless you 've purchased one of these new laptops over the past six months , you wo n't be able to access this new feature . There 's been a lot of FUD , largely from YouTubers , about how Microsoft is supposedly secretly planning to install Recall on every Windows 11 PC , but that 's simply not accurate . Recall is one of the headline features of Copilot Plus PCs and requires a dedicated NPU to run efficiently . <p> I 'm now hoping that the new AI-powered changes to Windows Search will be as useful as Recall , without requiring snapshots of your PC . Microsoft is promising to launch a similar natural language search to the main search interface on Windows , allowing you to find files and documents without needing to know file names or search for pictures using words . If my experience with Recall is anything to go by , it should make finding files a breeze . <p> As I 've started to rely more on Recall for searches , there have also been times I 've been using my desktop PC and wished I had access to it . Microsoft is tying its new Windows AI features to NPUs , and we have n't seen Intel or AMD lean into desktop CPUs that have Copilot Plus compatibility yet . I hope that changes soon because , as much as I 'm not a fan of generative AI features that create images of people with six fingers , using AI to improve the daily tasks of searching for things on my PC is a far more compelling part of the future of Windows . <h> A Microsoft employee resigns with a protest over military contracts <p> A software engineer quit Microsoft last week with a protest email that encouraged coworkers to sign a petition against Microsoft 's partnerships with the Israeli military and government . <p> Angela Yu 's email hit the inboxes of hundreds or thousands of Microsoft employees , but I understand from multiple sources that the email did n't go companywide . It appears that Yu identified email distribution lists with hundreds or thousands of employees in each of them , allowing her to get her message out widely without having to seek the usual approvals to email colleagues in bulk . <p> " I joined Microsoft with the belief that my work will advance technology for ' the good of humanity , ' " Yu wrote in her December 4th email . " However , some of Microsoft 's business policies and recent actions against my colleagues make me wonder if the company is staying true to its own principles . I 'm especially concerned about the reports from this year that disclose Microsoft products like Azure are powering military weapons platforms responsible for killing tens of thousands of people . " <p> Yu also referenced Microsoft firing two employees earlier this year after they held a vigil outside of Microsoft 's headquarters for Palestinians killed in Gaza . Much like Yu 's email , the protest called out Microsoft 's dealings with Israel and the Israel-Hamas war . Ben Hope , a Microsoft spokesperson , said that Microsoft " communicated our policies clearly to event organizers " and requested that the event occur off campus . <p> " We have emphasized that we are committed to a professional and respectful work environment , providing various channels for employee voices . However , disruptions to business operations are not allowed , " Hope said . <h> The pad : <p> Cruise 's demise will cost Microsoft $800 million . Microsoft says it will " record an impairment charge of approximately $800 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 " that 's tied to GM 's decision to pull funding for Cruise 's robotaxi service . Microsoft first invested in Cruise in 2021 , and in return , Cruise used Azure to help speed up the commercialization of autonomous vehicles and manage its robotaxi fleet . <p> Microsoft starts testing iPhone file sharing for Windows PCs . Microsoft has started testing some improvements to its Phone Link app for iPhone users that make it a lot easier to share files from an iPhone to a PC and vice versa . The Phone Link app is still far better when paired with an Android device , but it 's good to see that Microsoft has n't given up on trying to work around Apple 's various iOS restrictions . <p> Xbox tests streaming your Xbox games to your Xbox . Xbox Insiders can now try out streaming some Xbox games they own to their Xbox consoles this week . It 's part of an expansion of the buy and stream initiative that Microsoft kicked off last month on the web , and it means you could play an Xbox game on your console without ever having to download it . You 'll still need Xbox Game Pass Ultimate to access Xbox Cloud Gaming , though . <p> Microsoft wants to make the Xbox app the home of PC gaming . Microsoft has started updating its Xbox app with a new homescreen and more than 400 games that were n't previously available in the app . It 's part of a broader effort to make the Xbox app a lot more friendly to PC games and surface Xbox Play Anywhere games that can be purchased and played across both PC and console . I 'm expecting Microsoft to also start listing Steam games in this Xbox app in the future , making it a hub for all your games , regardless of where you 've purchased them from . <p> Microsoft AI 's CEO poaches former Google DeepMind colleagues for a new AI health unit . The Financial Times reports that Mustafa Suleyman , cofounder of Google DeepMind , has now hired multiple former colleagues to help run a new AI health unit at Microsoft . The former head of DeepMind 's health unit , Dominic King , has been hired as vice president of Microsoft AI 's new London-based health team . Microsoft has confirmed the effort , and as Suleyman is focused on consumer AI efforts , it will be interesting to see exactly where this goes . If you know anything , drop me a line at notepad@theverge.com . <p> Microsoft is giving Copilot a new taskbar UI and keyboard shortcut on Windows . Copilot has gone through a lot of changes on Windows over the past year , and it 's changing once again . After demoting Copilot to a Progressive Web App ( PWA ) earlier this year , Microsoft is now rolling out an update to Windows testers that replaces the PWA version of Copilot with a " native " experience that includes a new keyboard shortcut and quick-view UI . I say " native " because this is n't really a Windows app ; it 's just a web app wrapped up to look more native to Windows . The new quick view floats above the taskbar , much like Microsoft 's new Companion apps , and can be triggered with a new Alt + Space keyboard shortcut . <p> Microsoft AI chief Mustafa Suleyman says conversational AI is the next web browser . Verge editor-in-chief Nilay Patel sat down with Microsoft 's AI CEO recently to discuss his time at the software giant , how he defines AGI , and the complicated relationship between Microsoft and OpenAI . It 's an hour-long conversation that 's well worth tuning in to . <p> Another Microsoft 365 outage knocks web apps offline . Microsoft had another major Microsoft 365 outage earlier this week , the second in two weeks . This time , web apps like Outlook and Teams were impacted , and Microsoft recommended that businesses turn to desktop apps to access data and documents while the outage was ongoing . Hopefully we do n't enter a third week of Microsoft 365 outages . <p> Windows 11 's 24H2 update now works with more Ubisoft games . Microsoft stopped offering 24H2 to gamers with certain Ubisoft games installed recently , but it 's now opening the door for players of Avatar : Frontiers of Pandora and Star Wars Outlaws . Microsoft is applying a " temporary " patch to get the games running again , but Assassin 's Creed games like Valhalla are still affected , and systems with these titles remain blocked from upgrading . <p> Microsoft has created an Xbox 360 Red Ring of Death ugly sweater . Microsoft employees spotted an " Xbox 360 glitch holiday sweater " at the employee-only company store earlier this week . It includes a power button that illuminates green , and there 's even an interchangeable module that produces the Red Ring of Death . It sold out within hours , and it does n't look like Microsoft is going to be selling this particular item outside of just Microsoft employees . <p> Microsoft hires Captain America to sell AI-powered laptops . Microsoft is stepping up its Copilot Plus PC marketing with a new ad for the upcoming Captain America : Brave New World movie . The 60-second spot features Danny Ramirez 's Joaquin Torres ( Falcon ) using a Surface Laptop 7 with Paint 's Cocreator AI mode to generate images . Microsoft has been running similar TV ads in recent weeks , claiming that its Qualcomm-powered laptops are somehow " the fastest ... Windows PCs ever . " <p> Microsoft loses a key Windows executive . Shilpa Ranganathan , who spent more than 16 years at Microsoft in various Windows roles , is now returning to Expedia as chief product officer . Ranganathan managed a team responsible for Microsoft Launcher and the company 's cross-device efforts in 2018 . Ranganathan most recently served as a member of the senior leadership team of Windows and was focused on the product management and engineering of the Windows Shell , AI Copilot , and developer platform and experiences . <p> Microsoft Surface rumors point to a big Copilot Plus refresh next year . Microsoft is rumored to be updating its Surface lineup for 2025 with Intel Lunar Lake-based Copilot Plus PCs . Windows Central reports that the Surface Laptop Studio is due an upgrade to make it Copilot Plus-compatible and that Microsoft is preparing Intel Lunar Lake versions of the Surface Laptop and Surface Pro , too . Microsoft loves to hold Surface events in the spring or fall , so we could be looking at some announcements in the coming months . <p> Microsoft joins Bluesky and immediately nerds out . Microsoft managed to join Bluesky in style last week . The first post included an image of the Windows XP Bliss wallpaper and a pun about blue skies , but Microsoft even backdated this post to its founding date of April 4th , 1975 , using Bluesky 's AT Protocol . That 's the kind of nerdery that Bluesky users appreciate . If you 're on Bluesky , you can find me @tomwarren.co.uk . <p> Google asks the FTC to kill Microsoft 's exclusive cloud deal with OpenAI . Google has reportedly asked the Federal Trade Commission to break up Microsoft 's exclusive agreement to host OpenAI 's technology on Azure . The Information reports that the FTC conversation took place as part of a broader investigation into Microsoft 's cloud business . Google has also been lobbying regulators in Europe to put pressure on Microsoft 's Azure pricing and licensing . As I 've written before , Microsoft and Google are very much at war again . <p> Microsoft ends Surface Studio 2 Plus production with no successor in sight . Microsoft has quietly ended production of its Surface Studio 2 Plus all-in-one PC two years after introducing the latest model . It now looks like the end of the road for Microsoft 's innovative Surface Studio , once considered the ultimate all-in-one Windows device . While the Surface Studio was always an expensive and niche device , there was nothing else quite like it on the market . I 'm still holding out hope that Microsoft might one day release a standalone folding and transforming screen so we can turn any laptop or PC into a Surface Studio . <p> You can now try Microsoft 's Recall AI feature on Intel and AMD Copilot Plus PCs . After opening up Recall to Qualcomm-powered Copilot Plus PCs last month , Microsoft has expanded the testing pool to Intel- and AMD-powered Copilot Plus devices . It has also enabled some of the first Windows AI features on these x86 laptops , so I 'd expect these will start rolling out beyond Windows Insiders soon . <p> Microsoft kills off suggested actions in Windows 11 . Suggested actions were added to Windows 11 to surface phone numbers or dates in the OS and let you quickly take actions on them . Now , Microsoft says this underused feature is being " deprecated and will be removed in a future Windows 11 update . " <p> The Windows 11 system tray might get an emoji button soon . I 'm not sure who is asking for an emoji button to clutter up the system tray , but Microsoft 's latest Windows 11 builds reference the potential for one soon . Hopefully this can be fully disabled easily . <p> Xbox is sponsoring Luke " The Nuke " Littler . If , like me , you 're a fan of darts , then this is a marketing crossover you might have seen coming . Luke Littler , who hit the headlines as a 16-year-old prodigy last year at the World Darts Championship , is now sponsored by Xbox for the same tournament this year . Littler plays FIFA and Fortnite on his Xbox and regularly speaks about wanting to get back to his Xbox after matches -- so this seems like the ideal pairing . <p> Thanks for subscribing and reading to the very end . As we 're nearly at the end of 2024 , this will be my last issue until the new year . I 'm taking a two-week break over the Christmas period , before the CES shenanigans begin . I 'm not expecting big news from Microsoft directly at CES , but I 'm sure some of its software will appear in some unusual places in January . Stay tuned for more of that next year , and thanks for reading all my work throughout 2024 . <p> If you 've heard about any of Microsoft 's other secret projects , you can reach me via email at notepad@theverge.com or speak to me confidentially on the Signal messaging app , where I 'm tomwarren.01 . I 'm also tomwarren on Telegram , if you 'd prefer to chat there .
