<h> David Ushery to succeed Chuck Scarborough at NBC New York 6pm news desk <h> Ushery will start the new role as co-anchor of " News 4 New York at 6 p.m. " on Monday , Dec. 16 <p> NBC 4 New York/WNBC has named David Ushery as the new co-anchor of " News 4 New York at 6 p.m. , " starting on Monday , December 16 . Ushery succeeds legendary journalist Chuck Scarborough at the 6 p.m. news desk ; a role Scarborough held for more than 50 years and will relinquish on Thursday , December 12 . Ushery will continue in his current role as co-anchor of the NBC 's flagship station 's 4 PM and 11 PM newscasts alongside Natalie Pasquarella , who he will also join at 6 p.m . <p> " David is the real thing . He is an excellent writer , a terrific reporter and an outstanding anchor who is at his best when news is breaking and there is no script . He is also committed to helping others and regularly spends time in our communities across the Tri-State , " said Eric Lerner , President and General Manager . " David is the perfect choice for our 6 p.m. newscast and will continue WNBC 's tradition of excellence " . <p> One of the most accomplished broadcast journalists in the Tri-State region , Ushery was chosen by his NBC 4 New York news colleagues to accept the prestigious Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Award in 2021 , recognizing the station 's coverage of the COVID-19 outbreak across the Tri-State area . A mainstay at the 30 Rock anchor desk throughout the pandemic , Ushery 's decision to appear in-studio reflected a personal commitment to offering viewers a sense of visual familiarity during a very unfamiliar time . The duPont has long been recognized as the broadcast , documentary and on-line equivalent of the Pulitzer Prize , also awarded by Columbia University . <p> " For more than 20 years , covering everything from tragedies to triumphs , David has proven he can do it all , " said Amy Morris , Senior Vice President of News for NBC 4 New York and Telemundo 47 . " Ush , as he 's known in the newsroom , is an innovative journalist who connects with audiences on any platform . He 's a critical talent as ' News 4 New York ' continues to evolve and build for the future . " <p> Ushery is a member of the New York State Broadcasters Hall of Fame and the Silver Circle for the National Academy of Television Arts &amp; Sciences , New York Chapter . In addition to the Columbia-duPont award , Ushery has been honored with two National Edward R. Murrow Awards for WNBC 's October 2012 coverage of Superstorm Sandy and December 2019 coverage of the deadly Jersey City shootout . His work on Superstorm Sandy was also recognized with a National Emmy ? Award . <p> " In a time when the media industry is evolving on a near-daily basis , our responsibility as local journalists will never change : to verify the facts , to ask the tough questions and to deliver the news in a clear , honest and transparent manner worthy of our viewers trust , " said David Ushery . " That is exactly what we do at WNBC and for more than 20 years , I have been privileged to work alongside some of the finest journalists in our business right here at 30 Rock . I look forward to continuing this important mission every weeknight at 6 PM with my colleagues and friends Natalie Pasquarella , Janice Huff and Bruce Beck . " <h> Biography of David Ushery <h> News <p> David Ushery has offered WNBC viewers a front row seat to the biggest news stories of the day for more than 20 years . He has travelled around the world to report live from site of terror attacks in Paris and Manchester , England , the front lines in Gaza and the West Bank and the opening of the United States Embassy in Jerusalem . He has also made multiple visits to St. Peter 's Square in Rome where he covered the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI , the 2013 papal conclave electing Pope Francis and the canonizations of Pope Saint John Paul II and Pope Saint John XXIII . He has also moderated televised debates for New York City Mayor , New York City Comptroller and New York State Governor . <p> Throughout the pandemic and periods of civil unrest following the murder of George Floyd , Ushery was a daily presence in WNBC 's 30 Rock studios , delivering the latest information to viewers while frequently transitioning to daily press conferences hosted by federal , state and local officials . He also took a closer look at the relationships between law enforcement and communities of color during this time , which included exclusive interviews with top NYPD brass . Following the death of Civil Rights icon John Lewis , Ushery secured an exclusive interview with long-time friend and former Congressional colleague Charles Rangel , who described marching alongside Lewis from Selma , AL to Montgomery , AL and offered personal insights on their shared work that spanned more than half a century . <p> Passionate about service and helping those in need , Ushery has brought attention to the sacrifice and unique challenges facing local first responders . He has investigated the high rates of suicide among firefighters and placed an important spotlight on the emotional struggles faced throughout their lifetimes . He won a New York Emmy ? for his 2019 profile on 9/11 responder Michael Dorian , who was diagnosed with cancer following his service and later fought a challenging battle to secure the health benefits due to him under the law . Later that year , he conducted one of the last televised interviews with the late NYPD Detective Luis Alvarez , who helped lead the grassroots campaign which resulted in renewal of the federal Victim 's Compensation Fund . Ushery 's work with the first responder community was highlighted in Spike Lee 's 2022 documentary " NYC Epicenters 9/11 ? 2021 ? " <p> Following the big story across the Tri-State and throughout the country , Ushery reported from Houston following the death of former President George H.W. Bush , from Orlando following the deadly Pulse nightclub shooting and the White House for the transition between the outgoing Obama and incoming Trump teams . He covered Pope Francis ' 2015 visit to Washington D.C. and New York City live from the parade routes . Ushery also delivered live coverage following the 2012 Sandy Hook elementary school shooting and the miraculous 2009 landing of US Airways Flight 1549 in the Hudson River . He joined the station in 2003 following a decade at WABC-TV , where he rose from reporter to anchor . <p> Ushery is the recipient of three honorary degrees , earning honors from St. John 's University ( 2014 ) , St. Francis College ( 2018 ) and Fordham University ( 2019 ) . He is actively involved with both the New York Urban League and the Archdiocese of New York , and received numerous awards for community service , including from the Nubian Cultural Center , Consulate of Israel and Public Relations Society of America . He has received the McDonald 's Black Media Legends : Faces of Black History Award and the National Association of Black Journalists Award for his series of reports on children and violence . Ushery has also been named " 40 under 40 " from Network Journal and Black Professionals Business Magazine . <p> A Hartford-area native , Ushery graduated from the University of Connecticut and began his broadcast career at WFSB-TV , where he worked as the lead evening reporter . He also reported for the Hartford Courant and the Los Angeles Times . Ushery was 11 years old when he was selected from a search to host the Connecticut edition of " Kidsworld " , a nationally syndicated television show . One of his first interviews was with news icon Walter Cronkite , considered one of the most trusted men in America at the time . Ushery hosted " Kidsworld " until he was eighteen .
