<h> Tuesday 's meeting will be the first for the families since the IDF last week confirmed that New York-born Omer Neutra was killed on October 7 and Hamas has held his body since . <p> U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan speaks at a press briefing at the White House in Washington , U.S. , October 1 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Annabelle Gordon/File Photo ) <p> National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will be meeting with the families of American hostages on Tuesday afternoon in Washington , DC , before leaving for his trip to Israel , NSC Communications Advisor John Kirby informed reporters during a briefing on Tuesday morning . <p> While Syria is certainly going to be at the top of Sullivan 's agenda with the Israelis , Kirby said without question the most important thing Sullivan is going to want to talk about is how to get a hostage deal in place so the families can get their loved ones home and get the answers they deserve . <p> Kirby reiterated that Sullivan regularly engages with the American hostage families . <p> Tuesday 's meeting will be the first for the families since the IDF last week confirmed that New York-born Omer Neutra was killed on October 7 and Hamas has held his body since . <p> A group representing the American families said in the meeting with Sullivan will be Adi and Yael Alexander , parents of New Jersey native Edan Alexander , who Hamas confirmed to be alive in a video released last weekend ; Ruby Chen , father of Itay Chen , an IDF soldier whose body is also being held by Hamas ; Jonathan Dekel-Chen , father of Sagui Dekel-Chen ; Iris Weinstein Haggai , daughter of Gad Haggai and Judy Weinstein ; and Liz Hirsh Naftali , great-aunt of released American hostage Abigail Mor Edan . Visitors at Hostage Square in Tel Aviv . September 25 , 2024. ( credit : MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <p> While in DC , the families will also be meeting with " allies of President-elect Trump , and members of Congress and their staff , " the group said in a statement . <h> ' An opportunity to get a hostage deal ' <p> " I am not in a position today where I can tell you that we have a deal that is on the brink of completion . That is not where we are , " Kirby said . " But it is fair to say that we are working this extremely hard . We do think there 's an opportunity here to get a hostage deal in place , to get these families reunited , to get a surge of humanitarian assistance into Gaza , but again , there 's an awful lot of work that still has to be done . Hamas continues to be the obstacle to that outcome , but we 're pressing on it really , really hard with that . " <p> Hamas has got to be looking at the world today and realizing that the cavalry is not coming to rescue them , Kirby added , saying one would hope the recent developments in Syria reinforce their increasing isolation for them . <p> Kirby acknowledged that Sullivan is going to talk about the potential for a new hostage deal with the developments of the last few days in the background . <p> " It remains to be seen whether Hamas will move , but they absolutely ought to move because there is nobody coming to their assistance there , " Kirby continued . " They ca n't rely on Hezbollah . They certainly ca n't rely on Iran . This is the time to make a deal . "
