<h> Opinion : Syrians also have Israel to thank for their liberation <p> AP Photo/Hassan Ammar / Syrians celebrate the fall of Syrian President Bashar Assad 's government in the town of Bar Elias , Lebanon , near the border with Syria , Sunday , Dec. 8 , 2024 . <p> Things could still go badly for Syria following the abrupt downfall of Bashar Assad on Saturday and the end of 54 years of ruinous Assad family rule . <p> The Islamist militia that led the revolt , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( Organization for the Liberation of the Levant ) , has old ties to al-Qaida and remains on the U.S. list of designated terrorist organizations , though its leader now disavows terrorism . The experience of post-revolutionary Arab states -- whether in Yemen , Libya , Tunisia or Egypt -- has not been a happy one . <p> Foreign powers , particularly Turkey , may seek to replace Iran 's former dominance in the country with their own . And Syria 's ethnic and sectarian divisions among Alawites , Sunnis , Kurds and Arabs could still prove explosive , with spillover effects in Jordan , Lebanon and other neighbors . <p> Yet this is also a moment of opportunity for a country that has mainly known dictatorship since it became independent in the 1940s . Political prisoners -- including one former pilot who spent 43 years in prison for refusing to bomb the regime 's domestic opponents -- are being freed . Millions of Syrians driven from their homes by 13 years of civil war and repression have a chance to return . <p> The country can also put an end to the quasi-occupation by the foreign military powers that propped up Assad 's rule : Lebanon 's Hezbollah , Iran 's Revolutionary Guard and the Russian military . The sight of Syrians ransacking Iran 's embassy in Damascus , Syria -- with portraits of Hezbollah 's Hassan Nasrallah and the Revolutionary Guard 's Qassem Soleimani torn to shreds -- is evidence of just what Syrians think of the " Axis of Resistance " led by Iran . <p> It 's a good thing that Syrians are the principal agents of their own liberation . But it 's no secret that Assad 's downfall was largely brought about because his allies no longer had the will or wherewithal to defend him . The Russian air force , whose planes smashed Aleppo , Syria , in 2016 , was too enfeebled by losses in Ukraine to do much in Syria . Hezbollah , decimated by Israel 's exploding pagers , airstrikes and ground incursions , could no longer provide Assad with the foot soldiers he once used to starve his people into submission . <p> As for Iran , Israel 's retaliatory strike in late October on key military facilities left it too weakened and exposed to save Assad . Iran is now rapidly withdrawing its once-considerable military presence in Syria . Cut off from this military supply chain , Hezbollah has never been in a more precarious position , giving the Lebanese people their own rare opportunity to bring this terrorist militia to heel and restore their sovereignty after decades of de facto Syrian and Iranian occupation . <p> Victory , as the saying goes , has a thousand fathers . But credit for Syria 's liberation from Assad must also be given for Israel 's courageous decisions to ignore calls for cease-fire and pursue its enemies -- whether in the Gaza Strip ; Beirut ; Hodeida , Yemen ; Damascus ; or Tehran , Iran . Each of these actions was denounced at the time for risking " escalation . " But victory over terrorists and tyrants has a way of paying dividends for the victorious and defeated alike . <p> Let 's hope the next leaders in Syria recognize the debt and finally seek peace , after 76 years of fruitless rejection , with their Jewish neighbor.
