<p> In an interview with Vanity Fair , the Democratic National Committee chair contender calls for a " dramatic upgrade " to the party 's communications strategy , which he believes can be made if Democrats stop letting Republicans tell their story . <p> Ben Wikler speaks during the WisDems 2024 State Convention on June 08 , 2024 in Milwaukee , Wisconsin.by Daniel Boczarski/Getty Images for The Democratic Party of Wisconsin . <p> Over the past five years , Ben Wikler has helped pry Wisconsin from Republican dominance at the state level . Under his leadership as chair of the state party , Democrats have maintained the governorship , made gains in the state legislature , broken conservative control of the state Supreme Court , and undone the rigged maps that seemed -- at one time -- to practically guarantee a GOP stranglehold on the state 's politics . <p> Donald Trump won back the Dairy State this year after losing it in 2020 . But Wikler still counts his state as one of the silver linings for Democrats in a tough election cycle : Though the Republican won out , Kamala Harris won more votes there than Joe Biden did four years earlier . <p> Wikler , 43 , is now running to head the Democratic National Committee -- at a time of low morale , disillusionment with current leadership , and uncertainty as to where it goes from here . How would he lead the Democrats out of the political wilderness ? " We have to do a lot of building , " Wikler told me , in a conversation that has been edited for clarity and length . <p> " This is a time , " he said , " that calls on us to be really clear about what our values are . " <p> Vanity Fair : Trump 's victory , particularly in the popular vote , came as a shock to some who saw a lot of momentum on Harris 's side , including some really encouraging polling , and stumbles by Trump . But Democrats , especially within the Harris campaign , have indicated in some autopsies that the result was n't all that surprising and maybe even was inevitable , given the numbers they were seeing and the headwinds they were facing . What was your reaction on election night ? Were you caught off guard , or did you have a sense that this was where things might be headed ? <p> Ben Wikler : Before the election , reporters asked what kept me up at night . And my answer was always that there might be Trump voters out there who were not in our model and were not in our polling who nonetheless turned out . And that is what happened . Our sense -- in Wisconsin specifically -- was that there was enormous momentum on our side . And that was real . We actually turned out more voters for Harris than we did for Biden . And yet the surge on the GOP side overtopped Harris 's enormous showing . <p> One thing that was striking was that a lot of the more than 50,000 people who turned out for Trump did n't vote in the Senate race , and so we wound up with Tammy Baldwin winning reelection at the same time Trump won our state because of Republicans who did n't fill out the full ballot . And I think that speaks to the impact of having a coordinated campaign in Wisconsin , where we were working to elect Democrats up and down the ticket . <p> I felt , even when the polls closed , that we were gon na win . The first numbers that we saw coming in , where we were adding votes in county after county , felt pretty good . But there were enough additional Trump voters showing up in place after place that we lost by less than one percentage point in Wisconsin . <p> So what went wrong ? Obviously , you do n't lose an election for just one reason . But what do you see as some of the big factors that led to Trump winning -- again , not just the Electoral College , as he did in 2016 , but a narrow popular-vote victory ? <p> What was striking is that we lost even more in places where neither side campaigned than we did in the places where both sides campaigned . And the number that just jumps out and smacks me in the face is that Democrats lost the majority of voters who make less than $50,000 a year for the first time in my lifetime . I think the experience that people have of financial support that they got during the pandemic slipping away , and then prices going up , created -- especially for a lot of working-class voters around the country , across race and ethnicity and geography -- a sense that the economy was n't working for them . And Democrats kept saying the economy was great , so they voted for change . Where Harris did campaign the most , her message that we needed to bring prices down , and support working people , helped to blunt that erosion . But it 's clear that if you put some of the different data side by side , you see the people who felt like they were struggling economically , said they were hurt most by inflation , and were paying the least attention to the news and hearing the least from the campaigns , were the people we lost the most . And that tells us that it 's both the lived economic reality that a lot of these voters experienced and the fact that we were n't communicating in places that actually reach them . <p> So as Democrats , I think one really clear next step is going to the places where these voters actually are making sense of the world around them . That includes a lot of new media sources . That includes thinking more deeply about your friend-to-friend communication ; so much of our country 's attention has shifted from public social media platforms to group chats . It means the new world of YouTube and streaming video and vertical video . And it means digging across all the states for these next four years , because there 's gon na be critical races downballot , like the Wisconsin Supreme Court race this spring , and House seats that Trump has plucked people out of , and then New Jersey and Virginia this fall . We need a strategy in every state that includes both person-to-person organizing and also communicating in a way that shows voters -- working-class voters -- that we are fighting for them and we 're on their side . <p> Is it more of a communication problem , or is there a problem with what is being communicated ? Do you think that there are policies that voters are n't connecting with , or is it simply that voters are n't hearing the message or do n't know what the Democrats are doing ? <p> I mean , a lot of voters are only hearing about Democrats from Republicans , and when that 's the case , they 'll always get the most Republican caricature that Republicans can muster . So there 's a significant challenge to make sure Democrats are telling their own story . <p> We also know that there are a lot of folks who watch the wealth of the ultrawealthy skyrocket that feel like they 're taking it on the chin . And Trump 's about to try to pass a multitrillion-dollar tax cut for the richest people in the world , and Democrats can fight against that and fight for progressive taxation and an economy that works for everyone in a way that makes clear what their values are and whose side Trump is on . And that fight next year could be an analog to the fight against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act , which wound up being a really definitive fight before the 2018 midterms . <p> So when you think about what needs to be done to ensure the viability of the party going forward , do you see it as more of a tweak or more of a major overhaul ? <p> There are things that have worked that we should keep . But we need a dramatic upgrade to be able to communicate everywhere and not cede huge chunks of the country . The Democratic brand is broken , and is a drag to people in many parts of the country . And it 's broken because we have n't built the kind of infrastructure that allows us to communicate at the scale and intensity that can change the brand . So in order to change that , we have to do a lot of building , and that , to me , is the heart of the challenge . We have to be able to convincingly show voters that we 're here to make a difference in their lives , not to pursue some kind of extraneous agenda . <p> I want to ask about Biden 's legacy . This time a year ago , he was obviously struggling in polls and there was anger building over Gaza . But he also had this domestic record to brag about , the Republican opposition that was obstructing a lot of what he wanted to do seemed in utter chaos , and he was also the guy who made Trump a one-term president . But he 's about to hand the reins back to Trump . Republicans have this governing trifecta at the national level . And there 's elements of his record that are facing a lot more scrutiny , even among some Democrats . How do you think we will , and how do you think we should , remember the Biden presidency ? <p> It 's clear that President Biden at every step is fighting to make the biggest change to rebuild the middle class and fight for a better future for the country . This is the chapter of the story that , you know , opens a lot of questions that in some ways we 're going to need the benefit of history and hindsight to have clear answers . So my focus right now is , what do we do in this next chapter ? How do we organize ? How do we fight back and how do we make clear to folks who express their frustration through their votes that we see why they 're frustrated and are the ones fighting for those changes ? <p> On that note , Democrats are looking at two years until they can change the makeup of Congress , four years until they can win back the White House . Until then , how do they approach a second Trump presidency ? What does resistance -- to use a loaded term -- look like in 2024 compared with 2016 ? <p> Most Americans want an economy that works for working people , and they want the fundamental dignity and freedom of each person to be respected and honored by their government . And we know that Trump is about to lurch wildly into far-right , plutocratic attacks on the core values of the country . I think it 's critical to fight back on the basis of our values and fight for working people , and that will mean opposing often multitrillion-dollar tax cuts that Trump wants to push forward . I think that Trump is going to try to cow people into prematurely submitting because of his threats to weaponize the Department of Justice , and appointments like Kash Patel . And I think that this is a time that calls on us to be really clear about what our values are , and to fight for those values in a way that voters can see -- in a way that 's not about Trump , but actually about the voters themselves . Acting with that kind of integrity is both important in terms of the impact directly and also as good politics . <p> So more the case for their values , as opposed to making Trump the focus ? <p> The central focus should be on voters themselves and their lives . The key fights are not about Trump 's latest tweet . They 're about offices that could take away health care for veterans or destroy the security that kids have knowing they 'll be able to have lunch when they go to school . The Trump proposals that undermine the kind of country that most Americans want to live in are the ones that we should bring the most focus and energy to fighting back against . <h> Eric Lutz <h> Contributing Editor <p> Eric Lutz is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair , where he has been covering national affairs since 2018 . He chronicles the chaos of Trump era politics , reporting on the issues , ideas , and personalities driving the day . He has also written for publications like The Guardian and Rolling Stone , and serves ... Read more
