<h> Read the Full Transcript of Donald Trump 's 2024 Person of the Year Interview With TIME <p> President-elect Donald Trump , TIME 's 2024 Person of the Year , sat down for a wide-ranging interview at his Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach , Fla. , on Nov. 25 . <p> Over the course of the interview , Trump discussed his election victory , the economy , and the situations in Ukraine and the Middle East . He also spoke about his plans for a second term , including deporting millions of migrants and pardoning Jan. 6 defendants , as well as the future of the MAGA movement . <p> TIME : You had an extraordinary year . You lived it and you know it . You cleared the field in the Republican campaign . You spent part of your campaign in a courtroom . You were almost shot to death on the trail . Your opponent dropped out , and then you won the swing states , which many people did not expect . What 's one thing that we should know about your experience this year that we do n't know ? <p> TRUMP : Well , I think we ran a flawless campaign . It was , it was really quite something . I called it 72 Days of Fury . There were no days off . There were no timeouts . If you made a mistake , it would be magnified at levels that nobody 's ever seen before . So you could n't make a mistake . And I think we just really ran well . It was a drive to go through it . It started 72 days out . For some reason , it just seemed to be it . And I worked very hard . I 've been , I 've been given credit by , actually , the reporters that followed me , because it was , you know , just , it just was all the time , every day , and we said the right things . We said things that were on the minds of the country . I think the Democrats did n't get it . They just kept going back to the same old nonsense . And it was nonsense , especially in where we are right now . And we hit -- we hit something that was very special . We hit the nerve of the country . They do n't want to see jails emptied out into our country . They do n't want to see people from mental institutions being dismissed from their institutions . <p> Mr. President , what did the Democrats not get ? You just said " they did n't get it . " What did you mean by that ? <p> I do n't think they got the feel of the country . The country was angry because of immigration , because of the people , you know , millions and millions of people . I was saying it could be 21 million people . They were saying a much lesser number , but it was n't a much lesser number . But even if it was , it was irrelevant , because it was -- they were allowing anybody to come into our country . They are right now . They opened it up again . You see what 's going on ? They 're coming . They 're pouring up through Mexico and other places . And they were n't using common sense . I said , We 've become the party of common sense . As an example , they really do n't want to see men playing in women 's sports . You can have a -- and this is one : They do n't want to see , as another example , open borders . They want to see people come in . Everyone 's okay with it , and I am certainly . I want to have a lot of people coming , because we 're going to , we 're going to bring back a lot of jobs . We 'll bring record numbers of jobs , and we 'll do it through good taxing policy , and , you know , using some basic business intelligence . But we 're going to bring back record jobs . Record companies are going to come into our country . They 're not going to be able to be able to steal our companies anymore . And I talked about that , but I differed , maybe , perhaps , from you people , I thought the economy was a big factor , especially the real economy , which is the economy of going out and buying groceries or buying a car or buying a house , which was , you know , between interest rates and between costs -- as an example , the cost of a house is -- a big chunk of the cost of the house is just the approval process and the regulations . <p> The economy was certainly a big factor in your victory -- <p> But what was a bigger factor , I believe , was the border . I think the border and , you know , I won it in 2016 on the border , and I fixed the border , and it was really fixed , and they came in and they just dislodged everything that I did , and it became far worse than it was in 2016 -- <p> I want to come back to immigration a little bit later . Let 's start out on what 's happening right now . You were elected on a promise to change Washington . By all accounts , the fight over that has already begun . One of your nominees was effectively blocked by the Senate . There are other senators who have expressed doubts about some of your other nominees . What are you going to do if the Senate continues to balk at your choices for these key cabinet positions ? <p> Well , I do n't think they will . And he was n't blocked . I had the votes if I needed them , but I had to work very hard . And you know , I 'm not -- there were numerous hard no 's , all of whom agreed with me to do it . <p> So you decided to give up on Gaetz ? <p> No , I did n't give up on him . I talked to him , and I said , you know , Matt , I do n't think this is worth the fight . I had the -- he was there when I convinced five people to go that were hard no 's , but we want to speak to the President . And the beauty is that we won by so much . The mandate was massive . Somebody had 129 years in terms of the overall mandate . That 's a lot of years , but people respected that . As an example , many places were thinking that they could go down and they could riot , make trouble , protest , on the election night . You know what happened ? When the numbers started coming in , everyone just left . They left . I mean , you see signs of it , Washington , DC , where people were gathered . <p> Did I hear you say that you met in person with Gaetz and the five hard-no Senators ? <p> Not with the senators there . No , I called the senators , and my relationship with the Senate is very good . Many of them I endorsed . Many of them I got elected . If I did n't get involved in those races , those Senators would have lost . We would n't have the majority . <p> Mr. President , will you use recess appointments to fill vacancies if you ca n't get them through ? <p> I really do n't care how they get them approved , as long as they get them approved . <p> So you might do it ? <p> It 's up to the Senate . But I think I have a very good relationship with Senator Thune and the others , all of them . I think almost , almost everybody , many of them I was very instrumental in getting , if not this season , last season , the season before that , I would say more than half . <p> Will you commit to honoring the Senate 's authority to reject or confirm your nominees ? <p> Well , sure , I want them to do that . I think -- I do n't think there are too many . I do n't think that -- look , everybody has , that 's why they have menus in restaurants . You have different choices . Some people love certain candidates . I 'll tell you , I put up some that I thought would be a little more controversial , and they turned out not to be necessarily the ones that are controversial . <p> One of them who is controversial , who I just want to ask you a quick question about , is RFK Jr , who is a noted vaccine skeptic . If he moves to end childhood vaccination programs , would you sign off on that ? <p> No , I 'm going to be listening to Bobby , who I 've really gotten along with great and I have a lot of respect for having to do with food , having to do with vaccinations . He does not disagree with vaccinations , all vaccinations . He disagrees probably with some . But we 'll have it . We 're going to do what 's good for the country . <p> So that could include getting rid of some vaccinations ? <p> It could if I think it 's dangerous , if I think they are not beneficial , but I do n't think it 's going to be very controversial in the end . <p> Do you agree with him about the connection between vaccines and autism ? <p> I want to see the numbers . It 's going to be the numbers . We will be able to do -- I think you 're going to feel very good about it at the end . We 're going to be able to do very serious testing , and we 'll see the numbers . A lot of people think a lot of different things . And at the end of the studies that we 're doing , and we 're going all out , we 're going to know what 's good and what 's not good . We will know for sure what 's good and what 's not good . <p> Mr. President , some foreign officials have expressed concern about sharing intelligence with Tulsi Gabbard , given her positions in support of Russia and Syria . Would her confirmation be worth the price of some of our allies not sharing intelligence with us ? <p> I 'm surprised to hear it , because I think she 's , like , a really great American . Hey , look , they said I was friendly with Russia until they saw the tapes , and then they said , you know , he 's not actually . He was the one that ended the Russian pipeline , Nord Stream 2 . He was the one that put all the sanctions on Russia . And I get along with Russia . I get along with a lot of people that people would think I would n't get along with , but we get our way because I 'm for this country , I 'm not for other countries . By the way , do you want hors d'Oevres or anything ? <p> No , that 's generous , thank you . <p> You sure ? <p> Yes , but thank you . If you learn that foreign officials are withholding intelligence because she is the head of your intelligence , would that change your calculus ? <p> I do n't know . I 'm surprised to hear it . I heard that the first time the other day . I mean , I think she 's a great American . I think she 's a person with tremendous common sense . I 've watched her for years , and she has nothing to do with Russia . This is another , you know , a mini Russia , Russia , Russia scam . I think probably , if that 's what 's happening . No , I do n't see it . Certainly , if something can be shown to me . <p> During the campaign , you disavowed Project 2025 , but so far at least five people you 've appointed to top positions in your cabinet have ties to it . Does n't that undermine what you told Americans on the campaign trail ? <p> No look , I do n't -- I do n't disagree with everything in Project 2025 , but I disagree with some things . I specifically did n't want to read it because it was n't under my auspices , and I wanted to be able to say that , you know , the only way I can say I have nothing to do with it is if you do n't read it . I do n't want -- I did n't want to read it . I read enough about it . They have some things that are very conservative and very good . They have other things that I do n't like . I wo n't go into individual items , but I had nothing to do with Project 2025 . Now , if we had a few people that were involved , they had hundreds of them . This is a big document , from what I understand . <p> More than 800 pages . <p> It 's a lot of pages . That 's a lot of pages . I thought it was inappropriate that they came out with it just before the election , to be honest with you . <p> Really ? <p> I let them know , yeah , I did n't think it was appropriate , because it 's not me . Why would they do that ? They complicated my election by doing it because people tried to tie me and I did n't agree with everything in there , and some things I vehemently disagreed with , and I thought it was inappropriate that they would come out with a document like that prior to my election . <p> Did you express those frustrations with them ? <p> Oh I did . It was n't a frustration , it was a fact . It 's totally inappropriate . They come up with an 800-page document , and the enemy , which is , you know , the other party , is allowed to go through and pick out two items , 12 items out of , you know , 800 . No , I thought it was an open -- I thought it was a very foolish thing for them to do . <p> I understand , sir . <p> These are people that would like to see me win . And yet , they came out with this document , and they had some pretty ridiculous things in there . They also had some very good things in there . <p> I understand , sir . Let 's shift to a topic that I know you care quite a bit about : immigration . You recently said on Truth Social that you plan to use the military to deport migrants . The Posse Comitatus Act prohibits the use of the military for domestic law enforcement . What will you do if the military does not or refuses to carry out your orders ? <p> Well , it does n't , it does n't stop the military if it 's an invasion of our country , and I consider it an invasion of our country . We have criminals coming into our countries that we 've never seen , we 've never seen before . We have people coming in at levels and at record numbers that we 've never seen before . And I 'll only do what the law allows , but I will go up to the maximum level of what the law allows . And I think in many cases , the sheriffs and law enforcement is going to need help . We 'll also get National Guard . We 'll get National Guard , and we 'll go as far as I 'm allowed to go , according to the laws of our country . <p> If you ca n't negotiate agreements with the receiving governments , and none seem receptive , will you of necessity have to hold these detained migrants in camps ? <p> I 'll get them into every country , I 'll get them into every country , or we wo n't do business with those countries . <p> So you 're saying there wo n't be new camps , more camps to hold detained migrants ? <p> Well , there might be . Whatever it takes to get them out . I do n't care . Honestly , whatever it takes to get them out . Again , I 'll do it absolutely within the confines of the law , but if it needs new camps , but I hope we 're not going to need too many because I want to get them out , and I do n't want them sitting in camp for the next 20 years . I want them out , and the countries have got to take them back , and if they do n't take them back , we wo n't do business with those countries , and we will tariff those countries very substantially . When they send products in , they will have substantial tariffs , and it 's going to make it very hard for them to do business with us . <p> A question on the minds of a lot of Americans : Will you restore your policy of separating families ? <p> Many of the people who voted for you , as you mentioned a moment ago , cited high prices , particularly of food and groceries . If you deport millions of migrant agricultural workers , wo n't the price of food rise sharply ? <p> No , because we 're going to let people in , but we have to let them in legally . We do n't want people to come in from jails . We do n't want the jails of Venezuela and many other countries , and not just South American countries . We do n't want the jails to be opened up into our country . We 're not accepting their prisoners . We 're not accepting their murders . We 're not accepting their people from mental institutions . We 're not doing it . <p> Your transition co-chair Howard Lutnick said your appointees would be vetted for loyalty . Are you going to ask your appointees to take a loyalty pledge ? <p> I do n't think I 'll have to . I think I will know who -- I mean , look , all you can do is feel comfortable with people . There 's always disloyal people , and every President 's had them . I 've had them , and every President has had them . But no , I think , I think I will be able to , for the most part , determine who 's loyal . I want them to be loyal as to policy , as to the country . It 's got ta be loyal . <p> If they do n't follow your orders , will you fire them ? <p> If I think it 's appropriate , I 'd fire them . <p> Does that go for civil servants as well , Mr. President , who work in the executive branch but are n't appointees ? <p> Well , it depends . We have some interesting things happening in rules and regulations , but we 're going to see . But sure , if I 'm allowed to do that , I would do that . If they 're not following my policies , absolutely . <p> You 've put Elon Musk in charge of DOGE , giving him the power to -- <p> Along with -- <p> Along with Vivek Ramaswamy , yes , absolutely . But on Musk specifically , giving him the power to oversee the agencies that regulate his companies . Is n't that a conflict of interest ? <p> I do n't think so . Look , we have a country that is bloated with rules , regulations and with , frankly , people that are unnecessary to do . We are going to need a lot of people in a lot of other jobs . We 're looking to get people into private sector jobs where they can do better and be more productive . We 're going to see what happens . We have some interesting months coming up , at the beginning . We 're going to see what happens . But this country is bloated . <p> I think everybody agrees that there 's waste in the federal government -- <p> Waste , fraud , and abuse . <p> But Elon Musk is talking about cuts that would directly affect NASA , which would then directly affect SpaceX , his company . Is n't that the textbook definition of a conflict of interest ? <p> I think that Elon puts the country long before his company . I mean , he 's in a lot of companies , but he really is , and I 've seen it . He considers this to be his most important project , and he wanted to do it . And , you know , I think , I think he 's one of the very few people that would have the credibility to do it , but he puts the country before , and I 've seen it , before he puts his company . <p> Well , ultimately , Congress controls spending . Would you veto a budget or appropriations that does not comply with the Musk-Ramaswamy Commission , DOGE ? <p> I might . But there are many things you can do without Congress . When it comes to cutting , harder to get , but to cut , you can do a lot of things without Congress . <p> What do you plan to do ? <p> I mean , I 'll give you an example . We want to move the schools back to the states . We want to , you know , we 're at the bottom of every list in terms of education , and we 're at the top of the list in terms of the cost per pupil , and we want to move them back to the states , and we 'll spend half the money on a much better product . We 'll get -- I believe we can compete with Norway and Denmark and Finland and other countries . And I will tell you , China is right at the top of the list too . Most lists . <p> What does moving back to the states mean ? Does that mean closing the Education Department ? <p> A virtual closure of Department of Education in Washington . <p> Virtual closure ? <p> Well , you 're going to need some people just to make sure they 're teaching English in the schools . Okay , you know English and mathematics , let 's say . But we want to move education back to the states . If you look at the states , if you look at some of the individual countries , Norway is a very strong educational country , but many . I think Iowa , and I think Indiana , and a lot of these states that are well-run states . We have a lot of them that are very well run . When they run their own educational program , I think it 's going to , I think they 'll be able to compete with anybody . Then you 're going to have the badly run states , like a guy like Gavin Newscum sic in California , where he does a poor job , and he 'll , but even in California , you 'll give it to Riverside . You 'll give it , you know , you 'll give it to areas of California where I think they 'll run a great school program . <p> Last question on your transition , why have you declined to sign the ethics agreement as part of -- <p> I do n't know anything about it . <p> The ethics document . <p> I do n't know . I would sign an ethics document . <p> Will you disclose who the donors are to your transition ? <p> To my campaign ? <p> No -- to paying for the transition . <p> Taylor Budowich : There will be an announcement on that this week . <p> I really , I have no problem disclosing anything . <p> That 's great , Mr. President . <p> Just so you know . I had heard this a couple of days ago . I have no problem . I 'd rather disclose it right up front . I have no problem with it . <p> I 've got a question for you about the campaign . Was there a moment when you thought you might lose ? <p> I like not to think of that . The power of positive thinking , right ? But there were some moments when , you know , there was , there was some bad things done in the campaign . There were a lot of fake polls . They were absolutely fake . Look at an example , a very good pollster was in Iowa , and I thought I was winning at the end . But it was n't like she was a bad -- she was great . For years , she was the best . She was the gold standard in Iowa . And then a couple of weeks before the election , she had me up four , and that brought it down way below the 18 or 19 that we thought we were , we were up with 18 or 19 points , which is , you know what I get , the farmers like me , but she did it in gradual steps . She did it up four . That was a big story , because I was only up four and then she did where I was down three , and that became headlines all over the place just before the election . <p> By the way , I 'm just using that as an example . I did n't think I was going to lose . I thought it was a dishonest poll , and we 're going to probably prove that because , you know , we 're taking people to court because we think , I think , we have an obligation to . When 60 minutes interviews my opponent , and that 's a news program , that 's their most important news program , and she gave a really horrible answer . That was a bad answer . And they took that answer and replaced it , and this is her speaking , and they replaced it with another answer from a half an hour later in the interview that had nothing to do , but it was a much better answer . That 's really dishonest . <p> Speaking of Kamala Harris . What do you think were her worst mistakes in the campaign ? <p> Taking the assignment . Number one , because you have to know what you 're good at . <p> Did she make any tactical mistakes you think that cost her ? <p> I think that when she would n't talk to anybody , it shone a light on her . In other words , if she would have gone out and just did interviews where they 're comparable to Steve , if there is anybody comparable , would say , could you do an interview here ? An interview there ? You know , she did n't do anything . And people said , Is there something wrong with her ? Why would they ? I mean , I 'm doing this interview with you . I did interviews with , if I had the time , anybody that would ask , I 'd do interviews . I think the Joe Rogan interview , you know , that went on for almost three and a half hours . <p> I watched the whole thing , sir , yes . <p> Oh good , I hope you liked it . But I found it to be a pleasure to do it , you know . He was an interesting guy . I wish I could have even done it longer . I had a rally that I was two and a half hours late for in Michigan . It was very cold . And , you know , we did n't lose anybody . But I explained to him , Listen , I just did an interview . We got to win this thing and -- but I was two and a half hours late . I did n't know it was going to be three . I thought it was going to be an hour or something . <p> You had to wrap it up at the end . <p> I had to say , listen , I have a rally where you have thousands of people that are standing . I think one of the big advantages I had is the rallies . I think , you know , nobody else gets the people we had . We had the biggest rallies . Nobody 's ever seen rallies like that , and they were enthusiastic rallies . And when you see that , and then somebody else comes to town the following day , and they have a few hundred people , you would say , you have a big advantage . But , but it 's an interesting question when you ask about her . I think they made a big tactical mistake by literally not talking to the press , even if a really friendly , I mean , and they had almost all friendly , somebody would come up with a really friendly -- like you guys , maybe -- but a friendly interview , and they turned everybody down . They would n't do the basic . And people , including me , would start to say , is there something wrong with her ? What 's wrong ? Why would n't you do some basic interviews ? And then she had some pretty failed interviews , and maybe it was highlighted more than it would . In other words , if she did those same interviews , but she did another 15 interviews , you know , you would n't have really noticed it that much . <p> The bad ones would have been drained out . <p> She put so much emphasis on interviews . Somebody thought there was something wrong , and I do n't think she ever recovered from that . <p> I 'm going to shift to foreign policy . Have you spoken to Vladimir Putin since your election ? <p> I ca n't tell you . I ca n't tell you . It 's just inappropriate . <p> If Ukraine does n't agree to a peace deal that you have said you will broker , will you cut military , humanitarian , and intelligence assistance to them ? <p> The reason that I do n't like to tell you this is that , as a negotiator , when I sit down and talk to some very brilliant young people : young , young , young , young . Compared to me , you 're very young . But when I talk to people -- when I start I think I have a very good plan to help , but when I start exposing that plan , it becomes almost a worthless plan . <p> Will you commit to protecting Ukrainian sovereignty , though , from Russia ? <p> I would like to see Ukraine -- okay , ready ? You have to go back a little bit further . It would have never happened if I were president . Would have never happened -- <p> But it has happened . So the question people want to know is , Would you abandon Ukraine ? <p> It makes it so bad . And I had a meeting recently with a group of people from the government , where they come in and brief me , and I 'm not speaking out of turn , the numbers of dead soldiers that have been killed in the last month are numbers that are staggering , both Russians and Ukrainians , and the amounts are fairly equal . You know , I know they like to say they were n't , but they 're fairly equal , but the numbers of dead young soldiers lying on fields all over the place are staggering . It 's crazy what 's taking place . It 's crazy . I disagree very vehemently with sending missiles hundreds of miles into Russia . Why are we doing that ? We 're just escalating this war and making it worse . That should not have been allowed to be done . Now they 're doing not only missiles , but they 're doing other types of weapons . And I think that 's a very big mistake , very big mistake . But the level , the number of people dying is number one , not sustainable , and I 'm talking on both sides . It 's really an advantage to both sides to get this thing done . <p> The question that many Americans and many people around the world have is , Will you abandon Ukraine ? <p> I want to reach an agreement , and the only way you 're going to reach an agreement is not to abandon . You understand what that means , right ? <p> Right . Well , no , tell me . <p> Well , I just said it . You ca n't reach an agreement if you abandon , in my opinion . And I disagree with the whole thing , because it should have never happened . Putin would have never invaded Ukraine if I were president for numerous reasons . Number one , they drove up the oil price . When they drove up the oil price , they made it a profit-making situation for him , the oil price should have been driven down . If it was driven down , you would n't have had it would n't have started just for pure economic reasons . But when it hits $80 , $85 , and $90 a barrel . I mean , he made , he made a lot of money . I 'm not saying it 's a good thing , because he 's also suffered , but they are moving forward . You know , this is a war that 's been -- this is a tragedy . This is death that 's far greater than anyone knows . When the real numbers come out , you 're going to see numbers that you 're not going to believe . <p> Well , another war with a high death toll is happening in the Middle East . You reportedly told Prime Minister Netanyahu that you wanted him to end the war in Gaza before you took office . What did he say ? <p> I think that , before I talk about that , I think that the Middle East is an easier problem to handle than what 's happening with Russia and Ukraine . Okay , I just want to say that up front . The Middle East is going to get solved . The Middle East has been -- it 's a horrible thing . October 7 was a horrible thing . Everyone is forgetting conveniently about October 7 , but that was a horrible day for the world , not for Israel , for the world . And I think the Middle East is going to get -- as we speak , things are happening very productively on the Middle East . I think the Middle East is going to get solved . I think it 's more complicated than the Russia-Ukraine , but I think it 's , it 's , it 's easier to solve . <p> Did Netanyahu give you assurances about when he would end the war ? <p> Um , I do n't want to say that , but I think he feels confident that -- I think he feels very confident in me , and I think he knows I want it to end . I want everything to end . I want , I do n't want people killed , you know ? I do n't want people from either side killed , and that includes whether it 's Russia , Ukraine , or whether it 's the Palestinians and the Israelis and all of the , you know , the different entities that we have in the Middle East . There 's so many different entities . But I do n't want people killed . <p> When you say productive things are happening , can you be more specific ? <p> No , I ca n't . I mean , I 'd love to be , I would so love to be , but I ca n't . I will be . We 're going to sit down in a period of time , hopefully soon , and I 'll tell you all the things that are happening . But there are some very productive things happening . I do think -- okay , because I 'm looking at two , two primary fronts , right ? You have the Russia-Ukraine , and you have this , and there are other problems also . But look , when North Korea gets involved , that 's another element that 's a very complicating factor . And I know Kim Jong Un , I get along very well with Kim Jong Un . I 'm probably the only one he 's ever really dealt with . When you think about it , I am the only one he 's ever dealt with . But you have a lot of very bad complicating factors there , but we 'll sit down and we 'll at the end of each of these , or both , maybe simultaneously , we 'll sit down and I 'll show you what a good job I did . <p> You mentioned the Palestinian people . In your first term , your administration put forward the most comprehensive plan for a two-state solution in a long time . Do you still support that plan ? <p> I support a plan of peace , and it can take different forms . When I did the Abraham Accords , that should have been loaded up with people , you know . I made a statement . I think they did n't add one country . Think of it . They did n't add one country to the Abraham Accords . We had the four countries , very important countries , but that should have been loaded up with Middle Eastern countries . <p> Do you still support a two-state solution ? <p> I support whatever solution we can do to get peace . There are other ideas other than two state , but I support whatever , whatever is necessary to get not just peace , a lasting peace . It ca n't go on where every five years you end up in tragedy . There are other alternatives . <p> Your incoming ambassador to Israel , Mike Huckabee , supports the settlement movement and Israel annexing the West Bank . The real question at the heart of this , sir , is , do you want to get a two-state deal done , outlined in your Peace to Prosperity deal that you put forward , or are you willing to let Israel annex the West Bank ? <p> So what I want is a deal where there 's going to be peace and where the killing stops . <p> Would you tell Israel -- Bibi tried last time and you stopped him . Would you do it again this time ? <p> We 'll see what happens . Yeah , I did . I stopped him . But we 'll see what happens . October 7 was a very terrible day . You know , October 7 . People are forgetting about it . They do n't ever mention . It was a tragic day . The other thing that 's happening are the hostages , where are the hostages , why are n't they back ? Well , they could be gone . They could be gone . I think Hamas is probably saying , Wow , the hostages are gone . That 's what they want . <p> So there 's a scenario where you would allow Israel to annex the West Bank ? <p> I will -- what I 'm doing and what I 'm saying again , I 'll say it again , I want a long lasting peace . I 'm not saying that 's a very likely scenario , but I want a long lasting peace , a peace where we do n't have an October 7 in another three years . And there are numerous ways you can do it . You can do it two state , but there are numerous ways it can be done . And I 'd like to see , who can be happy ? But I 'd like to see everybody be happy . Everybody go about their lives , and people stop from dying . That includes on many different fronts . I mean , we have some tremendous world problems that we did n't have when I was president . You know , when I left , we had , we had an Iran that was not very threatening . They had no money . They were n't giving money to Hamas . They were n't giving money to Hezbollah . <p> Iran recently plotted to have you assassinated . What are the chances of going to war with Iran during your next term ? <p> Anything can happen . Anything can happen . It 's a very volatile situation . I think the most dangerous thing right now is what 's happening , where Zelensky has decided , with the approval of , I assume , the President , to start shooting missiles into Russia . I think that 's a major escalation . I think it 's a foolish decision . But I would imagine people are waiting until I get in before anything happens . I would imagine . I think that would be very smart to do that . <p> Do you trust Netanyahu ? <p> I do n't trust anybody . <p> Can I ask , Did Elon Musk meet with the Iranians at your behest ? <p> I do n't know that he met with them . <p> Reportedly he met with the Iranians . <p> I do n't know . He did n't tell me that . <p> Let 's shift back to some domestic issues . Will you vow that your FDA will not do anything to limit access to medication abortion or abortion pills ? <p> Well , we 're going to take a look at all of that . That 's why I 'm here . We 're going to take a look at all of that . <p> So it 's possible they may ? <p> You 're talking about the abortion pill ? <p> I 'm talking about the abortion pill . FDA approvals -- <p> It 's unlikely , very unlikely . <p> But possible ? If they tried to , would you stop them ? <p> You know my stance from a long campaign . A long and hard campaign . I was against that . I was against that . Strongly against . <p> Can you be specific ? Strongly against ? <p> Strongly against . You 're talking about the abortion pill . <p> You 're against the abortion pill ? <p> No , I was against stopping it . <p> Right . Okay , just to clarify . <p> So I do n't see any reason why it changed , but somebody could come up with something that , you know , this horrible thing . <p> You wo n't rule it out , though ? <p> Look , I 've stated it very clearly and I just stated it again very clearly . I think it would be highly unlikely . I ca n't imagine , but with , you know , we 're looking at everything , but highly unlikely . I guess I could say probably as close to ruling it out as possible , but I do n't want to . I do n't want to do anything now . I want to do it at some point . There will be a time in the future where people are going to know everything about subjects like that , which are very complex subjects for people , because you have other people that , you know , they feel strongly both ways , really strongly both ways , and those are the things that are dividing up the country . But you know my stand from a very long , hard thing , and I think it 's highly unlikely that I ever change that . Is it 100% unlikely that I change or that I stay -- <p> I think what the women of America want to know is , Are you committed to making sure that the FDA does not strip their ability to access abortion pills ? <p> That would be my commitment . Yeah , it 's always been my commitment . <p> Can I shift to the transgender issue ? Obviously , sort of a major issue during the campaign . In 2016 , you said that transgender people could use whatever bathroom they chose . Do you still feel that way ? <p> When was that ? <p> In 2016 . <p> I do n't want to get into the bathroom issue . Because it 's a very small number of people we 're talking about , and it 's ripped apart our country , so they 'll have to settle whatever the law finally agrees . I am a big believer in the Supreme Court , and I 'm going to go by their rulings , and so far , I think their rulings have been rulings that people are going along with , but we 're talking about a very small number of people , and we 're talking about it , and it gets massive coverage , and it 's not a lot of people . <p> But on that note , there 's a big fight on this in Congress now . The incoming trans member from Delaware , Sarah McBride , says we should all be focused on more important issues . Do you agree ? <p> I do agree with that . On that -- absolutely . As I was saying , it 's a small number of people . <p> It was a big issue , though , on the campaign . I mean , one of the ads that your campaign put the most money behind was the : Trump is for us and Harris is for they / them . <p> Well , it 's true , Trump is for us . <p> Right . It obviously strikes a chord . <p> I mean , Trump is definitely for us , okay ? And us is the vast , vast majority of people in this country . And also , I want to have all people treated fairly . You know , forget about majority or not majority . I want people to be treated well and fairly . <p> I 'm going to look at it very closely . We 're looking at it right now . We 're gon na look at it . We 're gon na look at everything . Look , the country is torn apart . We 're gon na look at everything . <p> Do you plan to fire your hand-picked FBI director , Christopher Wray ? <p> I 'll be announcing something in the future . I 'm looking at people , and we 'll make a decision in the not-too-distant future . <p> Are you considering Kash Patel as a replacement ? <p> Yes , I am . One of the people , yeah . <p> Editor 's note : On Nov. 30 , Trump announced he intends to nominate Patel to be FBI director . <p> Have you decided yet whether you 're going to pardon all of the January 6 defendants ? <p> Yes . <p> You 're going to do all of them ? <p> I 'm going to do case-by-case , and if they were non-violent , I think they 've been greatly punished . And the answer is I will be doing that , yeah , I 'm going to look if there 's some that really were out of control . <p> So you will not include those who committed violent acts ? <p> Well , we 're going to look at each individual case , and we 're going to do it very quickly , and it 's going to start in the first hour that I get into office . And a vast majority of them should not be in jail . A vast majority should not be in jail , and they 've suffered gravely . And I say , why is it that in Portland and in many other places , Minneapolis , why is it that nothing happened with them and they actually caused death and destruction at levels not seen before ? So you know , if you take a look at what happened in Seattle , you had people die , you had a lot of death , and nothing happened , and these people have been treated really , really badly . Yeah , it 's an important issue for me . They 've suffered greatly , and in many cases they should not have suffered . <p> We 're sitting here moments after Jack Smith dropped the case against you . Over the course of the campaign , you vowed to or suggested prosecuting a long list of political rivals , whether it 's Joe Biden , Nancy Pelosi , Jack Smith , Alvin Bragg , Adam Schiff , Mark Milley . Did you raise these prosecutions of these people with Pam Bondi ? <p> No . <p> You have n't spoken to her about it ? <p> No . <p> How do you expect her to proceed ? <p> I think she 's going to be fair to everybody . She 's very respected . She 's a very , very smart and even brilliant person . She was a successful at the highest level Attorney General -- <p> Are there going to be investigations of these subjects , of these people ? <p> That 's up to her . That 'll be up to her . <p> Steven Cheung : We 're coming up on 45 minutes . <p> Is there anything positive we can talk about ? <p> Actually we do , but it 's a complicated world . Let 's do some rapid fire questions -- <p> I did win the greatest election that a lot of people say we had in hundreds of years . <p> Well , here 's something we can talk about . The GOP will have full control of Congress . You 're gon na have a governing trifecta after you won . What are your first priorities in Congress ? <p> Well , my first priorities are , I do n't really need Congress for it , frankly , securing the border and drilling for oil . <p> Are you going to push for any major legislation in your first year in office ? <p> Yeah , sure . <p> What will that be ? <p> Well , we have to extend the tax cuts , very importantly . I think it 's a very important thing , but , and our Secretary of Treasury has been really well received , as you see by the stock market , et cetera , but very important , we have to extend the tax cuts . But you know , a lot of the things when , when the Democrats were saying , you know , they need Congress to secure the border . They do n't need Congress . All you have to do is say , I want the border secured . I had the most secure border we 've ever had , and I never had to go to Congress for it . <p> Do you think Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito should resign in the next two years so you can appoint younger successors ? <p> I think they 're incredible , actually . So that 's up to them , but I think they 're incredible . I think they 've been great justices . <p> Everyone across the political spectrum recognizes the nature of your comeback , the historical nature of comeback , your resilience . What do you understand about the American psyche that your opponents do not ? <p> See , I do n't view it as a comeback . And people have said it was the greatest comeback in political history , and beyond even political history plus . They said , add sports and add everything else . But I do n't view it that way . I think I ran a great campaign . I think I was popular . I think I did a very good job the first term . We got hit by COVID at the end . But even with COVID , we did a very , very good job that people are starting to recognize . But you take a look at those first few years , we 've never had an economy even even close to that . So I do n't , I do n't view it as a comeback . I know it 's considered that . I should allow it to be that , and I will allow it to be that . But , you know , come back from what ? I 've always been here , you know . <p> I think more the point that sort of the question was driving at is , you know , you 've won twice now . <p> Right . <p> You 've realigned both political parties , you 've changed America . There 's got to be something that you understand about winning votes or the American people that your opponents maybe do n't give you credit for . And I guess I 'm curious what that is . <p> It 's , you know , I think people want to lead a good life . I think they want to be able to buy groceries at a reasonable price and not have to turn off their heat in order to buy two apples . I think that , I think that people want security . I do n't think people want to have our borders rushed by -- it 's really an invasion of our country by foreign countries , and not just South America . I mean , these are countries all over the world . It 's really , I think our people want common sense applied to their life , and they do n't want to see a girl be beat up in a boxing ring by a man , as happens . They do n't want to see somebody in a weight lifting contest , a woman against a man . It makes no sense . They do n't want to see , you know , men playing in women 's sports . They do n't . They do n't want to see all of this transgender , which is , it 's just taken over . And then you take a look , and not very many years after the person who went through this process is saying , Who did this to me ? As you know , it 's a very high percentage . I really think that the people of this country have tremendous hearts . They understand and they want common sense applied to their lives . Most of the things I talk about are common sense . They do n't want to see their food prices go up by 57% in a short period of time . And I think that 's why I won . I think -- I think that 's why I won . The Republican Party has become the party of common sense , and it 's so many of the things I mentioned , and other things too . They do n't want to have all electric cars . They might want an electric car . Electric cars are great , but they 're not for everybody . They also want gasoline-powered cars or hybrids or anything else that happens to come out . They do n't want to have a mandate on cars where they 're forced to buy a car that they do n't want . There are so many things . I mean , they 're too innumerable . There 's too many to mention . I could go on all day long giving you crazy , crazy stats -- <p> But your appeal pre-exists a lot of this stuff -- <p> Yeah , Eric , but in the end , they want to see our country run with common sense . They do n't want to be invaded by 100 and 182 at this moment . We 've had during the course of the last three years -- 182 , people do n't realize how many countries there are . There are a lot of countries , 182 is not even close to the number , okay , but we had 182 countries where people invaded our country , essentially invaded our country . We do n't know who they are , we do n't know where they are . We do n't know anything about them . They just walk into our country and they take over . You see what 's happening with the Venezuelan gangs . They 're in all -- they 're in many different states . They 're in like 12 states as of this moment , and they are causing tremendous havoc and violence . People do n't want that . <p> I know that obviously you 're only about to enter office , but I 'm sort of curious about kind of the legacy component . Lindsey Graham says Trump 's policies do n't work without Trump . You said that you believe in some ways that 's true . If that 's the case , how does MAGA endure as a political movement after you leave office in four years ? <p> Well , my policies -- I heard that statement . I thought it was actually a very interesting statement . We can use the same words , but maybe it 's a look in your eye that works . You know , for a country like Mexico , we 're not going to allow Mexico to continue to invade our country by allowing people to be dropped off in Mexico and come into the United States . We 're not going to allow that to happen . And I will say it to Mexico one way , and somebody will say the same thing to Mexico another way , and maybe my way is accepted , and somebody else , with the same words , it 's not accepted . So I sort of agree with him , but there are others that maybe can do it , maybe they ca n't do it as well , but my policies work . I mean , my policies work . We have to be -- what 's happening with the people coming through Mexico and Canada also , you know , we ca n't forget Canada . We have tremendous illegal immigration coming in through Canada . Drugs are coming in through Canada in large numbers . We 're not going to allow that to happen . And I 'll take action against Canada and Mexico . We 're not going to allow this to happen . <p> You have galvanized a social and political movement that has transformed this country . What do you think will happen to the MAGA movement when you leave office or when you are no longer on the scene ? <p> Well , I hope when I leave office , I 'll be able to also leave people that are extremely competent and get it . And we do have those people . We have far more than you think . We have some great warriors . We have some great people that want to see this country take care of -- <p> Do those people include members of your family ? <p> Say it . <p> Do those people include members of your family ? <p> I think , yeah , I have some very competent members of my family . My kids are very competent . I do n't know that they 're going to choose to go through this . They 've been treated very badly . I mean , my son Don has spent hours and hours in front of , essentially , grand juries and Congress over something he never had anything to do with : Russia . He 'd come back and say , " Dad , I have nothing to do with Russia . " He did n't know anything about Russia , and it would turn out to be a hoax . <p> He 's very politically active . <p> He is . <p> Do you think he might have a future in politics ? <p> I think he 'd do well , especially in certain areas . I think he 'd do very well . I think he 's a very capable guy . Eric is very capable , and a very different type . Lara . You look at some of these people . Ivanka would be , if she wanted to be , would be a superstar in politics . I think she , she , she 's a great person . I think she probably , she 's so family-oriented , Ivanka , and I understand that also it makes it more difficult . It makes it definitely more difficult . But , you know , they 're very capable people . Well , they have a name , which seems to be a very good name . <p> Do you think there will be a Trump dynasty ? <p> I think there could be , yeah . I see the people we 're talking about . Lara has been amazing . Look , she was the head of the Republican Party . She 's a young , a young woman , and she was the head of the Republican Party . And look at the job we did . This cheating would have been breathtaking , breathtaking . And we , we , we got it down to a minimum . And they cheat , but we got it down to a minimum . They were very effective . The RNC was very , very effective . <p> What would your father think of your political comeback ? <p> I think he maybe would not call it a comeback . He would have said it 's just Donald . <p> But what would he think of your political career ? <p> Oh , he would have been amazed , yeah . My father would have been amazed , because my father did n't make speeches . He did n't make , you know , it was n't , he probably could have done it well , but it would n't have been his thing . I do n't think it would have been his thing . It 's sort of a combination of both the mother and the father . You needed a lot of energy to do that . You know , I did , I did rallies . We did , what , 12 rallies in three days , and these were full rallies . Because , you know , when people are waiting for two days and three days to get in , you ca n't do -- people say , Well , maybe you keep it down to 25 minutes or 15 minutes . If I ever went up for 15 minutes , they 're waiting for days . You know , they have tents . We had many people that followed the rallies . They followed it and it 'll never happen again . It 's sad in a way . It will never happen again . <p> You get some things from your father . What do you get from your mother ? <p> So my mother was a woman . She was born in Scotland . She had great respect for the queen , Queen Elizabeth . It was a long time . She was there for 75 years . And she liked the pomp and ceremony . She thought it was a good thing , not a bad thing . But she was glamorous and my father was hard nosed . It 's sort of an interesting combination . Maybe there 's a combination . Here we sit in Mar a Lago . Maybe there 's a combination of that . <p> Will the First Lady be joining you at the White House for this term ? <p> Oh yes . She was , she was very , she actually became very active towards the end , as you saw with interviews . And she does -- she does them well . People really watch . She 's very beloved by the people , Melania . And they like the fact that she 's not out there in your face all the time for many reasons . Many political people have that , you know . But she 's , she 's really , they really like her . They really love her . Actually , in many ways , when I make speeches , we love our First Lady . they have signs , we love our First Lady . No , she 'll be -- she 'll be active , when she needs to be , when she needs to be . <p> I 've been keeping a list , Mr. President , of things you mentioned that you intend to do early in your administration . It sounds like a reasonable number of things : turning the Department of Education virtual . <p> Well , virtual , turning it back to the states . <p> J6 pardons . Do you have in mind what the first 24 to 48 hours will look like ? <p> I 'll be looking at J6 early on , maybe the first nine minutes . I 'll be looking at oil prices bringing down , you know , coming down very substantially -- meaning energy , energy costs coming down . And with energy comes everything else . See , they really hurt themselves . It went away from my energy policies , totally . It was going to crash . The numbers were through the roof . And then they went back to them . They said , Okay , just let it be . That was the difference between the energy , what they did on energy , and what they did at the border . At the border , they just opened it up to the world . They did n't stop it . You know , we had Remain in Mexico . We had -- that border was in was in great shape . Not easy to do . But on that one , they just said , open it up . And they did n't change . They just did that . With energy , they opened , you saw what was going on . The energy was going through the roof . And then they said , just go back to Trump 's policy . And they went back . Now the difference is that I would have had three times as much now . They have essentially , sort of , they tried to get to equal but if they did n't do that , you 'd have energy , you 'd have you 'd have inflation that would have been much worse than it is . And it already was probably the worst this country has ever had . We 've had the inflation . They lost on inflation , they lost on immigration , they lost on -- as a part of immigration , I think a very big part is the border , the border itself . You know , if you can self subdivide the word immigration . They lost on the economy . But it was a different kind of -- it was the economy as it pertains to groceries and small things that are actually big things for a family . <p> If the prices of groceries do n't come down , will your presidency be a failure ? <p> I do n't think so . Look , they got them up . I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will . I think that energy is going to bring them down . I think a better supply chain is going to bring them down . You know , the supply chain is still broken . It 's broken . You see it . You go out to the docks and you see all these containers . And I own property in California , in Palos Verdes . They 're very nice . And I passed the docks , and I 've been doing it for 20 years . I 've never seen anything like it . You know , for 17 years , I saw containers and , you know , they 'd come off and they 'd be taken away -- big areas , you know , you know , in that area , you know , where they have the big , the big ships coming in -- big , the port . And I 'd see this for years as I was out there inspecting property and things , because they own a lot in California . And I look down and I see containers that are , that are 12 , 13 , 14 containers . You would n't believe they can hold each other . It 's like crazy . No , the supply chain is is broken . I think a very bad thing is this , what they 're doing with the cars . I think they lost also because of cars . You know , there are a lot of reasons , but the car mandate is a disaster . The electric , the EV mandate . <p> And does Elon agree with that ? <p> Oh , it 's very interesting . I tell people that Elon is a friend of mine . He 's a great guy . Gave me the best endorsement you could ever have . And here I am talking against the electric car . Think of that . But see , I 'm not really talking against the electric car , because the electric car , I think , is fantastic for some people , for a slice of the audience , but not for 100% and , you know that Elon , a big part of his business is the Tesla , which is a great car , but Elon has never once , it 's actually hard to believe . He 's never once even talked about the subject . He 'll hear me speaking , you know , speaking , " We must stop . I will immediately terminate the mandate . " Because I think he thinks I 'm right . I 'm a big fan of the electric car , but not for everyone . <p> Some people say his competitors benefit from the mandate . He 's got the head start . <p> He makes a great product . <p> But I do think it 's interesting , because when he talks about how he came to be such a full-throated supporter of yours , it 's cultural issues that are core to that . And I think that when you kind of give your taxonomy of the reasons why you won that -- I mean , you did , you mentioned the trans issues , but I feel like it 's one that also was , was integral in a lot of ways , it seemed . <p> So he was not , he was n't a -- <p> No , he described himself like , basically , a moderate Democrat , a centrist , more or less . <p> He was a Democrat . And I think over time -- you know , something happened when I got shot . I got called by people that were n't fans , and they became fans . And I do n't view it as bravery . I view it as whatever it was that it was , you know , but , but something happened , and I think that sped up . I think Elon was getting there , but I think it sped up the process a lot with him and many other people . Mark Zuckerberg -- <p> Budowich : It 's now five a clock . We 've got about 12 meetings left . <p> I 'm curious . You have control of Congress , both houses . Much of your agenda is executive driven . Why ? <p> Um ... <p> You have the power to do things legislatively . <p> Yeah ? <p> So why is so much of your agenda executive driven ? <p> I do n't know what you mean by that . <p> Well , you said lots of what you can do is without -- <p> Oh , like executive orders . <p> Yeah . <p> Well , I think that Congress should have behaved differently when it came to the border . I ended up taking the money . You know , I built , you know , hundreds of miles of wall , but I took it from the military because I considered it an invasion . I got -- look , I passed the biggest tax cuts ever , bigger than the Reagan tax cuts . I passed a lot of things in Congress , but I also did a lot of executive orders . I think that this Congress is going to be a better Congress for me . I did n't get along with Paul Ryan . I did n't like him . I did n't respect him . I did n't get along with Mitch McConnell , and I thought it was -- I thought some of the things that he did were terrible . The way he was handing out money for the Green New Deal was just terrible . I do get along with , I mean , it 's a new relationship , essentially , because we did n't really know each other very well . But I do get along with Sen. Thune . I do get along with Mike Johnson . I think , you know , Mike is doing a really good job . Both of them are doing a good job . If I have , if I have even a little bit of trouble , I go to an executive order because I can get it done . And some of the things I did as an executive order , I had them approved then later on through Congress . In other words , I 'd get it done now and get it -- look , the great thing about an executive order is you can do it , get it done immediately . The bad thing , or the good thing , depending on where you 're coming from , is you can undo it . Look , I can undo almost everything Biden did , he through executive order . And on day one , much of that will be undone . <p> Do you support ending the filibuster ? <p> I want to leave the Supreme Court the way it is , most importantly . The filibuster is a mechanism that you 're not going to totally overturn every single thing that was ever done . You know , it makes it very difficult in the Senate . It makes it very , very difficult to overturn things . Now , in one way , that 's good . In another way , maybe you 'd say it 's bad . But you know , some of the things -- I have great respect for Manchin and for Sinema , for the fact that they really held out . Look , she lost her career because of it . And you could say he maybe lost his career because of it . Actually , he became hotter because of it . And then he made the mistake of going for the Inflation Creation Act -- which is my nickname , by the way , for the Inflation Reduction Act . Had he not gone for that because he was very popular . But no , I -- and I think we have to do , we have . Our Supreme Court was under siege , and perhaps it still is , but now they do n't have , now the other side does n't have the power to do . I mean , I 've heard as many as 25 justices , and they were all psyched . They were going to do a number on our Supreme Court that now it 's not going to happen . <p> Cheung : Let me just interject here . But we 've got to make this the last question . <p> So I have respect for the filibuster . <p> You 'd want to keep it in place ? <p> Yes . <p> I want to go back to that moment you talked about , Mr. President , how people changed when you were shot . I 'm curious how you changed . <p> I try not to think about it . That was a big moment . It was a big moment . I had a big crowd . We had 55,000 people RSVPed . We had 107,000 when we had the memorial a few weeks later , but we had a few months later actually . When you think , late October , yeah . We had , I think it was a very big moment . I think a lot of people changed with that moment . I think a lot of people became much more religious in that moment . <p> Is that true of you ? <p> I think I have family members that became more of a believer than they would have been . A lot of people , a lot of people change . That was -- that was a horrible day , it was a horrible moment in our country , but I think it , it did change a lot of a lot of minds .
