<h> 11 highlights from Trump 's Time Person of the Year interview <p> Washington -- President-elect Donald Trump was named Time magazine 's Person of the Year on Thursday , the second time he has been awarded the designation after winning the White House . <p> " For marshaling a comeback of historic proportions , for driving a once-in-a- ? generation political realignment , for reshaping the American presidency and altering America 's role in the world , Donald Trump is TIME 's 2024 ? Person of the Year , " Time editor-in-chief Sam Jacobs wrote to explain the selection . <p> As part of the process , Trump sat for an interview with Time journalists at Mar-a-Lago at the end of November . The sit-down covered a wide range of topics , from inflation and foreign affairs to abortion and transgender rights . <h> Trump on inflation : " It 's very hard " to bring prices down <p> Trump campaigned on bringing down prices for everyday Americans and taming inflation . In the interview , however , Trump acknowledged that lowering prices is likely to be an uphill battle : <p> Trump : We 've had the inflation . The Democrats lost on inflation , they lost on immigration , they lost on -- as a part of immigration , I think a very big part is the border , the border itself . You know , if you can self subdivide the word immigration . They lost on the economy . But it was a different kind of -- it was the economy as it pertains to groceries and small things that are actually big things for a family . <p> Time : If the prices of groceries do n't come down , will your presidency be a failure ? <p> Trump : I do n't think so . Look , they got them up . I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will . I think that energy is going to bring them down . I think a better supply chain is going to bring them down . You know , the supply chain is still broken . It 's broken . <p> Trump fielded questions about whether he would issue pardons for the more than 1,500 people who have been convicted of crimes related to the Jan. 6 , 2021 , attack on the Capitol , when a mob of Trump 's supporters tried to stop Congress ' certification of Joe Biden 's victory in the 2020 election : <p> Time : Have you decided yet whether you 're going to pardon all of the January 6 defendants ? <p> Trump : Yes . <p> Time : You 're going to do all of them ? <p> Trump : I 'm going to do case-by-case , and if they were non-violent , I think they 've been greatly punished . And the answer is I will be doing that , yeah , I 'm going to look if there 's some that really were out of control . <p> Time : So you will not include those who committed violent acts ? <p> Trump : Well , we 're going to look at each individual case , and we 're going to do it very quickly , and it 's going to start in the first hour that I get into office . And a vast majority of them should not be in jail . A vast majority should not be in jail , and they 've suffered gravely . And I say , why is it that in Portland and in many other places , Minneapolis , why is it that nothing happened with them and they actually caused death and destruction at levels not seen before ? So you know , if you take a look at what happened in Seattle , you had people die , you had a lot of death , and nothing happened , and these people have been treated really , really badly . Yeah , it 's an important issue for me . They 've suffered greatly , and in many cases they should not have suffered . <p> Later in the interview , Trump said he will be " looking at J6 early on , maybe the first nine minutes " after taking office on Jan. 20 , 2025 . <p> Shortly after the election , Trump announced Florida Rep. Matt Gaetz as his nominee for attorney general . Gaetz was previously investigated for allegedly having sex with a 17-year-old girl , which he denied , and it soon became clear that he was unlikely to win confirmation in the Senate . He withdrew from consideration a week later . <p> Trump told Time that he thought Gaetz would have eventually gotten the votes , but he did n't think it was worth the effort : <p> Time : One of your nominees was effectively blocked by the Senate . There are other senators who have expressed doubts about some of your other nominees . What are you going to do if the Senate continues to balk at your choices for these key cabinet positions ? <p> Trump : Well , I do n't think they will . And he was n't blocked . I had the votes if I needed them , but I had to work very hard . And you know , I 'm not -- there were numerous hard no 's , all of whom agreed with me to do it . <p> Time : So you decided to give up on Gaetz ? <p> Trump : No , I did n't give up on him . I talked to him , and I said , you know , Matt , I do n't think this is worth the fight . <p> Asked whether he would use recess appointments to name heads of agencies without Senate confirmation , Trump said , " I really do n't care how they get them approved , as long as they get them approved , " but also that it was " up to the Senate . " <h> Trump says Harris should have given more interviews during the campaign <p> Asked about Vice President Kamala Harris ' missteps during the presidential race , Trump said she should n't have agreed to replace President Biden in the first place . He also said she made a mistake by not sitting for more interviews , pointing to his own willingness to speak to a variety of outlets and hosts : <p> Time : Speaking of Kamala Harris . What do you think were her worst mistakes in the campaign ? <p> Trump : Taking the assignment . Number one , because you have to know what you 're good at . <p> Time : Did she make any tactical mistakes you think that cost her ? <p> Trump : I think that when she would n't talk to anybody , it shone a light on her . In other words , if she would have gone out and just did interviews where they 're comparable to Steve Cheung , Trump 's communications director , if there is anybody comparable , would say , could you do an interview here ? An interview there ? You know , she did n't do anything . And people said , Is there something wrong with her ? Why would they ? I mean , I 'm doing this interview with you . I did interviews with , if I had the time , anybody that would ask , I 'd do interviews . I think the Joe Rogan interview , you know , that went on for almost three and a half hours . <p> After some back and forth , he continued : <p> Trump : But , but it 's an interesting question when you ask about Harris . I think they made a big tactical mistake by literally not talking to the press , even if a really friendly , I mean , and they had almost all friendly , somebody would come up with a really friendly -- like you guys , maybe -- but a friendly interview , and they turned everybody down . They would n't do the basic . And people , including me , would start to say , is there something wrong with her ? What 's wrong ? Why would n't you do some basic interviews ? And then she had some pretty failed interviews , and maybe it was highlighted more than it would . In other words , if she did those same interviews , but she did another 15 interviews , you know , you would n't have really noticed it that much . <h> Trump says releasing Project 2025 was " totally inappropriate " <p> During the campaign , Democrats hammered Trump and other Republicans over Project 2025 , a conservative effort to lay out a blueprint for a second Trump administration . Trump tried to distance himself from the final product , but many of its contributors worked in his first administration , and several have been named to powerful posts in his second term . <p> Trump told Time he did n't read the group 's work , and said its organizers should n't have released it during the campaign : <p> Time : During the campaign , you disavowed Project 2025 , but so far at least five people you 've appointed to top positions in your Cabinet have ties to it . Does n't that undermine what you told Americans on the campaign trail ? <p> Trump : No , look , I do n't -- I do n't disagree with everything in Project 2025 , but I disagree with some things . I specifically did n't want to read it because it was n't under my auspices , and I wanted to be able to say that , you know , the only way I can say I have nothing to do with it is if you do n't read it . I do n't want -- I did n't want to read it . I read enough about it . They have some things that are very conservative and very good . They have other things that I do n't like . I wo n't go into individual items , but I had nothing to do with Project 2025 . Now , if we had a few people that were involved , they had hundreds of them . This is a big document , from what I understand . <p> Time : More than 800 pages . <p> Trump : It 's a lot of pages . That 's a lot of pages . I thought it was inappropriate that they came out with it just before the election , to be honest with you . <p> Time : Really ? <p> Trump : I let them know , yeah , I did n't think it was appropriate , because it 's not me . Why would they do that ? They complicated my election by doing it because people tried to tie me and I did n't agree with everything in there , and some things I vehemently disagreed with , and I thought it was inappropriate that they would come out with a document like that prior to my election . <p> Time : Did you express those frustrations with them ? <p> Trump : Oh I did . It was n't a frustration , it was a fact . It 's totally inappropriate . They come up with an 800-page document , and the enemy , which is , you know , the other party , is allowed to go through and pick out two items , 12 items out of , you know , 800 . No , I thought it was an open -- I thought it was a very foolish thing for them to do . <p> Time : I understand , sir . <p> Trump : These are people that would like to see me win . And yet , they came out with this document , and they had some pretty ridiculous things in there . They also had some very good things in there . <h> Trump says transgender bathroom issue has " ripped apart our country " <p> During the campaign , Trump spent tens of millions of dollars on a television ad that highlighted Harris ' positions on transgender rights , specifically her support in 2019 for taxpayer-funded gender-affirming surgery for inmates and immigrant detainees . " Kamala 's for they/them . President Trump is for you , " the ad said . <p> But in his interview with Time , Trump downplayed fights over transgender rights , particularly which bathroom transgender people are allowed to use , saying the issue has " ripped apart our country " : <p> Time : Can I shift to the transgender issue ? Obviously , sort of a major issue during the campaign . In 2016 , you said that transgender people could use whatever bathroom they chose . Do you still feel that way ? <p> Trump : When was that ? <p> Time : In 2016 . <p> Trump : I do n't want to get into the bathroom issue . Because it 's a very small number of people we 're talking about , and it 's ripped apart our country , so they 'll have to settle whatever the law finally agrees . I am a big believer in the Supreme Court , and I 'm going to go by their rulings , and so far , I think their rulings have been rulings that people are going along with , but we 're talking about a very small number of people , and we 're talking about it , and it gets massive coverage , and it 's not a lot of people . <p> Time : But on that note , there 's a big fight on this in Congress now . The incoming trans member from Delaware , Sarah McBride , says we should all be focused on more important issues . Do you agree ? <p> Trump : I do agree with that . On that -- absolutely . As I was saying , it 's a small number of people . <p> Asked whether he would reverse the Biden administration 's protections for trans children under Title IX , Trump said , " I 'm going to look at it very closely . " <h> Trump on using military for deportations : " I will go up to the maximum level of what the law allows " <p> Turning to immigration , the Time journalists noted that federal law prohibits using the military as law enforcement on U.S. soil . They asked Trump how that squares with his promise to use the military to facilitate his mass deportation plans : <p> Time : You recently said on Truth Social that you plan to use the military to deport migrants . The Posse Comitatus Act prohibits the use of the military for domestic law enforcement . What will you do if the military does not or refuses to carry out your orders ? <p> Trump : Well , it does n't , it does n't stop the military if it 's an invasion of our country , and I consider it an invasion of our country . We have criminals coming into our countries that we 've never seen , we 've never seen before . We have people coming in at levels and at record numbers that we 've never seen before . And I 'll only do what the law allows , but I will go up to the maximum level of what the law allows . And I think in many cases , the sheriffs and law enforcement is going to need help . We 'll also get National Guard . We 'll get National Guard , and we 'll go as far as I 'm allowed to go , according to the laws of our country . <p> Musk 's various enterprises are regulated by or have contracts with federal agencies , raising the prospect that his work with DOGE would constitute a conflict of interest . Trump told Time he does n't think it does : <p> Time : You 've put Elon Musk in charge of DOGE , giving him the power to -- <p> Trump : Along with -- <p> Time : Along with Vivek Ramaswamy , yes , absolutely . But on Musk specifically , giving him the power to oversee the agencies that regulate his companies . Is n't that a conflict of interest ? <p> Trump : I do n't think so . Look , we have a country that is bloated with rules , regulations and with , frankly , people that are unnecessary to do . We are going to need a lot of people in a lot of other jobs . We 're looking to get people into private sector jobs where they can do better and be more productive . We 're going to see what happens . We have some interesting months coming up , at the beginning . We 're going to see what happens . But this country is bloated . <p> Time : I think everybody agrees that there 's waste in the federal government -- <p> Trump : Waste , fraud , and abuse . <p> Time : But Elon Musk is talking about cuts that would directly affect NASA , which would then directly affect SpaceX , his company . Is n't that the textbook definition of a conflict of interest ? <p> Trump : I think that Elon puts the country long before his company . I mean , he 's in a lot of companies , but he really is , and I 've seen it . He considers this to be his most important project , and he wanted to do it . And , you know , I think , I think he 's one of the very few people that would have the credibility to do it , but he puts the country before , and I 've seen it , before he puts his company . <h> Trump on Ukraine : " You ca n't reach an agreement if you abandon " <p> Trump has said he wants to broker a deal to end the war between Ukraine and Russia , and has harshly criticized the tens of billions of dollars of aid the U.S. has sent Kyiv since Russia 's invasion in 2022 . <p> Trump addressed fears from Democrats and European allies that he would abandon Ukraine or push the country to give up territory in any eventual peace deal : <p> Time : The question that many Americans and many people around the world have is , Will you abandon Ukraine ? <p> Trump : I want to reach an agreement , and the only way you 're going to reach an agreement is not to abandon . You understand what that means , right ? <p> Time : Right . Well , no , tell me . <p> Trump : Well , I just said it . You ca n't reach an agreement if you abandon , in my opinion . And I disagree with the whole thing , because it should have never happened . Putin would have never invaded Ukraine if I were president for numerous reasons . Number one , they drove up the oil price . When they drove up the oil price , they made it a profit-making situation for him , the oil price should have been driven down . If it was driven down , you would n't have had it would n't have started just for pure economic reasons . But when it hits $80 , $85 , and $90 a barrel . I mean , he made , he made a lot of money . I 'm not saying it 's a good thing , because he 's also suffered , but they are moving forward . You know , this is a war that 's been -- this is a tragedy . This is death that 's far greater than anyone knows . When the real numbers come out , you 're going to see numbers that you 're not going to believe . <h> Trump on Netanyahu and the war in Gaza : " He knows I want it to end " <p> Trump addressed the volatile situation in the Middle East , specifically the war in Gaza between Hamas and Israel . He said the Middle East is " an easier problem to handle than what 's happening with Russia and Ukraine " and " going to get solved . " <p> Trump declined to go into specifics about what he has discussed with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , but said he had made his position clear : <p> Time : Did Netanyahu give you assurances about when he would end the war ? <p> Trump : Um , I do n't want to say that , but I think he feels confident that -- I think he feels very confident in me , and I think he knows I want it to end . I want everything to end . I want , I do n't want people killed , you know ? I do n't want people from either side killed , and that includes whether it 's Russia , Ukraine , or whether it 's the Palestinians and the Israelis and all of the , you know , the different entities that we have in the Middle East . There 's so many different entities . But I do n't want people killed . <p> Time : When you say productive things are happening , can you be more specific ? <p> Trump : No , I ca n't . I mean , I 'd love to be , I would so love to be , but I ca n't . I will be . We 're going to sit down in a period of time , hopefully soon , and I 'll tell you all the things that are happening . But there are some very productive things happening . I do think -- okay , because I 'm looking at two , two primary fronts , right ? You have the Russia-Ukraine , and you have this , and there are other problems also . But look , when North Korea gets involved , that 's another element that 's a very complicating factor . And I know Kim Jong Un , I get along very well with Kim Jong Un . I 'm probably the only one he 's ever really dealt with . When you think about it , I am the only one he 's ever dealt with . But you have a lot of very bad complicating factors there , but we 'll sit down and we 'll at the end of each of these , or both , maybe simultaneously , we 'll sit down and I 'll show you what a good job I did . <p> Time : You mentioned the Palestinian people . In your first term , your administration put forward the most comprehensive plan for a two-state solution in a long time . Do you still support that plan ? <p> Trump : I support a plan of peace , and it can take different forms . When I did the Abraham Accords , that should have been loaded up with people , you know . I made a statement . I think they did n't add one country . Think of it . They did n't add one country to the Abraham Accords . We had the four countries , very important countries , but that should have been loaded up with Middle Eastern countries . <p> Time : Do you still support a two-state solution ? <p> Trump : I support whatever solution we can do to get peace . There are other ideas other than two state , but I support whatever , whatever is necessary to get not just peace , a lasting peace . It ca n't go on where every five years you end up in tragedy . There are other alternatives . <h> Does Trump trust Netanyahu ? " I do n't trust anybody " <p> After some more discussion about the Middle East and Iran , Time asked Trump whether he trusts the Israeli leader . Trump gave a blunt response : <p> Stefan Becket is a managing editor of politics for CBSNews.com . Stefan has covered national politics for more than a decade and helps oversee a team covering the White House , Congress , the Supreme Court , immigration and federal law enforcement .
