<p> Against larger Hollywood trends towards embracing cultural identity , Jewish characters on TV are still depicted as hiding or playing down their Jewishness , according to a new study from USC Annenberg Norman Lear Center 's Media Impact Project . <p> The study , undertaken with the support of the Jewish Institute for Television and Cinema Hollywood Bureau , also confirmed that " Jewface " really does exist , noting that only about half of Jewish characters are played by confirmed Jewish actors . It also pointed out that Jewish actresses are 21 percent less likely to be cast as Jewish characters than their male counterparts are . <h> Related Stories <p> The study is the first of its kind to focus on Jewish representation since 1999 and predates the Oct. 7 Hamas attack on Israel and ensuing war in Gaza , which has led to an explosive 60 percent increase in antisemitic hate crimes . Still , incidents of antisemitism rose in the period covered by the study , which analyzed 108 Jewish characters in 49 episodes from 15 scripted TV series that aired between 2021 and 2022 . <p> Only 18 percent of Jewish characters reference their Judaism , the study finds . When you omit characters who are in Jewish careers like rabbis or funeral directors , as well as Orthodox Jews , the number of Jews who reference their culture goes down to 13 percent . <p> The study took a deeper look at depictions of the Orthodox community in film and TV , finding that half of the Orthodox characters are portrayed with " judgment and othering , " while one in five have a " generally cold demeanor " and are " dissatisfied with their lives . " <p> A third of all references to Orthodox Jews happen without an Orthodox Jew present -- meaning they are being spoken about " as opposed to speaking for themselves . " <p> The study also detected a trend of Jews leaning away from their identities , with as many as 31 percent of characters embracing other cultures over their own . ( An example are Hallmark Channel movies like Double Holiday and Holiday Date , where a Jewish character must learn the meaning of Christmas to keep her relationship alive . ) <p> It found almost no diversity among the Jews on TV , all of whom are depicted as white or Ashkenazi Jews . Jews of color , Mizrahi Jews and LGBTQ-identifying Jews were not represented . <p> The report also found certain antisemitic tropes , some that date back to Shakespeare 's times -- the greedy Shylock , the nebbish man , the overbearing Jewish mother -- are still alive . <p> Two percent of Jewish characters were shown being " cheap " ( e.g. arguing over a $1 Ferris wheel ticket ) , while 5 percent were shown committing a violent act and 7 percent were portrayed as generally unsympathetic . <p> To promote more diverse and nuanced depictions of Jewish Americans , the study recommended elevating Jewish characters whose stories often remain untold ; being mindful of tropes that associate Jews with money or power ; and giving voice to Jewish pride and joy . <p> It also recommends allowing Orthodox characters to speak for themselves and depicting Orthodox Jews as " the people next door . "
