<p> A Palestinian child walks with a bicycle by the rubble of a building after it was hit by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City on Oct. 8 , 2023 . Credit : Fatima Shbair / AP <p> The BDN Opinion section operates independently and does not set news policies or contribute to reporting or editing articles elsewhere in the newspaper or on bangordailynews.com <p> Timothy Paradis is the communications director of Maine Voices For Palestinian Rights . He previously served on the foreign policy staff of Sen. Edward Kennedy , as a corporate business consultant , and as a manager with a variety of Maine-based not-for-profit organizations . <p> In her Dec. 3 column criticizing the Belfast City Council resolution to divest from Israeli companies complicit in the war , Sara Colb of the Anti-Defamation League of New England offers shopworn rationalizations that Israel 's supporters have been using for decades : Israel is an innocent victim targeted by people stepping out of their " lane " out of antisemitism and a desire to destroy the Jewish state . After watching Israel 's abuses and impunity , we reject these rationales . <p> Colb 's position , like that of the entire Israel First lobby , is that holding Israel to account for its violations of international law and human rights is somehow an affront to peace . It seems that she and the ADL do not believe Palestinians deserve the same rights to self-determination or safety as Jews . <p> Look at a map . Although Israeli Jews and indigenous Palestinians are roughly equal in number , Palestinian-controlled land is delineated today like a few scattered holes in a block of Swiss cheese . For almost a century , Israel , after wars and annexations , has expelled Palestinians from their lands , bulldozed their homes and illegally seized their property . <p> Colb dismisses these violations of the Geneva Conventions and the U.N . ' s Universal Declaration of Human Rights , as " certain actions of the Israeli government , " and bemoans protests against them . The protesters against Israel 's policies include Israel 's B'tselem human rights group , Amnesty International , Human Rights Watch and virtually all members of the United Nations . The charges go back years before the current genocide . <p> The Israeli military first occupied Gaza and the West Bank in 1967 , after the Six-Day War . This might explain why the boycott , sanctions and divestment movement began in the 2000s , decades before the current conflict . While presenting scant evidence that supporters of divestment oppose " Israel 's right to exist , " there 's ample evidence that Israel 's current leaders are determined to eliminate the Palestinians or force them into exile as stateless refugees . <p> Colb points to a rise in antisemitic incidents in the United States , but makes no mention of a similar rise in Islamophobia and attacks against Arab-Americans . Both should be condemned unequivocally . But I believe it is precisely the sense from Colb 's Anti-Defamation League that only Jewish lives and Jewish safety deserve priority that exacerbate " hate and isolation " ; this is what truly harms our communities . <p> The Belfast resolution matters . In the record of history , it will likely be asked who counseled silence and abetted genocide , and who spoke out in defense of justice and humanity . The residents of Belfast can proudly say they spoke for humanity .
