<h> In a world with blurred identities , how should we tackle antisemitic and antizionist attacks ? <p> Firefighters work at the scene of a fire at the Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea , Melbourne , Australia , December 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : AAP Image/Con Chronis via REUTERS ) <p> Antisemitic attacks have become a sad norm for Diaspora Jews since the Hamas massacre of October 7 last year . Whatever claims are made about these heinous crimes as targeting Israel and its response in Gaza to the massacre , we do n't hesitate to call them out for what they are : hate-fueled abominable actions aimed at Jews . <p> Perhaps one of the greatest recent examples is the devastating fire that ripped through the Adass Israel Synagogue in Ripponlea , Melbourne , early Friday morning . Aside from the damage to the historic building , two people were wounded . <p> Like thieves in the night , the attackers did not raise their issues with the Jewish community face-to-face , during daylight hours , as civilized people do . They came in the dead of night , cowards that they are , and targeted a place that is a home of worship and a hall of sanctuary . <p> To ask " What did the community do to deserve this ? " rests on a false premise ; they did n't do anything beyond merely existing . Members of the Synagogue recover items from the Adass Israel Synagogue on December 06 , 2024 in Melbourne , Australia . ( credit : Asanka Ratnayake/Getty Images ) <h> No surprises here <p> Unfortunately , the fact that this happened at all is not surprising ; the fact that this happened in a democratic country with a functional security apparatus is egregious . These are citizens who deserve to be protected in person and property . <p> " The atrocities that occurred at the synagogue in Melbourne clearly were designed to create fear in the community and therefore , from my personal perspective , certainly fulfill that definition of terrorism , " Albanese said at a press conference in Perth . <p> One day earlier , on Saturday , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that Australia 's Labor government motivated the crime with anti-Israel policies . <p> Netanyahu drew a clear line between the attack and the " anti-Israel spirit " of Albanese 's center-left government , the policies of which include support of a recent UN motion backing a Palestinian state . He posited that the two could not be separated . <p> Although global antisemitism has surged since October 7 , caution should be used before tying in Israel to every antisemitic attack . <p> The Melbourne attack broadcast two messages . First , that Jews are n't safe , anywhere , and second , that anything can be a target if the ends , whatever they may be , are justified enough in the mind of its attackers . <p> Australia 's government defended its record on antisemitism , saying on Saturday that since Albanese took office in May 2022 , the government has provided A$25 million ( $16 m. ) to upgrade security at Jewish sites including schools , banned the Nazi salute , and taken action against hate speech . Laws passed last year also banned public displays of terror group symbols . <p> However , this is a late-stage Band-Aid to the equivalent of a heart condition . The sense of a lack of legitimacy and safety did not begin with the Melbourne arson attack . There was the June vandalizing and arson of Jewish parliamentarian Josh Burns ' office , and the defacement of vehicles , along with arson , in Sydney in November . A report by the Executive Council of Australian Jewry found a 316% increase in anti-Jewish incidents in Australia from October 7 , 2023 , through this past September . <p> " Everyone has the right to be proud of who they are and to feel welcome , safe , and supported in Australia , " Albanese said on Sunday . " Antisemitism has no place in our country . We unequivocally condemn it . " <p> The Australian government on Monday , three days after the attack , announced the formation of a counter-antisemitism task force . The Special Operation Avalite for Antisemitism will work with state and territory police to address issues like calls to violence or the advocating for terrorism or genocide . <p> But the government must do more . Unlike what Netanyahu said , this is not just about Israel , and tying between those two things can devalue the scope and trauma of the attack . <p> In a world growing more globalized by the day , with identities blurring , it is important to separate attacks like these from each other when they happen . They are domestic incidents first and must be tackled as such . Let 's hope the Australian government follows up on its promises and that the Australian Jewish community begins to feel the effects of personal safety again soon .
