<h> ' First , set fire to their synagogues ' <p> The gutted interior of Melbourne 's Adass Israel Synagogue . There is a long and painful history of antisemites putting Jewish houses of worship to the flames.wccubbison via X <p> Shortly after 4 a.m. on Friday , two people in masks were spotted dousing the main entrance of the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne , one of Australia 's largest and busiest shuls , with gasoline . Moments later , the building was set on fire and rapidly became an inferno . At that very early hour , only a few men were in the sanctuary ; they had come to study before morning prayers began two hours later . They realized what was happening when they heard glass shattering and were able to get out of the building through a rear door , though one suffered burns to his hand and two had to be hospitalized for smoke inhalation . Had the arsonists struck an hour later , far more people would have been inside . There is no telling how many might have died . <p> The damage was massive . Much of the interior was gutted . Many religious books were turned to ash . It took 60 firefighters and 17 trucks to put out the fire . At least six Torah scrolls -- the most venerated objects in Jewish worship ; each one typically takes 12-18 months to write -- were damaged by heat and water . <p> Adass Israel was founded after World War II . Many of its first congregants were European immigrants who had survived the Holocaust . Rebuilding their lives following the Nazi nightmare in which one-third of the world 's Jews were murdered , they would have remembered only too vividly the smashing and burning of synagogues across Germany and Austria in November 1938 -- the Kristallnacht pogrom that foreshadowed the genocidal whirlwind to come . <p> To Jews of that era , born in a world where antisemitic violence and destruction was not only routine but often promoted by political and religious leaders , it would not have come as a bolt from the blue that Jew-hating arsonists would attack a synagogue . Not so for the 21st-century Jews of Melbourne , some of whom naively believed that in civilized societies , such atrocities are no longer possible . <p> " I 'm shocked , just absolutely shocked , " Benjamin Klein , an Adass Israel board member , told Australia 's 9News TV network . " We did n't think it will happen here in Melbourne to us . We 're a quiet community . We have our heads down , we do n't bother anybody , we wish everybody well . " Klein practices strict Orthodox Judaism , but there was a similar reaction from less religious Australian Jews . Benjamin Preiss , a Melbourne newspaper editor and a self-described " largely secular " Jew , wrote in a column Monday that even as he was covering the burning of the Adass Israel synagogue , " I struggled to believe that anyone in Australia would so brazenly target a place of peaceful prayer . The fact that there were people inside at the time of the attack makes it all the more sickening . " <p> Advertisement <p> Yet there had been no shortage of reminders for Australia 's Jews , especially since Oct. 7 , 2023 , that many of their fellow Australians hate them . Just two days after the worst slaughter of Jews since the Holocaust , a mob of Hamas supporters rallied in front of the Sydney Opera House , waving Palestinian flags and yelling " F*ck the Jews " and " Gas the Jews . " Last week the Executive Council of Australian Jewry reported that almost 2,100 anti-Jewish incidents had occurred in the 12 months following Oct. 7 -- a fourfold increase from the year before . " With a few honorable exceptions , " the council noted , " the response from political and community leaders , university executives , and civil society has been tepid at best . The result has been a ratcheting up of antisemitism from hateful words to steadily more serious hateful actions . " <p> The burning of synagogues is one of the oldest evils perpetrated against Jews . Long before there was a Third Reich or a modern state of Israel , those who hated the Jewish people often expressed that hatred by setting ablaze the places where Jews gathered to pray . <p> Advertisement <p> The historian Robert Wistrich , in his sweeping history of antisemitism , " A Lethal Obsession , " describes the fourth-century Church father St. John Chrysostom , who " justified the burning down of synagogues " on the grounds that they were " a temple of demons devoted to idolatrous cults , a criminal assembly of Jews ... a gulf and abyss of perdition . " Chrysostom 's contemporary , St. Ambrose of Milan , shared that view . When a synagogue in Mesopotamia was burned down in 388 at the instigation of the local bishop , the Roman emperor Theodosius ordered that it be rebuilt at the expense of those responsible . An outraged Ambrose argued forcefully that the order should be rescinded . No Christian should be punished for burning a synagogue , he declared , since any building where Jews worshiped was " a home of unbelief , a house of impiety , a receptacle of folly which God himself has condemned . " <p> When the First Crusade reached the Holy Land in 1099 , recounted Simon Sebag Montefiore in " Jerusalem : The Biography , " they fought not just the ruling Muslims but also the beleaguered and powerless Jewish community . " The Jews sought refuge in their synagogues , but the Crusaders set them on fire , " Montefiore wrote . " The Jews were burned alive , almost a climactic burnt offering in Christ 's name . " <p> Martin Luther , the central figure of the Protestant Reformation , was one of history 's great antisemites . In an infamous 1543 treatise , " On the Jews and Their Lies , " he offered his " sincere advice " for dealing with " this rejected and condemned people , the Jews . " His list of recommendations began : " First , set fire to their synagogues or schools and bury and cover with dirt whatever will not burn . " <p> Even when Jewish communities have ceased to exist , the synagogues they leave behind have been destroyed by arsonists . In 2005 , Israel ended its occupation of the Gaza Strip , unilaterally turning over the entire territory to the Palestinian Authority , dismantling the 21 settlements that had been built there and removing the 9,000 Jewish residents who had lived in them . But they left the synagogues intact . The buildings were both sacred and beautiful , and Israelis did n't have the heart to flatten them . It was thought that even if the former synagogues would no longer be used for Jewish prayer , the Palestinians could put them to good use -- as community centers , perhaps , or office facilities , municipal buildings , or schools . <p> But upon taking over the land that Israel had voluntarily relinquished , the very first thing the Palestinians did was to put the synagogues to the torch . " Gaza 's night sky turned orange as fires roared across the settlements , " the Associated Press reported . " Women ululated , teens set off fireworks , and crowds chanted ' God is great . ' " <p> There will be more . As overt antisemitism becomes increasingly normalized , the hate crimes will continue to pile up . More Jews will be menaced and assaulted , more antisemitism will be pumped into social media , more cities will experience " Jew hunts " -- and more synagogues will go up in flames . The blood-dimmed tide is loosed , to borrow Yeats 's phrase . Our world is deeply disordered and increasingly out of control . Something truly frightful is coming . Jews , as always the canary in the coal mine , are the first to be targeted . But they wo n't be the last .
