<h> Follow Us <h> Blinken travels to Mideast as Syria navigates post-Assad path <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken looks on ahead of the start of the 31st Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Ministerial summit , in Ta'Qali , Malta , Dec. 5 , 2024 . Blinken is heading to Jordan and Turkey on Dec. 11 , to discuss an aligned vision for Syria . <p> Share <p> Blinken travels to Mideast as Syria navigates post-Assad path <p> share <p> WASHINGTON -- <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken departed Wednesday for Jordan and later Turkey , seeking to rally regional countries around a common vision for Syria 's future following the ousting of longtime authoritarian ruler Bashar al-Assad . <p> Blinken is scheduled to visit Aqaba , Jordan , and Ankara , Turkey , where he will meet with leaders from key Arab and Muslim countries to discuss developments in Syria , Israel , Gaza , Lebanon and the broader region , according to the U.S. State Department . <p> A spokesperson said Blinken aims to secure consensus among regional leaders on key principles for Syria 's post-Assad transition . He said these include full respect for minority rights , the facilitation of humanitarian aid , the prevention of Syria becoming a haven for terrorism or a threat to its neighbors and the securing and safe destruction of chemical or biological weapons stockpiles . <p> Blinken has said that the United States will recognize a Syrian government that upholds those principles . <p> Speaking before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Wednesday , Blinken said he believes President-elect Donald Trump 's incoming administration will have an interest in preserving the gains made toward eliminating the " territorial caliphate " that the terror group known as Islamic State had established in Syria . <p> Trump and his team have said that the U.S. should not get involved in Syria . <p> " This is not our fight . Let it play out , " Trump wrote December 7 on Truth Social . <p> During a hearing earlier Wednesday that lasted more than four hours , Blinken told lawmakers , " If Syria goes the other way -- if it fragments -- we 're likely to see more mass migrations . We 're likely to see more places in Syria that become centers for terrorism and extremism , none of which is in our interest . " <p> In Aqaba , Blinken will meet with Jordan 's King Abdulla II and senior officials to discuss bilateral issues , highlight the U.S.-Jordan strategic partnership , and reaffirm U.S. support for regional stability . <p> In Ankara , Blinken will engage with senior Turkish officials to strengthen bilateral cooperation on shared priorities , including counterterrorism and regional stability , with NATO ally Turkey . <p> Some analysts argue that there is a strategic rationale , at least for now , in maintaining the current U.S. presence of about 900 U.S. troops in Syria to contain IS and prevent a resurgence of terrorist groups in the region . <p> " But getting involved in a major way is probably contrary to American interests . And of course , we really have n't been involved in a major way in Syria from the beginning of the civil war . You know , over a decade ago , " said Thomas Graham , a former U.S. diplomat and now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations . <p> On Tuesday , Blinken held talks with counterparts from Jordan , the United Arab Emirates , Qatar and Egypt , where he reiterated the need for a Syrian-led transition . <p> Meanwhile , on Thursday , the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons , or OPCW , will hold an emergency session to address the situation in Syria . The OPCW -- the implementing body for the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention -- said it is monitoring Syria with " special attention " to chemical weapons sites and has reminded the country of its duty to declare and destroy all banned weapons . <p> The U.S. State Department said it will await the session 's outcome to determine the next steps . <p> Syrian rebel leader Abu Mohammed al-Golani said on Wednesday that he would dissolve the security forces of the ousted Assad regime . He also said his group was working with international organizations to identify and secure possible sites where chemical weapons may be stored . <p> A boy holding a rifle borrowed from a Syrian opposition fighter poses on the top of a government forces tank that was left on a street , at the Umayyad Square in Damascus , Syria , Dec. 11 , 2024 . <p> Also , U.S. President Joe Biden will join leaders of the Group of Seven leading industrial nations in a virtual summit on Friday to discuss Syria and other pressing issues in the Middle East . <p> Last Sunday , Syrian rebel groups toppled the Assad regime after a swift offensive of under two weeks , ending a decades-long reign of brutal oppression . <p> While many Syrians celebrate Assad 's departure , uncertainty looms over the nation 's future . The Islamist group Hayat Tahrir al-Sham , the dominant faction among opposition forces , is rapidly consolidating power . At the same time , foreign actors are vying for influence with the nascent government or seeking to limit its potential as a security threat . <p> Gerald Feierstein , director of the Arabian Peninsula Affairs Program at the Middle East Institute , told VOA , " The Turks are far more sympathetic to political Islam , and have longstanding ties to Hayat Tahrir al-Sham and to Golani -- not close , but they do have ties . ... For the Gulf states , they 're going to be far more suspicious about which direction Damascus is going to be going . " <p> Feierstein noted that while there is currently " not a big gap " between Turkish and Gulf perspectives , this difference could widen over time if the new government in Damascus adopts a more hardline Islamist stance than expected . <p> Syria 's nearly 14-year civil war claimed 500,000 lives and displaced half of its 23 million prewar population . Millions of Syrians fled to neighboring countries such as Jordan , Turkey , Iraq and Lebanon , with many continuing their journey to Europe in search of safety .
