<h> Israel 's Netanyahu vows to challenge ' absurd ' corruption charges as he takes the stand in his trial <h> TIA GOLDENBERG <h> The Associated Press <p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu promised defiantly today to knock down corruption allegations against him as he began testifying in his long-running trial , becoming the first sitting Israeli leader to take the stand as a criminal defendant . <p> The testimony is another low point for Israel 's longest-serving leader , who also faces an international arrest warrant for alleged war crimes in Israel 's war in Gaza . <p> In his opening testimony in a packed Tel Aviv courtroom , Netanyahu argued that he was a dedicated leader and a defender of Israel 's interests , swatting away the charges against him as a " drop in the sea " compared to the challenges he has faced protecting his country . <p> But the charges have torn open divisions in Israel and complicated Netanyahu 's legacy , which has also been tainted by the war in Gaza and the growing international isolation Israel faces because of it . <p> Speaking freely and appearing at ease , Netanyahu said he could balance appearing at his trial with his duties as prime minister at a time when Israel is still fighting a war in Gaza and contending with the fall of Bashar Assad in neighboring Syria . <p> " I waited eight years for this moment , to say the truth , " Netanyahu said , standing at a podium , with his son Avner and several members of his Likud party seated on the courtroom benches . He said his testimony would " poke holes in the absurd accusations . " <p> Netanyahu will answer during his court appearances to charges of fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . <p> He is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for assistance with personal and business interests . He is also accused of promoting advantageous regulations for media moguls in exchange for favorable coverage of himself and his family . <p> Netanyahu , 75 , denies wrongdoing , saying the charges are a witch hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and a biased legal system out to topple his lengthy rule . His testimony caps years of scandals that have swirled around him and his family , who have gained a reputation as enjoying a lavish lifestyle at taxpayers ' expense . <p> Netanyahu 's testimony is taking place in an underground , fortified courtroom for security reasons . Outside the courthouse , dozens of protesters gathered , both supporters of Netanyahu and his opponents . A banner draped outside read " Crime Minister " as each side chanted slogans . Some families of hostages held in Gaza also demonstrated . <p> At the start of his testimony , a judge told Netanyahu he had the same privileges as other witnesses and could sit or stand as he chose . <p> Netanyahu told his version of events and shared personal details about his life that he might hope would shape the judges ' perception of him . He said at the start of his career in public service he would lose sleep over media coverage but learned it had no meaningful bearing -- in contrast to the prosecution 's attempts to paint him as image-obsessed . <p> He said he smoked cigars but could hardly finish them because of his workload , and hated champagne . <p> Ahead of the testimony 's start , Netanyahu 's lawyer , Amit Hadad , accused the Israeli justice system of making up the charges in an attempt to ensnare Netanyahu . <p> " There was a huge effort ... to find a few pieces of a puzzle that do n't connect to each other , " Haddad said , as Netanyahu sat on a bench behind him . " In court , in the light of day , we see everything falls apart . " <p> The testimony , set to take place six hours a day , three days a week for several weeks , will take up a significant chunk of Netanyahu 's working hours , prompting critics to ask if he can capably manage a country embroiled in a war on one front , containing the fallout from a second , and keeping tabs on other potential regional threats , including from Iran . <p> His lawyer asked that he be allowed to receive notes while testifying to help ensure he could continue running the country , and at some points during the trial , Netanyahu did . <p> Under Israeli law , indicted prime ministers are not required to step down . But the charges against Netanyahu cleaved deep divisions in Israel , with protesters demanding he resign and former political allies refusing to serve in government with the Israeli leader , triggering a political crisis that led to five elections in less than four years beginning in 2019 . <p> Netanyahu 's supporters view the charges as the result of bias and overreach by the justice system . <p> Despite the pressure , Netanyahu has rejected calls to step down and has used his position as prime minister to lash out at law enforcement , media and courts . <p> An Israeli court rejected a request by Netanyahu 's lawyers to reduce the expected number of hours of testimony , as well as several other requests to delay its start , which they said were necessary because of the prime minister 's busy schedule and the country 's significant challenges . A verdict is n't expected until 2026 at the earliest and Netanyahu will have the option to appeal to the Supreme Court . <p> Since the trial began in 2020 , the court has heard prosecution witnesses in the three cases , including some of Netanyahu 's once closest aides who turned state witnesses . The prosecution has tried to portray the prime minister as an image-obsessed leader who broke the law to improve his public perception . <p> Netanyahu 's testimony could further tarnish his image at a complicated time . His popular support dropped after Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks , with the public blaming his leadership for failing to prevent the assault , and if elections were held today he would struggle to form a government . Israel is still fighting Hamas in Gaza with no end in sight , despite heavy international pressure to wind down the war , as well as pressure from the families of hostages held in Gaza and their supporters to bring their loved ones home . <p> The Israeli leader along with his former defense minister also face an arrest warrant from the International Criminal Court for alleged war crimes charges related to the war in Gaza . The warrant puts Netanyahu in the same company as Russian President Vladimir Putin and former Sudanese leader Omar al-Bashir.
