<p> A new study revealed " alarmingly high " exposure to antisemitism among Jewish medical professionals , resulting in over a quarter of them reportedly feeling " unsafe or threatened " in the workplace . <p> Led by StandWithUs 's data and analytics department , the Journal of General Internal Medicinestudy published Wednesday found that 39.2% of Jewish medical professionals , mostly physicians , reported " direct exposure " to antisemitism in their professional or academic settings , with 26.4% feeling unsafe due to the prevalence of antisemitic incidents . <p> " This study identified alarmingly high reported experiences of antisemitism by Jewish healthcare professionals , and found that few organizations address antisemitism in anti-bias training , " the authors wrote . <p> Only 1.9% of the 645 Jewish medical professionals representing 32 states reported antisemitism being included in antibias training , and 71.6% of respondents agreed that antisemitism should be included . <p> The study specified several kinds of reported conduct deemed antisemitic by the respondents in their testimonials . One example of conduct involved healthcare professionals saying " Zionists " should be denied medical care while discussing a Jewish patient . The majority of Jews believe in Israel 's right to self-determination , otherwise known as Zionism . <p> Respondents also reported " social and professional isolation " from their peers based on their Jewish identity , " hateful speakers " present at professional conferences , and being placed on a " do not call or hire " list based on Jewish identity or connection to Israel . <p> They also reported comments from coworkers " justifying the October 7 massacre " and unequal acknowledgment by medical institutions about Israeli and " Palestinian trauma . " The rape , slaughtering , and kidnapping of Israelis were allegedly ignored in favor of the plight of Palestinians in Gaza following the attack . <p> Medical schools and hospitals also reportedly ignored complaints about antisemitism and advised Jewish healthcare professionals to refrain from speaking publicly on the matter . Jewish students who felt unsafe were allegedly told that they needed to be " more comfortable being uncomfortable , " and department chairs at medical schools dismissed reports of antisemitic statements . <p> Of the 645 respondents , 74% are physicians , and 52.1% are in academia . StandWithUs was joined by four medical schools , a school of social work , and a pediatric care network to author the study . <p> " There should be zero tolerance for all forms of hate , particularly in healthcare organizations , " the authors wrote . " The resurgence of antisemitism , the world 's oldest form of hatred , in the US , in general , and in medicine since Oct 7 , 2023 , requires urgent action by medical schools and healthcare organizations . " <p> " Based on our results , incorporating education about antisemitism into existing anti-bias training and/or into diversity , equity , and inclusion paradigms is a currently untapped opportunity for medical schools and healthcare organizations to potentially mitigate existing and emerging discriminatory and hateful conduct , " they added .
