<p> An Israeli airstrike flattened a multistory building in central Gaza , killing at least 25 people and wounding dozens more , according to Palestinian medical officials , after strikes Thursday across the Gaza Strip killed at least 28 others . <p> The latest deadly strike hit the Nuseirat refugee camp just hours after President Biden 's national security advisor , Jake Sullivan , told reporters in Jerusalem that the recent cease-fire between Israel and the militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon has helped clear the way for a potential deal to end the war in Gaza between Israel and Hamas . <p> Images from the Gaza blast showed a collapsed building with people walking through its mangled and charred remains , smoke rising from piles of belongings strewn over the rubble . <p> Advertisement <p> Officials at two Gaza hospitals , Al Awda Hospital in the north and the central Al Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , reported receiving a combined total of 25 bodies from the strike . Palestinian medics said more than 40 people , mostly children , were being treated at the hospitals . Al Aqsa hospital said that the Israeli attack also damaged several nearby houses in Nuseirat . <p> There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military on the strike . Israel is trying to eliminate Hamas militants , whom Israel says hide among Gaza 's civilian population . <p> Among other strikes were two that killed 15 men who were part of local committees established to secure aid convoys . The committees were set up by displaced Palestinians in coordination with the Hamas-run Interior Ministry . The Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Yunis received the bodies and an Associated Press reporter counted them . The hospital said eight had been killed in a strike near the southern border town of Rafah and seven others in a strike 30 minutes later near Khan Yunis . <p> Advertisement <p> The Israel-Hamas war in Gaza began when the militant group attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing about 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 people . About 100 hostages are still in Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's offensive has killed more than 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed more than 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The fighting has plunged Gaza into a severe humanitarian crisis , with experts warning of famine . Israel says it allows enough aid to enter and blames U.N . agencies for not distributing it . The United Nations says Israeli restrictions , and the breakdown of law and order after Israel repeatedly targeted the Hamas-run police force , make it extremely difficult to operate in the territory . <p> Syria now searches for a new identity , as Damascus residents face a future without President Bashar Assad . <p> Dec. 9 , 2024 <h> U.S. official says truce in Lebanon may help seal Gaza cease-fire <p> Sullivan , Biden 's security advisor , has dismissed speculation that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was waiting for President-elect Donald Trump to take office to finalize a cease-fire deal . He said the U.S. believes three American hostages are still alive in Gaza , but it 's hard to know for sure . <p> He plans to travel next to Qatar and Egypt -- key mediators in the cease-fire talks -- as the Biden administration makes its final push on negotiations . <p> He also said during a trip to Jerusalem that " the balance of power in the Middle East has changed significantly " since the Hamas attack on Israel , especially with the overthrow of Syrian President Bashar Assad , a key ally of Hezbollah and Iran . <p> " We are now faced with a dramatically reshaped Middle East in which Israel is stronger , Iran is weaker , its proxies decimated , and a cease-fire that is new and will be lasting in Lebanon that ensures Israel 's security over the long term , " he said . <h> Blinken urges players in Syria to avoid steps that could lead to violence <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken is urging the many players in Syria to avoid taking any steps that could lead to further violence . <p> Blinken spoke to reporters in Jordan on Thursday shortly after meeting King Abdullah II as he began his trip to the region to discuss Syria 's future . Blinken will next visit Turkey , a NATO ally and a main backer of Syrian rebel groups . He called this " a time of both real promise but also peril for Syria and for its neighbors . " <p> Advertisement <p> The secretary of State said he was focused on coordinating efforts in the region " to support the Syrian people as they transition away from Assad 's brutal dictatorship " and establish a government that is n't dominated by one religion or ethnic group or outside power . <p> Blinken was asked about Israel 's incursion into a buffer zone that had been demilitarized for half a century . Netanyahu says the move is temporary and defensive but has indicated Israel will remain in the area for a long time . Blinken declined to say whether the U.S. supports the move but said the U.S. would be speaking to Israel and other partners in the region . <p> " I think , across the board , when it comes to any actors who have real interests in Syria , it 's also really important at this time that we all try to make sure that we 're not sparking any additional conflicts , " he said . <h> American who says he crossed into Syria by foot is free after detention <p> An American who turned up in Syria on Thursday says he was detained after crossing into the country by foot on a Christian pilgrimage seven months ago . Travis Timmerman appears to have been among thousands released from the country 's notorious prisons . <p> In a video that emerged online , Timmerman could be seen lying on a mattress in what appeared to be a house . A group of men in the video said he was being treated well . The Biden administration is working to bring Timmerman home , Blinken said . <p> In an interview with Al Arabiya TV network , Timmerman said he was treated well in detention but could hear other men being tortured .
