<p> Coming off a year that debuted indie successes ranging from box office winner Thelma to Oscar contender A Real Pain , the Sundance Film Festival has announced its official 2025 lineup , complete with big stars and beloved filmmakers . <p> Perhaps the most eye-popping title on the list , Bill Condon 's musical take on Kiss of the Spider Woman will debut in the Premieres section of the festival only a few months after completing filming . The project is based on Terrence McNally 's Broadway hit , which swept the Tonys back in the ' 90s ; Manuel Puig 's original 1976 novel of the same name previously spawned an Oscar-winning 1985 film starring William Hurt and S ? nia Braga . Best known for his Oscar-nominated Chicago screenplay and for directing Dreamgirls , Condon cast Diego Luna and Jennifer Lopez in Spider Woman 's lead roles . <p> The Premieres selection sees the return of several Sundance favorites . Ira Sachs , whose last movie , Passages , premiered in Park City before going on to receive Indie Spirit and Gotham award nominations for best feature , is back with Peter Hujar 's Day.Passages ' Ben Whishaw portrays the iconic eponymous photographer opposite Rebecca Hall as his friend Linda Rosenkrantz.Sing Sing 's Greg Kwedar and Clint Bentley are back with Train Dreams , an elegiac turn-of-the-century character study set against the American railroad system and starring awards darlings Joel Edgerton , Felicity Jones , and Kerry Condon.Fire Island director Andrew Ahn is also returning to Sundance for the first time since his feature debut , Spa Nights , with his anticipated remake of The Wedding Banquet , led by Lily Gladstone , Bowen Yang , and Kelly Marie Tran . Other stars figuring into Premieres with juicy lead roles include Benedict Cumberbatch ( The Thing With Feathers ) , Rose Byrne ( If I Had Legs I 'd Kick You ) , Olivia Colman ( Jimpa ) , and Chlo ? Sevigny ( Magic Farm ) . <p> Benedict Cumberbatch in The Thing With Feathers <p> Anthony Dickenson <p> Over in the US Dramatic Competition section , major producers have put their weight behind several promising first-time feature filmmakers . Eva Victor stars in her own movie , Sorry , Baby , backed by Moonlight Oscar winners Barry Jenkins and Adele Romanski . Award-winning actor Andr ? Holland ranks among the producers of Rachael Abigail Holder 's Love , Brooklyn , a portrait of friendship in a changing city that also stars Holland alongside Nicole Beharie and DeWanda Wise . And the buzzy war satire Atropia , written and directed by Hailey Gates , is produced by her Challengers director , Luca Guadagnino . ( The film stars Alia Shawkat and Callum Turner . ) There 's plenty of fun to be had in the Midnights section too , which spotlights horror and genre fare : Ayo Edebiri top-lines the A24 chamber thriller Opus , while spouses Alison Brie and Dave Franco get trippy in Together . <p> Over in the nonfiction selection , Marlee Matlin gets the documentary treatment in Shoshannah Stern 's Not Alone Anymore , while David Osit 's Predators examines the complex phenomenon of the series To Catch a Predator . Multiple films delving into the Israel-Gaza war will also bow in Park City . The documentary Coexistence , My Ass ! follows the comedian Noam Shuster-Eliassi struggling to explore the topic in a one-person show , while Cherien Dabis 's narrative feature All That 's Left of You examines the events surrounding a Palestinian teen 's confrontation with Israeli soldiers at a protest in the West Bank . <p> All eyes will be on Sundance next year as the festival makes a final decision on its potential move out of Park City -- and as it continues to refine its innovative hybrid model of in-person and digital screenings , which has expanded access for attendees since the COVID-19 pandemic . See the full program and more information here . <h> David Canfield <h> Hollywood Correspondent <p> David Canfield is a Hollywood correspondent at Vanity Fair , where he reports on awards season and co-hosts the Little Gold Men podcast . He joined VF from Entertainment Weekly , where he was the movies editor and oversaw awards coverage , and has also written for Vulture , Slate , and IndieWire . David is a ... Read more
