<h> " By legally intervening in South Africa 's case , Ireland will be asking the ICJ to broaden its interpretation of what constitutes the commission of genocide by a State , " the announcement read . <p> Delegates attend a ruling on South Africa 's request to order a halt to Israel 's Rafah offensive in Gaza as part of a larger case brought before the Hague-based court by South Africa accusing Israel of genocide , at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , in The Hague , Netherlands May 24 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Johanna Geron ) <p> Ireland 's Tanaiste and Foreign Affairs Minister Michael Martin received government approval for Ireland to intervene in South Africa 's case against Israel at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) under the Genocide Convention , Ireland 's Foreign Affairs Department announced on Wednesday . <p> " By legally intervening in South Africa 's case , Ireland will be asking the ICJ to broaden its interpretation of what constitutes the commission of genocide by a State , " the department said in a statement . <p> " We are concerned that a very narrow interpretation of what constitutes genocide leads to a culture of impunity in which the protection of civilians is minimized . " <p> " There has been a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced , " the statement read , citing an unconfirmed death toll provided by the Hamas-controlled Gaza Health Ministry . <p> " Ireland 's view of the convention is broader and prioritizes the protection of civilian life , " the statement continued , " Intervening in both cases demonstrates the consistency of Ireland 's approach to the interpretation and application of the Genocide Convention . " Tanaiste Micheal Martin leaves the Grand Central Hotel on January 31 , 2024 in Belfast , United Kingdom . ( credit : CHARLES MCQUILLAN/GETTY IMAGES ) <h> Approval for additional intervention <p> The government also approved intervention in the Gambia 's case against Myanmar under the same convention . <p> Ireland previously signaled that it would intervene in the ongoing case , with Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin saying in March that it was for the ICJ to decide whether genocide is being committed . <p> In January , the ICJ ordered Israel to refrain from any acts that could fall under the Genocide Convention .
