<h> 2024 in Photos : A Look at the Middle Months <p> As the end of the year approaches , here is a look back at some of the major news moments of 2024 . Events covered in this essay ( the second of a three-part photo summary of the year ) include the opening of the Paris Olympics , widespread flooding in Brazil , an assassination attempt on the presidential candidate Donald Trump , and much more . Check back tomorrow for the last installment , and be sure to see the first part and our " Top 25 News Photos of 2024 . " <p> To receive an email notification every time new photo stories are published , sign up here . <p> A performer floats above supporters , attached to a cluster of helium balloons , above the Marques do Pombal Square in Lisbon , on May 6 , 2024 , to celebrate the champions of the Portuguese football league. # <p> The Crowder family sorts through and recovers items after their home was struck by a tornado on May 7 , 2024 , in Barnsdall , Oklahoma . Barnsdall , a town of about 1,000 people , was struck by an EF3 tornado just one week after the state was hit with a slew of deadly tornados. # <p> Medical students operate on a teddy bear together with children from the Weing ? rten day-care center in a real operating theater in a former emergency room at the University Hospital in Halle , Germany , on May 11 , 2024 . The Teddy Bear Hospital in Halle stands out because it uses an entire former hospital wing with several real operating theaters on the Steintor Medical Campus . The aim of the project is to playfully take away children 's fear of visiting a doctor. # <p> An aircraft sits on the flooded tarmac at Porto Alegre -- Salgado Filho International Airport , in Porto Alegre , Brazil , on May 20 , 2024 . More than 600,000 people were displaced by the heavy rain , flooding , and mudslides that ravaged the region for about two weeks. # <p> Leonie Hanne poses on the red carpet before the screening of the animated film La Plus Pr ? cieuse des Marchandises ( " The Most Precious of Cargoes " ) in competition at the 77th Cannes Film Festival , on May 24 , 2024. # <p> A young girl surrounded by people cries after identifying a member of her family among the dead at al-Maamadani hospital , following an Israeli strike that killed more than 90 people in a school sheltering displaced Palestinians , in Gaza City , on August 10 , 2024. # <p> Novak Djokovic of Serbia slides near the net for a forehand against Francisco Cerundolo of Argentina in a men 's singles fourth-round match during French Open at Roland Garros on June 3 , 2024 , in Paris. # <p> Bernard Morgan , 100 , a veteran of the British Royal Air Force , visits war graves in Bayeux , France , on June 5 , 2024 , ahead of the Royal British Legion Service 's plans to commemorate the 80th anniversary of D-Day. # <p> An unidentified fan is tased by a police officer as he runs on the field before the ninth inning of the game between the Cincinnati Reds and the Cleveland Guardians at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati , Ohio , on June 11 , 2024. # <p> Supporters cheer as former U.S. President and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump arrives to speak during a campaign rally at the Historic Greenbrier Farms in Chesapeake , Virginia , on June 28 , 2024. # <p> An armored woman on a robotic horse carries the Olympic flag across the Seine during the opening ceremony in Paris on July 26 , 2024 . The rider , played by Floriane Issert , a noncommissioned officer of the National Gendarmerie , was meant to represent the Olympic spirit and Sequana , goddess of the river and a symbol of resistance. # <p> Following the Parade of Nations on the Seine , athletes and spectators watch as lasers light up the sky around the Eiffel Tower , at the Trocad ? ro venue , during the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games on July 26 , 2024. # <p> Team Australia 's Kevin McNab , riding the horse Don Quidam , clears a fence shaped like a stag 's head during the equestrian cross-country leg during the Olympic Games at Chateau de Versailles , in Versailles , France. # <p> The journalist Evan Gershkovich , followed by his mother , Ella Milman , smiles as he arrives at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland on August 1 , 2024 . Gershkovich and fellow prisoners released by Russia landed in the United States late that day , as part of an extraordinary swap deal struck between Washington and Moscow . Gershkovich , the former U.S. marine Paul Whelan , and the journalist Alsu Kurmasheva landed at were greeted by President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris after landing. # <p> Vice President Kamala Harris speaks to supporters during a campaign rally at West Allis Central High School on July 23 , 2024 , in West Allis , Wisconsin . Harris was making her first campaign appearance as the Democratic Party 's presidential candidate , with an endorsement from President Joe Biden. # <p> Participants attempt to catch Asian carp in nets as they compete in Betty DeFord 's Original Redneck Fishin ' Tournament in the Illinois River on August 3 , 2024 , in Bath , Illinois . The annual tournament targets Asian carp ( also known as copi or silver carp ) , which is an invasive species in the river that has been destructive to the natural ecosystem and hazardous to boaters because of the propensity of the fish to leap up to 10 feet out of the water when spooked by vibrations from boat motors . Participants use only nets to try and catch the fish while they are airborne . Proceeds from the tournament are used to help homeless veterans , and the captured fish are processed into fertilizer. #
