<p> Dozens of Jewish medical professionals participated in a MedEx event in Los Angeles that aims to integrate more doctors into the Israeli workforce , Nefesh B'Nefesh announced in a statement on Monday . <p> The joint initiative between the Ministry of Aliyah and Integration , the Ministry of Health , Nefesh B'Nefesh , and The Jewish Agency for Israel aims to recruit 2,000 Jewish doctors to Israel in the next five years , according to Nefesh B'Nefesh . Sign up for our newsletter to learn more &gt;&gt; <p> Healthcare representatives from organizations and companies such as Ichilov , Hadassah , Clalit , and the Northern Medical Center conducted real-time job interviews at the event , the statement said . Attendees met with representatives from the Israeli Ministry of Health and Medical Directorate to discuss licensing , job opportunities , and relocation grants . <p> Aliyah and Integration Minister Ofir Sofer said this joint effort will strengthen the Israeli healthcare system with a focus on the Negev and Galilee . <p> " The MedEx events provide an important platform to encourage doctors to make Aliyah , while offering assistance to navigate the process , " Sofer said . " It is heartwarming to see the significant interest from doctors in particular , and by Jews in general , to make aliyah during this time of war . This is a profound expression of Zionism and a demonstration of solidarity with the citizens of Israel . " DOCTORS LOOKING to make aliyah attend the London MedEx exposition last month . ( credit : SHAHAR AZRAN ) <h> " Aliyah is a growth machine " <p> Maj.-Gen. ( ret . ) Doron Almog , the chairman of the Jewish Agency , said he welcomed the initiative and hopes it will lead to many Jews making aliyah . <p> " Aliyah is a growth engine , and the integration of more Jews into the actions and endeavors of the State of Israel , in medicine and other fields , is an essential part of its rebuilding and development , " Almog said . <p> An emphasis was placed on employment in cities in Israel 's periphery because of new grant programs from the Ministry of the Negev , Galilee and National Resilience , and the government administration in the Gaza border areas , according to the press statement . <p> " Our MedEx events reflect our shared commitment to addressing Israel 's healthcare needs while empowering Jewish medical professionals in their Aliyah journeys , " said Tony Gelbart , the co-founder and chairman of Nefesh B'Nefesh . " These medical professionals are embarking on a transformative path that will enrich their lives and strengthen Israel 's healthcare system . And as such , we are committed to ensuring that their Aliyah and integration processes are as smooth and successful as possible . " <p> Sunday 's event was part of MedEx 's newly founded International Medical Aliyah Program ( IMAP ) . <p> Key partners include the Ministry of the Negev , Galilee , and National Resilience , the Marcus Foundation , the Gottesman Foundation , and the Jewish Federation of North America . <p> Similar events were previously held in cities such as London , Paris , and Buenos Aires . Notably , the Sunday Los Angeles event marked the first time the MedEx fair was brought to a West Coast US city . Nefesh B'Nefesh held an aliyah fair alongside the medical professionals event .
