<p> Tanks stand after rebels led by HTS have sought to capitalize on their swift takeover of Aleppo in the north and Hama in west-central Syria by pressing onwards to Homs , in Hama , Syria December 6 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <p> Israel 's concern that the instability in Syria could spill over into its territory has led it to major action in the neighboring country , essentially opening an additional front in the multi-front war it has been engaged in for fourteen months . <p> Over the weekend , the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) took control of the demilitarized buffer zone in Syria that was established as part of a 1974 cease-fire reached between the two hostile countries . <p> In that buffer zone is Mt . Hermon 's highest peak , the highest point on the east coast of the Mediterranean Sea . <p> " The territory guarantees strategic control over the whole southern Syrian arena , which generates an immediate threat to Israel , " Kobi Michael , a researcher at INSS and the Misgav Institute for National Security and Zionist Strategy , told The Media Line . " There is no higher vantage point than the Syrian part of the Golan . " <p> Power in Syria is now de-centralized , with the country fragmented between several groups , most of them extreme Islamist , potentially posing a new array of threats to Israel . A rebel fighter sits on the back of a vehicle in Homs countryside , after Syrian rebels pressed on in their lightning advance on Saturday . ( credit : REUTERS/Mahmoud Hasano ) <p> " Israel is not looking to apply sovereignty to the buffer zone , but rather to militarily control the area in order to prevent danger under conditions of instability , " Michael assessed . <p> Israeli officials have emphasized the tactical nature of the move , which also likely stems from the trauma from the surprise attack executed by the Hamas terrorist attack on its border with Gaza last year . <p> " For decades , the Israeli security establishment considered the border with Syria its quietest and closely associated to the Assad regime , " Dr. Joel Parker , a researcher from the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies at Tel Aviv University , told The Media Line . " Assad is the devil Israel knows , but at the same time , with the de-facto commitment to non-aggression with Syria , Israel watched it build up military abilities , including the development of chemical weapons , to levels that were far beyond when the armistice line was created . " <p> In 2007 , however , Israel carried out an airstrike against a suspected Syrian nuclear site . Years later , it took responsibility for the attack . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would not allow its neighbors to develop nuclear weapons . Syria denied the site was a nuclear reactor . <h> Taking advantage of internal chaos <p> Now , Israel is taking advantage of the internal chaos . The Israeli military swiftly entered Syria , apparently reaching deep into its territory and taking control of the peak of Mount Hermon , which allows for an advantageous view of both Syria and Lebanon . Reportedly , the army also conducted airstrikes in Syria against sites that stored unconventional weapons , air-defense systems , and navy vessels . Video on social media showed explosions in various cities and pictures of alleged Syrian Air Force bases destroyed . <p> " This is an unprecedented event in which the Israeli army has the ability to completely destroy an enemy army without a war , " said Michael . " This opportunity is being used wisely by Israel in order to ensure a better reality . " <p> The IDF only confirmed it had entered the buffer zone and was holding positions there , denying reports its forces were approaching the capital , Damascus . This offensive has so far gone without a response from Syria or any of the factions currently holding control . <p> Israel captured part of the Golan Heights from Syria during the 1967 Mideast war . It annexed the territories in a move that was considered illegal by most of the international community , which still considers the territory Syrian . In 2019 , the US departed from decades of policy and recognized Israel 's sovereignty over the territory . The other part of the mountainous area remained in Syria 's control . UN forces have patrolled the buffer zone since the 1974 agreement . <p> " The Golan Heights will be an inseparable part of the State of Israel forever , " said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at a press conference he held on Monday night , indicating his country 's intentions . <p> Netanyahu defined the movement into the buffer zone as temporary , but in the Middle East , what often begins as temporary often becomes permanent . The UN said the move violated international agreements . Arab leaders condemned it , and a spokesperson for the US State Department said that while it expected the move to be temporary , the US understood Israeli motives . <p> " The Syrian army abandoned its positions in the area ... which potentially creates a vacuum that could have been filled by terrorist organizations that would threaten the state of Israel ... every country has the right to take action against terrorist organizations , and every country , I think , would be worried about a possible vacuum that could be filled by terrorist organizations on its border , especially in volatile times , as we obviously are in right now in Syria , " said Matthew Miller . <p> Israel is concerned that the different groups that are now clamoring for power in Syria after the regime of President Bashar Assad collapsed will be hostile . Abu Mohammed al-Golani , who led the insurgency against Assad , is a former Al-Qaida terrorist who claims he has reformed and abandoned extremism . Classified by the US as a terrorist and previously imprisoned for his activities , he has been associated with the extremist Islamic State of Iraq , led by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi . <p> Al-Golani leads Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , or the Organization for Liberating Syria . Videos on social media earlier this week showed HTS members vowing to help Palestinians in Gaza act against Israel and liberate Jerusalem from Israeli control . <p> " What is known about al-Golani poses red flags for Israel , " said Parker . " He is the new kid on the block , associated with many jihadist operatives in the world , which has access to almost unlimited manpower . His charisma , his jihadi ideology , and his current control in Syria have Israel wanting him not to have access to chemical weapons , ballisticmissiles , and even helicopters . " <p> When the swift insurgency began , the Israeli army already put its forces on high alert , sending reinforcements . <p> " There is no way to tell where this is going , " said Michael . " Israel could be facing a difficult reality that will force it to stay and broaden its hold on territory , perhaps even act more forcefully in order to pre-empt danger . " <p> The collapse of the Assad regime is one of the most significant shifts to occur in the Middle East in decades . While Israel and Syria were sworn enemies under both Bashar Assad and his father , there was stability in the relationship , which has now been rattled . While this has removed Iranian presence from Israel 's border , it could be replaced by extreme Islam , which is also not favorable to the Jewish state .
