<h> Opinion : Assad 's Syria was brutal . Will what comes next be better ? <h> It is hard not to worry that Syrians ' sense of deep relief today could be followed by a new set of horrors tomorrow . <p> By Daniel Byman For The New York Times <p> Dec. 10 , 2024 , 1:00 p.m . <p> It is hard not to rejoice while watching images of ecstatic Syrians toppling statues from the regime of the deposed dictator Bashar al-Assad and hearing the shouts of joy of prisoners , many of whom may have been tortured and starved , released from his dungeons . Mr. al-Assad 's Syria was brutal for the regime 's opponents , and 13 years of civil war and a kleptocratic regime made life dangerous and miserable for ordinary Syrians . In addition to striking a blow for human freedom , Mr. al-Assad 's fall also removes an Iranian-backed , anti-American and anti-Israel dictator from the Middle East chessboard . <p> And yet it is hard not to also feel uneasy . Having watched similar images of Afghans freed from the Taliban 's violent rule in 2001 and jubilant Iraqis in 2003 after the fall of Saddam Hussein , one worries that Syrians ' sense of deep relief today could be followed by a new set of horrors tomorrow . <p> One of the biggest uncertainties facing Syrians and the country 's neighbors is the true nature of their liberators . Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( H.T.S. ) has led the latest round of anti-regime offensives to victory , and it is now the dominant player among the diverse opposition that formed against Mr. al-Assad over his 24 years in power . The United States has designated H.T.S. and its leader , Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , as terrorists ; there is even a $10 million price on Mr. Jolani 's head . <p> H.T.S. , like the Islamic State , grew out of Jabhat al-Nusra , which in turn emerged from Al Qaeda in Iraq . Mr. Jolani was initially loyal to Al Qaeda when ISIS split from it but , in 2016 , he publicly rejected the organization and formed H.T.S. a year later . Mr. Jolani has repeatedly stated that he opposes foreign terrorist attacks and rejects an ISIS-type caliphate , and in H.T.S.-controlled areas he has tried to suppress fighters loyal to Al Qaeda and ISIS . This is encouraging , but it is also possible that the H.T.S. leader has merely been pragmatic , turning against these groups temporarily in a bid for power , and could be willing to work with them once again in the future . <p> How whatever government takes shape will govern Syria 's diverse population is another open question . Mr. Jolani has told Christian , Druse , and other minority leaders that they are free to worship , but his followers remain committed to an extreme version of Islam , and the group 's track record is mixed . The U.S. State Department reports that H.T.S. has committed human rights abuses against minorities and seized the property of displaced Christians . In parts of the country that have been under its control , H.T.S. has placed limits on public displays of Christianity , even when it tolerated Christian worship . <p> Even if H.T.S. itself reins in its most extreme elements , the Islamic State may grow in power . Well before the latest offensive , the Islamic State was on pace in 2024 to double its number of attacks in Iraq and Syria during 2023 . It now has an estimated 2,500 fighters in Iraq and Syria , with established training camps in remote areas . Thousands of Islamic State fighters are also detained in Syria , and some may be released . As various opposition groups scramble for power , the Islamic State may gain more territory and freedom for its operations . <p> It 's unclear whether H.T.S. will be able to consolidate power , cooperate with rivals , and form a stable government . It is the strongest opposition group in Syria now , but it is not the only one . The United States has long worked with the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces to fight the Islamic State , maintaining around 900 troops there . The S.D.F. seized more territory as regime forces fell apart , and in other parts of the country , local militias also took advantage of the chaos . A unified government may emerge from all this , but in the short term at least it is more likely that different groups will dominate different parts of the country and , if the past is any guide , may end up turning their guns on one another in the struggle for power . <p> It is possible that H.T.S. and the other militia groups , as well as local residents , could take revenge on Mr. al-Assad 's supporters and minority communities , especially the Alawites , who made up the core of the Assad regime . To bolster his power , Mr. al-Assad assembled a coalition of Alawite , Christian , Druse , and other minorities to offset the demographic strength of the country 's Sunni Muslim majority . Now that power in much of the country is back in Sunni hands , the once-marginalized may turn on those they see as their former oppressors . It 's happened before : In 2003 , Iraqis began to hunt down members of the Baath Party whom they blamed for the regime 's atrocities . Syrians have good reason to hate the people who tortured and oppressed them , but in these situations it is too often innocent family and community members , not the truly guilty , who are punished . <p> If chaos , revenge , and infighting consume parts of Syria , the humanitarian situation may get worse , not better . The war has led to almost seven million people displaced within Syria and over five million refugees . The good news is that many of those refugees , who have been living in Turkey , Lebanon , and other countries , may return , but communities linked to Mr. al-Assad may flee en masse if they are targeted . They will need help in their host countries , which are already strained , while those returning will come home to destroyed cities and a defunct economy that will take decades to rebuild . <p> The world , however , is in no mood to help . On Saturday , President-elect Donald Trump tweeted , " DO NOT GET INVOLVED ! " The wars in Ukraine , Sudan and Gaza all demand the world 's resources , and Western governments will be particularly leery of working with H.T.S. , even for humanitarian reasons . <p> Although humanitarian support will likely be limited , the instability of Syria is likely to lead to military action by other governments in the region as they jockey to reposition themselves . Both Iran and Russia are withdrawing their forces , making it easier for other states to operate and furthering the power vacuum in the country . Turkey is particularly concerned about the Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces and may act militarily to weaken them . And Israel will almost certainly fear that the Assad regime , the devil it knew , will be replaced by a new force that may be less deterrable . Indeed , Jolani is the H.T.S. leader 's nom de guerre , highlighting his ties to the Golan Heights that was once part of Syria and that Israel annexed in 1981 . Israelis may also worry that Hezbollah or other Iranian-linked organizations will take advantage of the situation to conduct operations against Israel . <p> All this will make it harder for any government to control the country and impose order . <p> If the outgoing and incoming administrations in Washington want to avoid more regional proxy wars , a new humanitarian crisis and a potential terrorist haven , the next few months should involve careful diplomacy while maintaining -- and ideally increasing -- the U.S. military presence in the area . U.S. leaders should work with allies to press H.T.S. on its commitment to stopping terrorism and ensuring human rights , work with regional partners like Turkey and Israel to discourage their meddling , and coordinate a broad humanitarian response . <p> We all can hope that Syria is putting its horrific past behind it , but hope is not a policy . Brutal regimes and devastating civil wars have long legacies . A focused U.S. effort can alleviate some of Syria 's problems , even if it can not solve them completely . <p> Daniel Byman is the director of the Warfare , Irregular Threats , and Terrorism Program at CSIS and a professor in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University . This article originally appeared in The New York Times .
