<h> 2024 in Photos : Wrapping Up the Year <p> As the end of the year approaches , here is a look back at some of the major news moments of 2024 . Events covered in this essay ( the last of a three-part photo summary of the year ) include Hurricanes Helene and Milton striking southeastern United States , a famous pygmy hippo named Moo Deng , the fall of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad , and much more . Be sure to check out the first part , the second part , and our " Top 25 News Photos of 2024 . " <p> To receive an email notification every time new photo stories are published , sign up here . <p> Gold medalist Mauricio Valencia of Team Colombia poses for a photo during the medal ceremony for the men 's shot-put F34 final on day 10 of the Paris 2024 Summer Paralympic Games , on September 7 , 2024 . Valencia had his canine teeth modified to look like fangs in order to break down any stereotypes people may have about Paralympic athletes . He says , " I did n't want to have the same smile as the rest of the world . I 've always said that Paralympic sport has to be a spectacle . " # <p> A man takes cover behind a column as an explosion blasts out dust and debris during an Israeli strike that reportedly targeted a school in the Zeitoun district , on the outskirts of Gaza City , on September 1 , 2024. # <p> Andre Summermatter , a shepherd and an agricultural engineer , leads sheep up a steep climb during the annual " Sch ? ful " sheep drive in high alpine meadows , near the Oberaletsch and Grosser Aletsch glaciers , in Switzerland , on September 7 , 2024. # <p> Competitors practice their moves before taking part in the U.K. Hobby Horse Championship at Bury Farm Equestrian Center on September 8 , 2024 , in Slapton , England . Although hobbyhorsing as a form of play has been around for centuries , the modern-day interpretation of the sport originated in Finland . Hobbyhorse competitions feature young enthusiasts trotting , galloping , and cantering on toy horses in various disciplines , such as jumping and dressage . Its popularity has surged in recent years , especially during the early pandemic. # <p> A former prisoner of war returns to meet his family on September 14 , 2024 , in the Chernihiv Region , Ukraine . This was the 57th exchange of prisoners since the beginning of Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. # <p> Starship 's Super Heavy Booster is grappled at the launchpad in Starbase , near Boca Chica , Texas , on October 13 , 2024 , during the Starship Flight 5 test . SpaceX successfully " caught " the first-stage booster of its Starship megarocket as it returned to the launchpad after a test flight , a world first in the company 's quest for rapid reusability. # <p> The Duke Energy project manager Tiger Yates ( at center in bottom of photo ) walks among hundreds of lineman trucks staged at the Villages , Florida , on October 8 , 2024 . Thousands of trucks were staged and deployed after Hurricane Milton hit Florida. # <p> A polar bear and its cub search for scraps in a large pile of bowhead-whale bones left over from the village 's subsistence hunting , at the end of an unused airstrip near the village of Kaktovik , Alaska , on October 15 , 2024. # <p> Olya , a member of the Gang of Angels , a volunteer group that makes camouflage netting for the Armed Forces of Ukraine , poses with a sniper camouflage net on October 13 , 2024 , in Odesa , Ukraine . Demand for these nets is high , with numerous orders from brigades stationed on the front lines . Soldiers send photos of their surroundings , and the volunteers select fabric colors to match the environment when creating the camouflage netting. # <p> A man prepares to toss a bag of bread to another person , as people crowd while queueing for bread outside a bakery in Khan Younis , in the southern Gaza Strip , on October 23 , 2024 , amid a flour shortage during the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas. # <p> Fans Austin Capobianco ( left ) and John Peter ( right ) interfere with Mookie Betts of the Los Angeles Dodgers as he attempts to catch a fly ball in foul territory during the first inning of Game Four of the 2024 World Series against the New York Yankees , at Yankee Stadium , on October 29 , 2024 . The play resulted in an out , and the two fans were ejected from the stadium and banned from attending the following game. # <p> Supporters of former U.S. President Donald Trump celebrate as Fox News declares him the next president of the United States , during an Election Night event at the West Palm Beach Convention Center , in West Palm Beach , Florida , on November 6 , 2024. # <p> Indigenous activists stage a protest to demand action on climate change , holding large cutouts of the heads of U.S. President Joe Biden , Chinese President Xi Jinping , European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi , Russian President Vladimir Putin , and Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba on the waters of Botafogo Bay , ahead of the G20 Summit , in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil , on November 16 , 2024. # <p> A drone view shows supporters of Senegal 's prime minister and Ousmane Sonko , the head of the ruling Pastef party , attending a campaign rally for the upcoming early legislative election , in Guediawaye , on the outskirts of Dakar , Senegal , on November 13 , 2024. # <p> Crowds gather during a protest near the parliament building over the results of last month 's parliamentary election , on December 6 , 2024 , in Tbilisi , Georgia . The country 's president , Salome Zourabichvili , alleges that last month 's parliamentary election , which was won by the ruling Georgian Dream party , was " stolen " amid Russian interference. # <p> An aerial view of traffic around Umayyad Square , in Damascus , Syria , on December 10 , 2024 , as residents gathered to celebrate the end of the regime of President Bashar al-Assad , after he fled the country following a rapid advance by rebel groups. #
