<h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> " The minimum wage back home was $7.25 , and here , that 's a coffee . " That 's Jillian McGeehin , a small-town student now attending the University of Chicago . Today 's story by Kelly Field looks at why relatively few rural students go to top colleges -- and what can be done about it . Elite colleges have widened America 's cultural rifts . Kelly 's story considers the idea that , in reaching out to rural America , maybe they can be a part of the solution , too . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <p> Within hours of Syrian rebels entering Damascus Sunday , President Joe Biden was on national television laying out preemptive military actions and pledging continued U.S. engagement in Syria . The fall of the Assad regime is " a moment of risk and uncertainty , " he said , pledging the U.S. would " work with our partners in Syria " and " remain vigilant . " <p> Indeed , for many regional observers , this moment presents a number of opportunities not imagined even a week ago , including , most ambitiously , containing Iran 's nuclear program . But the U.S. will only be able to exploit those opportunities with hands-on engagement , diplomats say . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> The fall of Syria 's autocratic leader Bashar al-Assad has created challenges and opportunities for the United States . But the dissonance between the current and future U.S. administrations is confusing major players in the Middle East . <p> The U.S. has already carried out dozens of strikes against weapons sites in Syria , yet U.S. allies and adversaries alike may wonder if a last flourish of action by Mr. Biden will be followed by an inward turn by the Trump White House . <p> John Hannah , who served both Democratic and Republican administrations , says , " We 're in this odd situation where it 's not exactly clear what U.S. policy is at a time of tremendous flux and opportunities . " <p> Within hours of Syrian rebels entering Damascus Sunday and forcing autocratic leader Bashar al-Assad into exile , President Joe Biden was on national television laying out preemptive military actions and pledging continued U.S. engagement as Syrians chart a new path forward . <p> The fall of the Assad regime " is a moment of historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria , " Mr. Biden said . Adding that it is " also a moment of risk and uncertainty , " he pledged the U.S. would " work with our partners in Syria " and " remain vigilant . " <p> The president said the roughly 900 U.S. troops in eastern Syria tasked with preventing a resurgence of the Islamic State ( ISIS ) , will remain on the ground , assuring that the vacuum of power did not open the door to new forms of Islamist extremism . <h> Why We Wrote This <p> The fall of Syria 's autocratic leader Bashar al-Assad has created challenges and opportunities for the United States . But the dissonance between the current and future U.S. administrations is confusing major players in the Middle East . <p> Then Tuesday John Kirby , the White House national security communications adviser , announced that President Biden was dispatching national security adviser Jake Sullivan to the region to address both Syria and Gaza ceasefire and hostage issues . Also this week , Secretary of State Antony Blinken will visit Turkey , which is backing an insurgent faction that has clashed in northeast Syria with U.S.-backed Kurds , and Jordan . <p> The flurry of activity -- and the commitment to remain intensely involved in a roiling Middle East -- contrasts sharply with the message sent so far by President-elect Donald Trump in response to the Syria crisis . <p> As rebel forces swept southward toward Damascus last week , Mr. Trump jumped on social media to trumpet the hands-off approach that could become the guiding principle of his Middle East policy and broader foreign policy vision . <h> " We 're in this odd situation " <p> The dissonance between the current and future U.S. administrations is confusing major players in the region and raising questions about U.S. ties going forward , some Mideast policy experts say . <p> " This comes at a very awkward time in a presidential transition , " says Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East program at the center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington . " Trump 's stated goal is remaining aloof from the conflict in Syria , but many U.S. allies have acute interests at stake while the potential for problems ... to metastasize is large . " <p> Orhan Qereman/Reuters <p> U.S. military vehicles drive in Hasaka , Syria , Dec. 6 , 2024 . President Biden says the roughly 900 U.S. troops in eastern Syria tasked with preventing a resurgence of the Islamic State will remain on the ground . <p> Perhaps most worrisome for the U.S. among the problems that could spread from a destabilized Syria is international terrorism . ISIS had been regaining strength in Syria even before Mr. Assad 's fall , with counterterrorism experts reporting a multiplication of attacks by the group over the past month . <p> The U.S. has already carried out dozens of strikes against weapons sites in Syria -- and will remain ready to take further action against assets threatening regional stability , including a regrouping ISIS , administration officials say . <p> Yet U.S. allies and adversaries alike may wonder , experts and former diplomats say , if a last flourish of action by Mr. Biden will be followed by an inward turn and much higher threshold for international engagement by the Trump White House . <p> " We 're in this odd situation where it 's not exactly clear what U.S. policy is at a time of tremendous flux and opportunities , " says John Hannah , who served in senior national security positions in both Democratic and Republican administrations . <h> Concern for opportunities lost <p> Indeed for many regional observers , this moment presents a number of opportunities not imagined even a week ago . They range from seeing an end to Russia 's military presence in Syria to undoing the chokehold Iran-backed Houthi rebels have had on international trade routes off the coast of Yemen . But the U.S. will only be able to exploit them -- and accurately assess the looming risks the situation presents -- with nonstop , hands-on engagement , some seasoned diplomats say . <p> " This is when there is a great need for what I would call expeditionary diplomacy , " says Ryan Crocker , a former U.S. ambassador to Syria . " This is a time , if we want to avoid missteps or major surprises , for the closest possible consultations we can manage with our partners in the area . " <p> Ambassador Crocker also advocates " a diplomatic presence established on the ground as soon as possible , " despite the complications the U.S. faces in engaging directly with the leading rebel faction , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham . HTS is designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. , European Union , and United Nations , though it has sought to make the case it has moderated . <p> For the most ambitious among the " this moment presents opportunities " camp , Mr. Assad 's fall -- and the blow it has dealt to chief patrons Russia and Iran -- cements a growing conviction that there 's a window for action against Tehran 's advancing nuclear program . <p> Their concern is that the transition from a lame-duck U.S. administration to one already projecting an isolationist bent , could mean opportunities lost . <p> Ghaith Alsayed/AP <p> Government soldiers and allies are taken into custody by opposition fighters on the road between Homs and Damascus , near Homs , Syria , Dec. 8 , 2024 . <p> " There are some unique opportunities " because of events in Syria " to address some of the unresolved challenges in the Middle East ... and the most important of those is Iran 's nuclear program , " says Mr. Hannah , now a senior fellow in defense and strategy at the Jewish Institute for National Security of America . " We may have an opportunity to get that job done . " <p> Diplomats and others who served in the first Trump administration say they are all but certain the U.S. will return next year to the " maximum pressure campaign " of strengthened sanctions against Iran . <h> " A fight for Trump 's mind " <p> At the same time , others acknowledge there is likely to be an intense **36;1968;TOOLONG competition within the new Trump administration for a green light on looming consequential policy decisions . They include the level and type of cooperation with Israel on any military action against Iranian nuclear sites . <p> For advocates of intervention , the opportunity may be now or never to stop a severely weakened Iran from reacting to the loss of the keystone in its " Axis of Resistance " by rushing to produce a nuclear weapon . U.N . officials reported last week that Iran 's nuclear program has advanced significantly in recent months . <p> The other key Syria-related question a returning President Trump will face is what to do about the U.S. forces on the ground and their counterterrorism mission . <p> " I think there will be a fight for Trump 's mind about how quickly we pull our forces out of eastern Syria , " says Mr. Hannah . <p> Analysts with contacts inside the incoming administration 's foreign-policy circles say the " not our fight " group will argue that any reemerging international terrorism threat can be addressed by other U.S. assets in the region . <p> But others say President Trump may want to think twice before pulling the plug on the counterterrorism forces . <p> " If I were talking to President Trump about our troops there , I 'd remind him that their prime mission is ISIS " and stopping the group 's resurgence , says Elliott Abrams , who served as special representative for Iran in the first Trump White House . <p> " I would say , ' Mr. President , if you pull our guys out , and there 's an attack here by one of their guys , you 're going to be blamed , ' " Ambassador Abrams says . " ' It 's not worth it . ' " <p> You 've read of free articles . Subscribe to continue . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com.
