<h> India should be prepared for Pakistan 's anti-India initiatives in the United Nations Security Council <p> ' It is unfortunate that Pakistan ignores the many multilateral synergies between India and Pakistan to work together on UN issues ' Photo Credit : AFP <p> On January 1 , 2025 , Pakistan enters the United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) as an elected non-permanent member for a two-year term -- its eighth . <p> Pakistan 's entry is significant in that , effectively , half of the 10 elected members of UNSC will be from the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation ( OIC ) . Those elected for 2025-26 were Denmark , Greece , Pakistan , Panama and Somalia . They will replace Ecuador , Japan , Malta , Mozambique and Switzerland as their terms end on December 31 . The new members will join Algeria , Guyana , the Republic of Korea , Sierra Leone and Slovenia , who are existing non-permanent members . <p> Afghanistan will be a natural focus with Pakistan sure to use its Council stint to repair its frosty relations with the Taliban . In this , it has Russia and China to readily assist it in the diplomatic rehabilitation of the Taliban . With the OIC countries , one hopes that the Council gets all the support it needs for a ceasefire in Gaza to salvage from the rubble whatever is left of the Palestinian cause and stabilise the region . Peacekeeping is another of Pakistan 's stated priorities given its role as a major troop contributing country for UN peacekeeping . However , Pakistan 's default mode will be to focus on India . <h> What India should expect <p> India-Pakistan relations are still strained . Even if one assumes that some backchannels are busy working the lines , it is a given that enhanced bilateral cooperation does not necessarily result in enhanced multilateral cooperation , especially in the UN . This is true not just of Pakistan but also of countries India considers as " close friends " , even in the Global South . For example , some OIC countries with which India has very close bilateral relations , line up behind Pakistani drafts in the UN which have anti-India language . They even argue -- ingeniously -- that the offensive language is not aimed at India . Fortunately , there is help usually from unexpected friends in such groups , enabling India to tide over the issues successfully . <p> To state the obvious , India should be prepared for Pakistan 's anti-India initiatives in the UNSC . There was a brief period in 2012 when there was some synergy between the Missions of both countries in the UN when both nations were in the Council , but that was an aberration . Pakistan is back to its multilateral default mode of being anti-India . And in this , it now has a more assertive " iron brother " in China offering it an " all-weather friendship " . Pakistan 's first stated priority is to " combat terrorism " , which it hopes will absolve it of the tag of " terrorist state " . It will also try -- as it always does -- to slip that tag onto India . The list of Pakistan-based and Pakistani terrorist organisations associated with the ISIL ( Daesh ) and al-Qaeda under UNSC Resolution 1267 mandated sanctions , including the Lashkar-e-Taiba ( LeT ) and the Jaish-e-Mohammed , is long and instructive . In retaliation , Pakistan has presented several " dossiers " to the UN Secretary General , that have fancy claims of Indian terrorist attacks on Pakistan -- anything to keep the anti-India pot boiling . <p> After its stint in the UNSC in 2021-22 , India 's proposal ( with the United States as co-signatory ) to list Pakistani terrorist Abdul Rehman Makki , deputy leader of the LeT , under the 1267 sanctions regime was approved by the UNSC -- including of course by China -- making this the first listing ( with India as a proposer ) for terrorist acts in Jammu and Kashmir . It was a blow to Pakistan , which it must be waiting to avenge . <p> However , even proposals under 1267 sanctions are given a religious colour by Pakistan . It made desperate attempts , with trumped up charges , to list four Indian Hindus as terrorists , with the intention of getting at least one Hindu listed . The Council rejected every one of Pakistan 's requests -- not once but twice -- thanks to the U.S. and other western countries . Member-states have seen through Pakistan 's game . <h> On Kashmir <p> Its next , and most obvious , stated priority will be Jammu and Kashmir ( J&amp;K ) . Pakistan pushed for discussions on J&amp;K in the Council through its " friends " when India abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution . Two closed " consultations " were held in the UNSC , with China acting as the cat's-paw . But nothing happened . At least four of the five permanent members ( P-5 ) have little appetite for this issue . When a Pakistani journalist in New York asked this writer -- when India entered the UNSC in January 2021 -- about the " unfinished " business of Article 370 , the reply he got was this : that the only " unfinished " business was the return of **25;1610;TOOLONG ( PoK ) to India . <p> With elections having been conducted and a popular- government in place in J&amp;K , Pakistan would find it hard to make an issue . China , which , incidentally , occupies a part of PoK after Pakistan ceded it to them , will only be too happy to keep the pot boiling . The Pakistani Ambassador to the UN made a case in the media on how the recent decision by the International Court of Justice decision on Palestine applies to J&amp;K . One can not stop Pakistan from trying to do what it wants as its presence in the UNSC will give it the lever to call for discussions on J&amp;K . India is aware that the P-5 usually does not like to prevent discussions , but decides whether it should be open or closed and whether there should be an outcome . <h> The use of Islamophobia <p> Pakistan has used Islamophobia as a weapon to dilute the fight against terrorism and , going by its recent attempts , to target India . When the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy ( GTS ) was discussed in 2021 , and again in 2023 , Pakistan , supported by the OIC , sought to introduce Islamophobia as a ' justification ' for terrorism . India stood alone and had the reference removed . But when India left the Council at the end of 2022 , the United Arab Emirates and others inserted , inter alia , Islamophobia into the UNSC Presidential statement for the first time in February 2023 . In March 2024 , the U.S. , China and Russia voted in the UN General Assembly in support of an OIC resolution to appoint a UN Special Envoy for Combatting Islamophobia . With the right wing on the rise in the West , one has not heard the last on this subject in the Council with the OIC countries . <p> Early this year , Pakistan raised the issue of the bilateral India-Pakistan Indus Waters Treaty in the Council , which is a purely bilateral agreement with its mechanism to resolve disputes . This is a misuse of the UNSC with the only benefit of catering to a domestic audience . <p> During its stint between 2021-22 , India played a robust and positive role in strengthening international peace and security . While many UNSC members misuse " Arria formula " meetings ( a dispensation where any UNSC member can circumvent the Council and hold informal meetings on any issue ) , India avoided doing this and stuck to its priorities in the Council . Pakistan will have no such compunctions . <p> It is unfortunate that Pakistan ignores the many multilateral synergies between India and Pakistan to work together on UN issues . Both countries have similar interests : in UN peacekeeping , as they are large troop-contributing countries ; in combating climate change , as they face severe climate change-induced floods and natural disasters ; in achieving Sustainable Development Goals 2030 ; in focusing on the debt burden of the Global South ; or in reforming multilateral financial institutions . Sometimes even functional contacts with Indian diplomats are frowned upon by its Mission . <p> Pakistan 's internal political churning , economic collapse and misplaced priorities have prevented it from strengthening multilateralism and the UN in a world wrecked by conflicts . While its term will be high on rhetoric against India , it is difficult to see how UN member-states will be persuaded to play its game . <p> T.S . Tirumurti was Permanent **25;1637;TOOLONG of India to the United Nations , New York ( 2021-22 ) and President of United Nations Security Council for August 2021 <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
