<h> Scream 7 Adds Former Marvel Star ( and Will They Be Ghostface ? ) <p> Scream 7has added actress Mckenna Grace to its cast ; Grace is best known for her role in the rebooted Ghostbusters franchise ( Afterlife and Frozen Empire ) , as well as playing a young Carol Danvers in Marvel 's Captain Marvel movie . There is no word on who Mckenna Grace will be playing in the slasher film satire , but as with any Scream casting , there will be fan theories about whether or not she 'll be revealed as Ghostface -- or at least one of the killers . It 'll be another notch in Mckenna Grace 's horror franchise belt , which already includes Ghostbusters , The Conjuring Universe release Annabelle Comes Home , The Bad Seed remake and its sequel , James Wan 's Malignant , Netflix 's The Haunting of Hill House , and more . <p> Scream VII has had a winding path through development , originally slated to be a sequel to Scream VI , the second installment of a rebooted storyline following Sam Carpenter ( Melissa Barrera ) , the illegitimate daughter of the original Ghostface , Billy Loomis ( Skeet Ulrich ) . After surviving a Ghostface resurgence in Woodsboro ( during Scream V ) , Sam and her sister Tara moved to NYC with their surviving friends ( the " Core Four " ) so Tara could attend university . The Carpenter sisters were again targeted , this time by the family of one of the killers they dispatched in Scream V ; they turned the tables , embracing their own dark bloodline and cutting down a father-son-daughter team of Ghostface killers in a brutal , bloody , final showdown . The epilogue of Scream VI teased Sam possibly slipping into her own murderous psychosis , after two rounds of killing killers , guided by the ghost of her dad . <p> Offscreen , Melissa Barrera was fired from Scream 7 for posting some divisive commentary on the conflict in Gaza . Scream 6 directors Radio Silence , and Barrera 's co-star Jenna Ortega all walked after her firing , and Scream 7 has since been rebooted as a project that will return focus to Neve Campbell 's Sidney Prescott . Campbell returned for a limited cameo in Scream 5 , but chose to skip Scream VI , with Sidney being written off as caring for her new family instead of coming to NYC . <p> Scream 7 has a mix of new cast members like Isabel May ( 1883 ) as Sidney 's daughter , while there are rumors in the air that Courtney Cox could once again return as Gale Rivers , and Patrick Dempsey could reprise his Scream 3 role as Sidney 's now-husband , detective Mark Kincaid . <p> Even Melissa Barrera has been unwilling to close the door completely on the idea of seeing Sam Carpenter make a comeback , if all parties can move on : " I 've learned to never say never , but also a lot of things would have to happen for Sam to come back , " Barrera said earlier this year . " For now , next page , next chapter , and then we 'll see what the future holds . "
