<p> President-elect Donald Trump 's Middle East envoy , Steve Witkoff , met with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during a visit to Saudi Arabia this past week , according to two sources briefed on the meeting -- the first encounter between MBS and a representative of the incoming Trump administration since the November elections . <p> Trump appointed Witkoff , a close friend and confidant , as his administration 's Middle East envoy with the clear goal of securing a " mega-deal " with Saudi Arabia . <p> Trump reportedly wants the deal to include a historic peace agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia , as well as progress toward resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , according to sources familiar with his thinking . <p> " I want a long-lasting peace . I 'm not saying that 's a very likely scenario ... I want a peace where we do n't have an October 7 in another three years . I 'd like to see everybody be happy , " Trump told Time earlier this week , in its interview with the incoming president whom the magazine chose as its 2024 " Person of the Year . " <p> Witkoff 's trip was part of a series of meetings Trump advisers have held with Middle Eastern leaders in recent weeks . <p> One source said Witkoff and MBS discussed US-Saudi relations , the war in Gaza , the possibility of normalizing ties with Israel , and other regional issues . <p> Earlier last week , the incoming envoy attended a crypto conference in the UAE . A few months ago , Witkoff and Trump co-founded a cryptocurrency company called World Liberty Financial , Inc . <p> During his visit to Abu Dhabi , Witkoff met with the UAE 's National Security Advisor , Sheikh Tahnoun bin Zayed Al Nahyan , and discussed the war in Gaza , the revolution in Syria , and other regional topics , according to two sources . <p> Trump 's Middle East adviser , Massad Boulos , was also in the region this past week and met with Qatar 's Prime Minister in Doha , a source familiar with the meeting said . Boulos is also the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter , Tiffany . <p> Last Wednesday , Boulos met with King Abdullah of Jordan in Washington , according to another source . <p> That same day , Witkoff and Boulos met in Washington with Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer , a close confidant of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , an Israeli official said . <p> Trump 's newly appointed Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs , Adam Boehler , is expected to visit Israel this week for the first time since his appointment , another senior Israeli official said . <p> The Saudi and UAE embassies in Washington , as well as Witkoff , Boulos , and Trump 's team , declined to comment . <h> Flashback <p> Before the Hamas attack against Israel on October 7 , 2023 , the Biden administration had been negotiating with Saudi Arabia and Israel on a mega-deal that would include a peace agreement between the two nations . <p> The White House also sought to include a US-Saudi defense pact and a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement as part of the deal , believing the Senate might approve it as part of a broader agreement . <p> MBS had concluded that such a mega-deal would only be politically feasible under the Biden administration . <p> However , the October 7 attack derailed negotiations . The ongoing wars in Gaza and Lebanon , combined with Saudi demands for steps toward establishing a Palestinian state , have made the agreement challenging for both Israel and Saudi Arabia in the short term . <p> MBS and his senior advisers have publicly and privately reiterated in recent months that they remain interested in reaching such an agreement but have emphasized Saudi Arabia 's key condition : an Israeli commitment to a clear , irreversible timeline for establishing a Palestinian state . <p> So far , Netanyahu has refused this demand . The prime minister and his senior advisers believe that under Trump , and with Israel 's recent military successes against Iran and its proxies , the Saudis might drop their " Palestinian condition , " according to two sources . <p> In his interview with Time , Trump did not express support for the peace plan he introduced during his first term , which was based on a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . <p> Mark Dubowitz , CEO of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies and a confidant of some of Trump 's foreign policy team , said the president-elect is likely to revive his peace plan as a cornerstone of his Middle East strategy . <p> " This is key for facilitating a peace agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia . It could also enable the end of the war in Gaza and help implement a day-after reconstruction and security plan with strong Gulf support , " he said . <p> Trump was reportedly frustrated at not winning the Nobel Peace Prize for brokering the Abraham Accords , according to several sources . Dubowitz noted that a mega-deal with Saudi Arabia could boost Trump 's chances of securing the coveted award .
