<p> More than 1,000 law enforcement officials will be monitoring the Rose Parade and Rose Bowl Game on New Year 's Day to keep crowds safe during Pasadena 's annual celebration . <p> While it is a day of celebration for football fans and community members alike , Pasadena Police Chief Gene Harris said there will be " zero tolerance for shenanigans . " <p> Officials from local , state and federal law enforcement , including more than 250 members of the Pasadena Police Department , will be in attendance . Uniformed and plain-clothed officers will be stationed around the parade route and the stadium to monitor for safety hazards and handle any problems that may arise , Harris said . <p> " There wo n't be any breaks , " he said . " If you come up and ask for a break on something , we 're going to assume you want an arrest . " <p> Harris said officers still want attendees to enjoy the day-long celebration . Throughout the parade route and stadium , he said , attendees will see law enforcement smiling as they enjoy the festivities , too . <p> " It 's a day that we welcome the world to Pasadena , " said Pasadena Mayor Victor Gordo . <p> The city expects restaurants and hotels to be filled with community members and visitors celebrating . Gordo recommended that anyone planning to grab a meal or stay in the area make reservations in advance . <p> Planning for the parade and bowl game begins the year prior to ensure attendees have a safe experience , Gordo said . <p> At last year 's parade , a woman in her 20s rammed into a barricade at Colorado Boulevard and Chester Avenue . The barriers set up in the area stopped the woman , but if she were successful , officials said she could have injured numerous parade watchers . <p> Police arrested the woman for suspected assault with a deadly weapon , and her vehicle sustained significant damage from the crash . <p> Harris said police presence at the parade and the barricades allowed them to stop the assault before anyone was hurt . Law enforcement will continue to patrol the area and pay attention to make sure they prevent any other safety hazards . <p> Just blocks away , last year 's parade was also interrupted for about 15 minutes , when a group of Pasadena interfaith communities led a pro-Palestinian protest calling for a ceasefire in Gaza before peacefully dispersing under police orders . <p> No arrests were made . <p> The 136th annual Rose Parade 's theme is " Best Day Ever , " celebrating friends , family , community and the happiest moments in life , said Tournament of Roses President David Eads . Grand Finale performances will include singers Debbie Gibson and Betty Who and the Debbie Allen Dance Academy , and the parade will feature traditional floral floats , marching bands , equestrian units and musical performances . <p> In the Rose Bowl , Oregon will face off against the winner of a Dec. 21 game between Ohio State and Tennessee . <p> On New Year 's Eve , visitors can arrive and claim spots along Colorado Boulevard starting at noon to watch the parade the following day . <p> The Pasadena Fire Department along with around 15 other fire agencies will also be monitoring the parade route and stadium for illegal bonfires that can spread to structure fires or injure or kill others . <p> " Here we are in December , and we 're still dealing with major brush fires , " said Fire Chief Chad Augustin . " We only have to look to our neighbors in Malibu and the Franklin Fire , how devastating that 's been . " <p> Attendees are allowed to have small professionally manufactured barbecues that are elevated at least one foot off the ground , if they are kept at least 25 feet away from buildings . Fire officials recommend anyone with a barbecue also have a fire extinguisher on hand just in case . <p> Augustin reminded attendees to dress in layers , bring gloves and beanies and stay hydrated , as officials expect frigid temperatures overnight and warmer temperatures during the day . <p> Parking lots at the Rose Bowl Stadium will open at 4 a.m. on New Year 's Day , where visitors can pay to park and walk to the parade route , said stadium CEO Jens Weiden . The stadium 's public Fan Fest celebration will start at 9 a.m. , and gates will open at 11:30 a.m . Ticketholders are asked to take their seats by 1 p.m. for pre-game festivities before kickoff . <p> The city website will also have a schedule for when attendees can arrive to camp out and where they can park . <p> Attendees should double check for temporary no-parking signs and other restrictions before they park . Vehicles blocking emergency travel lanes or in restricted areas at the stadium or along the parade route will be towed at the owner 's expense .
