<p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The White House on Thursday announced what it called the first-ever national strategy to counter Islamophobia , detailing more than 100 steps federal officials can take to curb hate , violence , bias and discrimination against Muslims and Arab Americans . <p> The proposal follows a similar national plan to battle antisemitism that President Joe Biden unveiled in May 2023 , as fears about increasing hatred and discrimination were rising among U.S. Jews . <p> Officials worked on the anti-Islamophobia plan for months , and its release came five weeks before Biden leaves office -- meaning implementation will mostly fall to President-elect Donald Trump , if his administration chooses to do so . <p> In a statement announcing the strategy , the Biden administration wrote that " Over the past year , this initiative has become even more important as threats against American Muslim and Arab communities have spiked . " It said that included the October 2023 slaying of 6-year-old Wadee Alfayoumi , an American Muslim boy of Palestinian descent , who was stabbed to death in Illinois . <p> The plan details actions the Executive Branch can take , along with more than 100 other calls to action across all sectors of society . <p> The strategy has four basic priorities : increasing awareness of hatred against Muslims and Arabs while more widely recognizing these communities ' heritages ; broadly improving their safety and security ; appropriately accommodating Muslim and Arab religious practices by working to curb discrimination against them ; and encouraging cross-community solidarity to further counter hate . <p> Many of those state goals are similar to the ones the Biden administration laid out in its plan to reduce antisemitism -- especially the emphasis on improving safety and security and building cross-community solidarity . <p> " While individuals have sometimes been targeted because they are thought to be Muslim , it is also crucial to recognize that Arabs are routinely targeted simply for being who they are , " the announcement of the strategy states , noting that Muslims and Arab Americans have helped build out the nation since its founding . It says that new data collection and education efforts are " increasing awareness of these forms of hate as well of the proud heritages of Muslim and Arab Americans . " <p> The plan calls for more widely disseminating successful practices of engaging Muslim and Arab Americans in the reporting of hate crimes , and that federal agencies are now more clearly spelling out that " discrimination against Muslim and Arab Americans in federally funded activities is illegal . " <p> The White House 's plan also urges " state , local , and international counterparts , as well as the nongovernmental sector , to pursue similar initiatives that seek to build greater unity by recognizing our common humanity , affirming our shared values and history , and embracing equal justice , liberty , and security for all . " <p> Pro-Palestinian groups decrying his administration 's full-throated support of Israel in its war with Gaza , frequently disrupted Biden campaign events , as well as those of Vice President Kamala Harris after Biden abandoned his reelection bid in July . <p> Trump , who implemented a travel ban on people from several Muslim-majority countries during his first term , won the largest majority-Muslim US city in last months elections . Yet some Arab Americans who backed Trump have begun expressing concerns about his some of his choices to fill out his Cabinet and other picks for his incoming administration . <h> United States News <p> McALLEN , Texas ( AP ) -- SpaceX is launching a new mission : making its Starbase site a new Texas city . Billionaire Elon Musk ' s company on Thursday sent a letter to local officials requesting a election to turn what it calls Starbase -- the South Texas site where SpaceX builds and launches its massive Starship rockets -- ... <p> HONOLULU ( AP ) -- A Hawaiian Airlines flight crew 's decision to fly over a hazardous storm cell instead of deviating around it was the probable cause for hitting severe turbulence that injured passengers and crewmembers in 2022 , the National Transportation Safety Board said in a final report Thursday . Three passengers and a crew member suffered serious ... <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President-elect Donald Trump on Thursday voiced his support for the dockworkers union before their contract expires next month at Eastern and Gulf Coast ports , saying that any further " automation " of the ports would harm workers . The incoming president posted on social media that he met Harold Daggett , the president of the International ... <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- The White House on Thursday announced what it called the first-ever national strategy to counter Islamophobia , detailing more than 100 steps federal officials can take to curb hate , violence , bias and discrimination against Muslims and Arab Americans . The proposal follows a similar national plan to battle antisemitism that President Joe Biden unveiled ... <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- The man charged with killing UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson was never a client of the medical insurer and may have targeted it because of its size and influence , a senior police official said Thursday . NYPD Chief of Detectives Joseph Kenny told NBC New York in an interview Thursday that investigators have ... <p> UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) -- The deputy executive director of the U.N . World Food Program has been on whirlwind visits to hotspots in the Middle East and Sudan to assess dire humanitarian situations and escalating demands for food from millions of people trapped or fleeing conflicts . But Carl Skau said in an interview with The Associated ...
