<p> In a one-on-one interview with Jerusalem Post editor-in-chief Zvika Klein , Professor Ehud Grossman , President of Ariel University , discussed the unique features the university offers both its students and the Samaria region . <p> Grossman , a renowned researcher previously served as Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Tel Aviv University before assuming his duties as President of Ariel University . He noted that the university has experienced a 400% growth in research over the past ten years and praised the university 's " Zionistic approach . " One-third of the student body has been serving in the IDF since the beginning of the ' Swords of Iron War ' , and he said that the sight of students returning from reserve service with rifles slung across their backs is a common sight on campus . At the same time , the university values its diverse study body , including those who contribute to society in various ways , reflecting a community built on mutual respect and shared purpose . <p> One of the highlights of the university , he said , is its approach to medicine , which includes a multidisciplinary rehabilitation center , university clinics , the Faculty of Health Sciences and the Dr Miriam and Sheldon G. Adelson School of Medicine , established in August 2018 . This past September , the school conferred medical degrees on its first group of MDs , which numbered 53 graduates . Tragically , one of the graduates , Dr. Moshe Yedidyah Leiter , fell in battle in Gaza in November 2023 . The university is committed to honoring his memory , along with those of other students who have tragically lost their lives in the ongoing war . <p> Citing numbers and statistics , Grossman said that Ariel University today has 16,000 students , and more than 30,000 alumni , along with an academic and administrative staff of 3,000 . Ariel was established in 1982 , and was recognized as a university in 2012 . The university plays a vital role in the community , he explained , and is the largest employer in the Samaria region . <p> The vision of Ariel University , he said , is " shaping the present with the with the wisdom of the past and a vision for the future . We are an academic university with a Zionist mindset that contributes to the community . " <p> Ariel University sponsored a portion of the Jerusalem Post Miami Summit .
