<h> Follow Us <h> Israeli troops withdraw from southern Lebanon village under ceasefire deal <p> Lebanese army soldiers inspect the damage in the southern Lebanese village of Al-Khiam , near the border with Israel , on Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> Share <p> Israeli troops withdraw from southern Lebanon village under ceasefire deal <p> share <p> President Joe Biden 's national security adviser raised hopes Thursday for a Gaza ceasefire , saying Hamas negotiators " did adapt " after the announcement of a ceasefire deal in Lebanon . Hours later , local authorities reported Israeli airstrikes in both Lebanon and Gaza that killed dozens of people between them . <p> " For months , we believe Hamas was waiting for lots of other actors and forces to come to their rescue , to come to their aid , " said national security adviser Jake Sullivan , who was in Tel Aviv as part of a whirlwind Mideast tour . <p> He added : " We believe that it puts us in a position to be able to close this negotiation . " <p> That optimism was chased by reports of renewed Israeli action in both Gaza and Lebanon . <p> Lebanon 's Health Ministry reported an airstrike that killed at least one person in the strategic southern Lebanon town of al-Khiam , a day after Israeli forces withdrew as part of a ceasefire agreement between Israel and the militant group Hezbollah . <p> And in Gaza , hospital officials reported that they took in 25 bodies from an Israeli strike at the Nuseirat refugee camp . Palestinian officials also reported two airstrikes that hit a force protecting humanitarian aid trucks , which killed 13 people , and a separate attack on a residential bombing that included children among its seven victims . <p> Israel 's withdrawal from Al-Khiam came two weeks after the start of the ceasefire brokered by the United States and France . <p> Lebanon 's caretaker prime minister , Najib Mikati , sharply criticized the strike on the town less than 24 hours after the Lebanese army returned . Directing blame at the U.S. and France , he called it " a violation of the pledges made by the parties that sponsored the ceasefire agreement , who must act to curb Israeli aggression . " <p> A day earlier , Mikati had praised the withdrawal as " a fundamental step toward strengthening the army 's deployment in the south , in implementation of the ceasefire decision . " <p> The Israeli military did not immediately comment on the strike at Nuseirat . Israel has said Hamas militants hide among Gaza 's civilian population . The Israeli military is trying to eliminate Hamas , which led the attack on southern Israel in October 2023 that sparked the war in Gaza . <p> The ceasefire halted months of intensified fighting between Israel and Hezbollah , which included Israeli ground operations inside Lebanon and airstrikes that killed multiple Hezbollah leaders . Hezbollah launched cross-border attacks against Israel in solidarity with Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip following the October 2023 Hamas attack on southern Israel . <p> The U.N . General Assembly demanded on Wednesday an immediate and permanent ceasefire in the Gaza Strip as well as the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages still being held by Palestinian militants . <p> " The message that it is sending is that we are with you , " Palestinian envoy Riyad Mansour said after the vote . He added that it shows that Israel and its main backer , the United States , are more isolated internationally over the war . <p> The ceasefire resolution , which had 85 cosponsors , was adopted with 158 votes in favor and nine against , including the United States and Israel . <p> " The vote today is not a vote for compassion , " Israel 's ambassador , Danny Danon , said . " It is a vote for complicity . " He said the resolution failed to directly link the release of the remaining 100 hostages held by Hamas with the ceasefire , saying that amounted to " appeasement . " <p> The United States blocked a similar measure with its veto at the U.N . Security Council on November 20 , saying that it could not support an unconditional ceasefire that did not come with the release of hostages . <p> It voted against the ceasefire resolution in the General Assembly on Wednesday on similar grounds , as well as a second resolution supporting UNRWA , the embattled U.N aid agency that assists Palestinian refugees . <p> " Colleagues , the messages we send to the world through these resolutions matter . And both of these resolutions have significant problems , " U.S. Deputy U.N . Ambassador Robert Wood told the Assembly . " One rewards Hamas and downplays the need to release the hostages , and the other denigrates Israel without providing a path forward to increasing humanitarian assistance to Palestinian civilians . " <p> The General Assembly previously has called for a ceasefire , but its resolutions , though they carry the moral weight of the majority of the international community , are nonbinding and have been ignored . <p> The text also demands that Palestinian civilians across Gaza be given immediate access to aid necessary for their survival . The situation is especially dire in northern Gaza , where the U.N . says between 65,000 to 75,000 Palestinians have been largely cut off from aid deliveries for the past two months . International hunger monitors say famine is imminent there . <p> Support for UNRWA <p> In a separate vote , the 193-member assembly expressed support for UNRWA , the embattled U.N aid agency that assists Palestinian refugees in the occupied territories and the wider Middle East . <p> On October 28 , Israel 's parliament adopted legislation to ban the agency in Israel , potentially crippling its ability to reach millions of Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank . The law will go into effect in January . <p> More than 90 countries cosponsored the text , and 159 countries voted in favor of it , while nine voted against . The resolution says no other agency can replace it and called on Israel " to abide by its international obligations , respect the privileges and immunities of the Agency and uphold its responsibility to allow and facilitate full , rapid , safe and unhindered humanitarian assistance in all its forms into and throughout the entire Gaza Strip . " <p> The resolution also calls on Israel to pay UNRWA reparations for the dozens of schools , health centers and other facilities the agency runs that its military has bombed during the past 14 months . <p> " An agency we established is under threat , " said Slovenian Ambassador Samuel ? bogar , referring to the General Assembly 's creation of UNRWA in 1949 . " It is an agency acting on our behalf , on behalf of the values and principles of this organization . We need to support it . " <p> Norway 's ambassador said her country will submit a draft resolution to the assembly requesting the International Court of Justice to give an advisory opinion on Israel 's obligations to facilitate humanitarian assistance and other kinds of aid to the Palestinian population , delivered by the U.N. , NGOs and states . <p> The two resolutions voted on Wednesday received the highest margin of support of any Gaza-related motions in the General Assembly since the war started 14 months ago . <p> The United Nations on Wednesday appealed for just over $4 billion to address the most urgent humanitarian needs in the Palestinian territories for the next year . <p> Hamas set off the war with its October 7 , 2023 , terror attack on southern Israel during which its fighters killed about 1,200 people and took 250 hostages . Israel 's counteroffensive in Gaza has killed more than 44,800 people , according to the health ministry in Gaza , which does not distinguish between combatants and civilians in its count . <p> Hamas has been designated as a terror group by the United States , United Kingdom and several other Western countries . <p> U.N . correspondent Margaret Besheer contributed to this report . Some material in this report came from The Associated Press , Agence France-Presse and Reuters . <p> The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people . Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports .
