<h> Anti-Zionist rhetoric : Loud but fundamentally flawed - opinion <h> Why do educated Jews turn so against their own people while an Italian Catholic sees the same matter with a totally different clarity ? <p> PEOPLE PROTEST in Berlin outside Humboldt University in support of Israel and against antisemitism , in October . The charge that Israel is perpetrating a genocide is culturally rooted , springing from antisemitic tropes , Cold War politics , and settler-colonial academic theory , insists the writer . ( photo credit : REUTERS ) <p> There are some very angry people who are in a rage and who are involved in being very unfavorable to Israel and Zionism , lately . It 's the trend of anti-Israelism . <p> IfNotNow has publicized that it " is happy to support In Our Name , " a new group engaged in a fundraising campaign that rejects US military funding going to Israel 's military operations against terrorists while pooh-poohing that these actions by Israel could be " in the name of ' Jewish safety . ' " They wish to invest their " resources , in our name as Jews , in supporting Palestinian communities to thrive with freedom , dignity , and self-determination . " <p> In the first 72 hours of its existence , IfNotNow claims to have raised $45,000 . I do not know if they have a financial oversight committee but one can only hope that this Palestine Children 's Relief Fund effort will succeed where no other funder of activities for Palestine has not -- which is to prevent charity monies seeping off in direct or indirect support for terror . <p> Arie M. Dubnov is chair of Israel Studies and director of the Middle East Program at George Washington University , which was endowed by Susie Gelman 's foundation . Incidentally , or not , her daughter is the infamous Rachel who has been a major funder of the Palestinian Youth Movement and other anti-Zionists . Dubnov 's current book research project , tentatively titled " Dreamers of the Third Empire/Temple , " examines ties between Zionist and British imperial thinkers . Anti-Israel protestors make anti-Zionist claims at a BDS rally in Chicago , Illinois ( credit : FLICKR ) <h> Discourse manipulation <p> Dubnov recently published an article in Haaretz suggesting that right-wing academics are " manipulating the discourse " in the " debate over US Jewish identity " and thus are forcing academics " to display loyalty to Israel -- or stay silent . " <p> He is convinced that the allegation that there is sweeping " persecution of Jews and Israelis " on American campuses " is distorted and serves the gutter politics of the contemporary Right . " <p> And to include one non-Jew , for diversity , the Fontaines D.C. are an Irish post-punk band . Member " Curley " Carlos O'Connell plays guitar . They won the Album Award at the Rolling Stone UK Awards 2024 on November 28 with Romance . In his short appreciation of thanks , Curley managed but to mumble , " I 'm just gon na say : Free Palestine . Free Palestine , free Palestine . F*** Netanyahu and f*** Zionism . Free Palestine . " <p> They are all so angry . <p> WE ARE seeing and hearing a crescendo of **37;3306;TOOLONG fervor that purports to being opposed to actions supposedly taken by Israel . Those actions , committed in its defense , following an invasion of a portion of its territory and the slaughter , torture , rape , and hostage-taking of its citizens , residents , and visitors , have been twisted to fit a new definition , pushed by Amnesty International , of genocide . <p> It is not only Western liberals who have turned on the Jews . What can explain Omer Bartov , Brown University professor of Holocaust and Genocide Studies , calling Israel 's Gaza military campaign a " genocide operation " ? In a counter-balance , Italy 's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Antonio Tajani said that , while he might not agree with how Israel is conducting its war against Hamas in Gaza , what is happening in the enclave does not amount to genocide . <p> Why do educated Jews turn so against their own people while an Italian Catholic sees the same matter with a totally different clarity ? Why do university officials and educators adopt such radical attitudes as what Zahava Feldstein , a post-graduate doctoral candidate , was told by a Stanford University dean : " Zionists are the in-group upon which white supremacy depends . " <p> Feldstein was developing a curriculum for Jewish high school students . The dean suggested that Feldstein " frame Zionism for them as a white supremacist project . " <p> Of course , when the owner-publisher of Haaretz insists that there exists an apartheid regime in Israel and lets slip that the Arab terrorists are basically " freedom fighters , " one begins to grasp that there is an echo of times past as when Nicolas Donin denounced the Talmud in the 13th century to Pope Gregory IX . That resulted in the 1242 burning of the thousands of holy tomes in Paris . <p> The other side is organizing . They have been doing so for a while , as can be gleaned from this admission now of a British academic , forced to remain anonymous : <p> " Ever since the late 1960s , higher education in the West has been infiltrated by a steady stream of nefarious actors , who claim victimhood and make allegations of ' Islamophobia ' on the one hand and spout racist hate speech against Jews on the other . " <p> Higher education has been replaced by lower education , an example of which is Genocide Bad , a forthcoming book by Sim Kern ( she is a " they " ) . It " confronts Zionist propaganda head-on " with notes on Palestine , Jewish history , and collective liberation , a " collection of 10 unapologetic essays . " It is 200 pages long . A younger generation is being spoon-fed lies , misrepresentations , and insidious insanity . <p> As Norman Goda , a professor of Holocaust Studies at the University of Florida , has pointed out in a Quillette podcast , the charge that Israel is perpetrating a genocide is culturally rooted , springing " from antisemitic tropes of Jewish bloody-mindedness , Cold War politics , settler-colonial academic theory , and the melding of international law with political activism . " <p> NGO Monitor has documented this slide into irrational despising of Jews who insist we are a nation , possessing a national identity with a historical heritage over 3,000 years old . It is a Jewish legacy of religion , culture , literature , community customs and an actual historical record attested to by those we engaged with , for good or for worse . <p> An early 2022 Amnesty International embargoed draft report declared that Israel 's " system of apartheid originated with the creation of Israel in May 1948 " -- as if Israel 's very existence is an original sin . At the time , US Amnesty International director Paul O'Brien said , " We are opposed to the idea ... that Israel should be preserved as a state for the Jewish people . " <p> No other state , and certainly no Islamic nation , is similarly treated . We Jews are n't permitted to be like other humans . The angry anti-Zionists will yet be very sorry . <p> The writer is a researcher , analyst , and commentator on political , cultural , and media issues .
