<h> Measures were taken by an arbitration committee following off-wiki coordination endeavors <p> Wikipedia webpage in use on a laptop computer is seen in this photo illustration taken in Washington , January 17 , 2012. ( photo credit : REUTERS/GARY CAMERON ) <p> An Arbitration Committee set by Wikipedia for " Palestine-Israel Cases " has banned two editors indefinitely and imposed restrictions on three others . <p> These measures were taken against the said editors following attempts at " canvassing , " which is regarded by Wikipedia as bringing fellow editors into a discussion regarding a specific edit " with the intention of influencing the outcome of a discussion in a particular way , and is considered inappropriate . " According to Wikipedia 's standards , such instances of canvassing are deemed inappropriate " because they compromise the normal consensus decision-making process , and therefore ( it ) is generally considered disruptive behavior . " <p> The Committee highlighted the off-wiki misconduct in the Palestine -- Israel topic area , accusing editors of making edits in the Palestine -- Israel topic area after off-wiki canvassing requests and " encouraging other users to game the extended confirmed restriction and engage in disruptive editing . " <p> " Wikibias , " an X account that examines these attempts and exposes anti-Israel bias on the Free Encyclopedia , lauded the decision taken by the committee , adding that other " toxic editors " are still manipulating information in articles such as " Use of Human Shields by Hamas . " The outlet continued : " it is high time the Arbitration Committee takes immediate action to thoroughly investigate and hold all editors ... accountable for their distortion of Wikipedia content . " Tourists look from Casa Batllo at people holding Palestinian and Lebanon flags during a protest to express support for Palestinians in Gaza , a day ahead of the anniversary of the October 7th attack , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Barcelona , Spain October 6 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/NACHO DOCE ) <h> A history of anti-Israel coordination efforts <p> Wikipedia , a self-described endeavor where anyone can contribute to the world 's common knowledge , is owned by the Wikimedia Foundation , an NGO which , as a matter of principle , rarely interferes in the content and editing process of specific entries , even when facing stories of widespread bias and misinformation . <p> In August , the blog " The Wikipedia Flood : Documenting Wikipedia 's Anti-Israel Bias " , published an expose showing how pro-Hamas editors were using Wikipedia as a battlefield to promote their anti-Israel agendas . This included off-wiki coordination endeavors through personal correspondence on email and social media platforms such as Discord , despite the fact that Wikipedia 's own standards prohibit these . <p> According to the blog , these groups of editors collaborated to set up " war rooms " with weekly meetings to coordinate editing efforts , with some in the group self-describing as an " instrument of the Gaza war for the elimination of Israel . " <p> Last month , The Jerusalem Post published an investigative report ( LINK ) on the bigotry , misinformation and bias found on Wikipedia 's Arabic version , which included a plethora of examples from offensive generalizations against Jews to denial and downplaying Arabic Wikipedia 's distinctive editing pool which limits automatically accepted edits to a closed group of editors , differing from the English version which mostly allows editing freely.Advertisement <p> The Post 's investigation also interviewed Ashley Rindsberg from Pirate Wires , who himself published an in-depth expose of the group of pro-Hamas editors which he deemed to be " hijacking Wikipedia . " In the expose , Rindsberg pointed to roughly 40 editors who have worked together to delegitimize Israel on the website , also removing the terror group 's of expressions of antisemitism as shown on their 1988 charter . He also exposed that following October 7th , a group named Tech for Palestine launched a campaign to coordinate the editing endeavors of 8,000 articles on Wikipedia , but when they were exposed -- they proceeded to delete all of the pages and chats they were operating . <p> Disdain toward the bias on the Free Encyclopedia is not limited to activists and reporters only . Larry Sanger , one of the founders and creators of Wikipedia , has also voiced his concerns regarding the bias on Wikipedia , being cited in 2021 as saying that he would n't trust it as a source despite being amongst its creators . Sanger warned that Wikipedia " has changed " , implying that it is no longer " committed to neutrality " as it used to be , due " a big , nasty , complex being made behind the scenes to make the article say what somebody wants them to say . "
