<h> Mediators believe that if a limited deal is indeed struck , with the release of hostages , it will result in a dynamic that will ultimately lead to a full deal that will end the war . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz told the families of hostages still in captivity on Friday that negotiations are underway , and that there is a higher chance than ever for a hostage deal . <p> Katz made statements similar to those of his US counterpart , Lloyd Austin , this week . <p> A Friday KAN report also cited Palestinian sources saying that Hamas is willing to reach a hostage release-ceasefire deal . The report also cited an Israeli source saying that there is progress for the gradual release of hostages . The deal currently being discussed between the parties includes the release of certain hostages , while according to foreign sources , there are plans to release the remaining female hostages first . <p> The mediators believe that if a limited deal is indeed struck , with the release of hostages , it will result in a dynamic that will ultimately lead to a full deal - including the release of all hostages , an end to the war , and the withdrawal of Israeli forces , including from the Philadelphi Corridor , the KAN report added . <h> Reporters weigh in on possible deal <p> " This is the first time since the hostage release deal in November of last year that there is a real opportunity . So if the deal reaches the cabinet - it will pass , " reporter Mia Aiden said on Channel 13 . A woman walks past graffiti calling for the release of the hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , November 25 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/STOYAN NENOV ) <p> KAN 11 's Palestinian correspondent Elior Levy reported that Qatar , Egypt , and Turkey are pressuring Hamas to work towards a hostage deal , with the full backing of the United States . <p> While it appears that the hostage deal is approaching , next week , about 20 families of hostages still in Gaza intend to intensify their protests against the government , with the main message being an end to the war , KAN 11 reporter Bar Shem-Ur said . <p> N12 reported that " Hamas is weak , isolated , and tired . The mediators are recognizing signs of weakness . The US is going one step further and said explicitly yesterday : ' A deal can be reached by the end of the month . ' " <p> " The timetable presented by the US is not unreasonable , " added N12 reporter Almog Booker . " Progress is slow - but it is there . Turkey has entered the picture very strongly , and they are also applying pressure on Hamas. "
