<p> Last November , Hani Almadhoun mourned the deaths of his brother Majed , his sister-in-law and three of his nephews who were all killed by the Israeli army in Gaza . This November -- just a few days after Thanksgiving -- Almadhoun lost another brother : chef Mahmoud Almadhoun , who was targeted in a drone attack . <p> Mahmoud , a father of seven and a beloved name across North Gaza , was best known for his efforts to uplift his local community . Alongside Almadhoun , Mahmoud co-founded the Gaza Soup Kitchen , which provides fresh-cooked meals to displaced individuals across the area . He also opened a medical clinic -- supplying countless patients with essentials like baby formula , medicine , blankets and diapers -- and launched a small school . <p> Despite the ongoing atrocities , Mahmoud always led with compassion and gratitude . Prior to his death , the chef was detained in northern Gaza by the Israeli military and subsequently released both times . His killing was n't a mere accident , Almadhoun alleges . <p> " Mahmoud 's killing was n't just an attack on my family ; it was a message . He was n't a fighter -- he was a father , a humanitarian , and a man devoted to his community , " Almadhoun wrote in a memorial for his younger brother published in The Nation . " His only ' crime ' was slowing the ethnic cleansing of northern Gaza through tireless efforts to organize aid , deliver meals , and sustain those around him . " <p> He continued , " I believe his killing was not an accident ; it was meant to silence the helpers -- the humanitarians who stand in the way of Gaza 's complete erasure . " <p> Almadhoun , director of philanthropy at UNRWA USA , spoke with Salon about the death of his late brother and the future of the Gaza Soup Kitchen . <p> The following interview has been lightly edited for clarity and length . <p> Take me back to when you and Mahmoud started the Gaza Soup Kitchen . <p> Around December last year , Mahmoud and I were helping our community by doing two things . One , buying ready-made meals from somebody who was still cooking rice . We would buy bags of cooked rice and give it to people in bundles . And two , sourcing food packages so we could buy canned food , wipes , lentils or pasta -- whatever we could find . <p> A few months later , the rice person who we used to buy rice from said he could no longer provide it because he could n't find rice and afford it . So , Mahmoud figured , ' Hey , what will we do now ? ' He improvised a plan to start cooking for people . Our kitchen used to be in the old market ( located in the center of Bethlehem ) . Mahmoud bought three pots and made a stew out of veggies -- mostly from cans , like peas and carrots -- fresh tomatoes , seasonings and salt . He provided meals for about 120 families on the first day he cooked . I believe the first day was February 14 , Valentine 's Day . <p> Mahmoud and I eventually decided that the kitchen was going to be a sustained effort for the time being . Mahmoud started going into the local farms , specifically in Beit Lahia , and buying anything he could find . There were some potatoes . Because it was winter , they had n't spoiled . There were some zucchinis that were intended to be small but had become overgrown . There were also some carrots . Mahmoud would buy large volumes of food , store them in his warehouse and then cook stews . He did that for about a month until the new season brought more greenery and fresh crops , including melons and persimmons . That sustained the operation for a few more months . <p> In February , the local media was celebrating the kitchen 's initiatives because , at the time , the North was being intentionally starved . And in March , the kitchen garnered attention from the international media . Amid our operation , Mahmoud and I lost our brother , Majid . Mahmoud himself had been detained , abducted and released . People found something poetic about our story . The operation was to stay for 10 months until Mahmoud was killed in November . <p> The soup kitchen is described as " more than just an initiative , it 's a personal vow , " per its website . Tell me more about that message . <p> We cook for our neighbors . We are struggling , like all of them . We are not on an organization 's payroll . We just cook for our neighbors . And our vow is to not close shop when things get difficult . We continued to operate until , literally , the bombs fell outside the kitchen . We ca n't disappear because this is our neighborhood . We 're not going to hide because this is where we live . If we do n't cook for others , we ourselves do n't eat . <p> It 's also a testament that Chef Mahmoud was assassinated . I ca n't believe I said the words " chef " and " assassinated " all in one line . We continue to do the work and provide meals in different parts of Gaza , the North and the South . At the end of the day , people still need us . There are hungry children in Gaza that need support , and we will be there for them . <p> Is there a fond memory you shared with your brother while working in the kitchen together ? <p> Mahmoud was always proud of the solutions he provided . He was also proud of being the person who provided meals for up to 700 families per day . Mahmoud would call me in the morning and say , " Hey Hani . Can we do X , Y and Z ? " And I 'd say , yes . In one instance , Mahmoud told me that he was going to grill some meat . I was like what the heck is he going to grill ? Because meat is banned . It 's restricted . You ca n't bring in meat from outside . Mahmoud got canned meat , which he sliced and seasoned . He cooked it in olive oil , grilled it and came up with a new dish . We call it Canned Meat Shawarma Wraps . People keep asking for it because they 're tired of eating pasta and lentils for four months . That 's one of the dishes that Mahmoud created and became known for in North Gaza . <p> I read your recent memorial for Mahmoud that was published Wednesday in The Nation . You mentioned that your brother did n't just focus on food . He also opened a medical clinic and started a small school . Mahmoud 's efforts truly showcase his immense bravery , grit and fearless dedication . <p> Mahmoud decided to open up a medical point . He hired three nurses and one doctor . The medical point operated for a little bit more than three months before it was targeted . When the hospitals were under siege , victims were brought to the medical point for first aid . Mahmoud helped those victims . That was a very proud moment for him and a big deed that he 's done in the community . <p> He also opened a school . I remember he used to run away from school as a kid . About 560 kids were enrolled at the school . Some students attended for as long as a month before the school was targeted on November 3 . When Mahmoud built the school , he put up a sign that read , " Please Do Not Bomb " in Hebrew alongside the U.S. flag . That was one of the ways he wanted to keep the school safe and the young children out of harm 's way . <p> Mahmoud would always find ways to solve problems for the community . About two weeks before he was murdered , Mahmoud figured out a way to get clean drinking water in the North . He found a water pump that had solar panels . Mahmoud purchased some of that water and gave it away to the town . <p> When he could no longer cook because his staff ran away for their lives , Mahmoud said he would deliver food , lentils , blankets , diapers and baby formula to Kamal Adwan Hospital . He 's got a soft spot in his heart for the hospital , so whenever they ask for something , he would deliver it . He 's been helping the hospitals as much as he can and we , as his family , think that 's why he was targeted by the Israeli Army . One day , Mahmoud was walking to the hospital to check if the produce he had delivered reached its destination . He was walking to the hospital , 30 yards outside of his house , when he was killed on the spot . There was no crossfire . It 's an assassination . We know it was . <p> No matter how dire his situation was , Mahmoud made an effort to document his community efforts and share a simple yet kind message : " I send this video with love and thanks to my friends in the United States . " He was always incredibly grateful . <p> There 's a long history of Mahmoud , his videos and the work he 's done on the Gaza Soup Kitchen 's Instagram page . So far , the Israeli army has not provided an explanation for Mahmoud 's killing . We 're not holding our breath . We know the IDF had his phone number . They have my phone number . They could have called and said , " Hey Mahmoud , we do n't want you to be here . " He would 've gladly left . Mahmoud is a father of seven . He was n't trying to be a hero . He was just solving problems for our neighbors . <p> Now , if there is anybody who thinks Mahmoud has a secret life , it has been proven that he has been taken twice by the Israeli army , like all the men in North Gaza , and released within hours . I 've seen comments by the trolls claiming he was part of Hamas . I assure you , he had nothing to do with that . Mahmoud was just a business guy . He was selling and buying food , then pivoted to cooking and opening a school and delivering water every morning in North Gaza . <p> Through the soup kitchen , food was providing sustenance , but I 'd say it was also utilized as a symbol of resilience and hope . <p> The soup kitchen became a ritual for the day for the people in North Gaza . Mahmoud started cooking every morning at nine . People came to receive food and hang out . The speakers would be blasting music . Kids danced Dabke , sang and played while waiting for the food to be ready . You know , agencies may deliver civilians a bag of flour , but they 're not going to eat spoonfuls of plain flour . There is no gas to cook with . So people rely on a community kitchen that cooks for them . <p> Mahmoud was celebrated because he was doing one thing that a lot of people who were watching from afar wanted to do , and he sustained it . Some people cook for a day or a month and then they leave . We kept our operation going . This is the story of Mahmoud . He loved to cook . He used every Friday to make the family meal , which was always some form of rice and chicken . At the kitchen , he continued to do that on a much bigger scale . He really helped people stay in the land until the Israelis needlessly took him out . He should n't be where he is now . It 's been a difficult reality to live in . <p> Tell me more about the family dinners . <p> So , Friday is the day that people do n't open their shops . Mahmoud would n't go to work on Friday , he would sleep in and wake up around 11 or 12 . He would then season the chicken , cook it in the oven and make the rice or couscous for our family . Mahmoud liked to eat . He had a very good appetite . He would feed our parents , his kids -- whoever lives in our area . That 's his passion . <p> Mahmoud was making stews at the soup kitchen for the longest time until our older sister , who is a culinary wizard , started making more sophisticated menu items like Palestinian Rummaniyeh and other local dishes . She was known for making Palestinian couscous from scratch . When our sister started making more dishes , Mahmoud focused on managing the business and buying medicine for the medical point . <p> What legacy will Mahmoud leave behind ? And what is the future of Gaza Soup Kitchen ? <p> This morning , I woke up to pictures of Mahmoud 's kids helping their uncle distribute food parcels in memory of their father . We 're continuing to connect with my brother by doing the things that he would have enjoyed doing for the family . We hope his kids realize how important his work was and continue to help their community . <p> As far as our soup kitchen operation , we 're still cooking for our neighbors . We 're not shrinking . We 're expanding , unfortunately . It 's bittersweet because expanding the soup kitchen means more people need it , but people should have food at home . We currently have three soup kitchens in North Gaza and two in the South , where we 're also doing food parcels . In Al-Zawaida , we were cooking for approximately 400 families . Now , we 're cooking for 600 to 700 families . That number is growing because food is very expensive and people ca n't afford it . They 're displaced , they 're living in tents . <p> We want to honor Mahmoud 's memory by serving our fellow neighbors . This is not to make a political statement . Yes , we 're Palestinian . Yes , we 're resilient , but we 're mourning his death . Just because we are continuing to cook does n't mean we are n't sad . Every day , a memory or video pops up and we start tearing up . We 're humans . But at the end of the day , people who are not in Gaza need to see a glimmer of hope . <p> State officials said hundreds of thousands of Rhode Island residents could be affected by a cyberattack on the state 's online portal for social services , with a " high probability " that personally identifiable information was breached . According to an update from Governor Dan McKee 's office , the attack targeted RIBridges , which Rhode Island residents use to apply for and access programs such as Medicaid and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program ( SNAP ) . The attack also targeted the Healthsource RI insurance marketplace . <p> After famed investor Marc Andreessen met with government officials about the future of tech last May , he was " very scared " and described the meetings as " absolutely horrifying . " What scared him most was what some said about the government 's role in AI , and what he described as a young staff who were " radicalized " and " out for blood " and whose policy ideas would be " damaging " to his and Silicon Valley 's interests . <p> In the wake of the release of OpenAI 's o1 , a so-called reasoning model , there 's been an explosion of reasoning models from rival AI labs . In early November , DeepSeek , an AI research company funded by quantitative traders , launched a preview of its first reasoning algorithm , DeepSeek-R1 . Well , for one , the search for novel approaches to refine generative AI tech .
