<h> Share on Social Media <p> The action group Pens for Swords has launched a letter-writing campaign to protest the International Documentary Association 's decision to cancel the advertising contract it had with the film " We Will Dance Again , " charging that the move shows " anti-Israeli discrimination " and is " effectively sabotaging the documentary film 's Academy Awards chances . " <p> Pens for Swords , an action group that focuses on antisemitism and anti-Israeli bias , also appealed to the California State Attorney General and the Los Angeles County District Attorney , asking for an inquiry into the IDA 's actions and to reconsider the organization 's nonprofit status . <p> Representatives for the film have rejected the arguments made by an attorney for the IDA last week in a Dec. 4 letter to the filmmakers and to TheWrap that characterized the claims of anti-Israeli bias as " fictional . " That letter and the IDA 's arguments , said a spokesperson for the film , are " defamatory actions . " <p> TheWrap reached out to the IDA and to the law firm of Singh , Singh &amp; Trauben , LLP , which wrote the letter defending the IDA . They have not responded to requests for comment . <p> " We Will Dance Again , " which was nominated by the Producers Guild of America on Tuesday in its documentary category and is currently playing on Paramount+ , deals with the 2023 Nova Music Festival , at which 364 people were killed or injured as part of the Oct. 7 attack on Israel by Hamas . <p> The filmmakers signed a contract with the IDA on Nov. 15 to have the organization send seven email blasts ( called " eBlasts " in the contract ) and one " weekly digest " ad to its members between Nov. 18 and Dec. 8 , leading up to the Dec. 9-13 voting for the Academy Award shortlist in the Best Documentary Feature category . <p> After the first eBlast went out , the IDA canceled the rest of the ad buy , saying that it had limited inventory for the blasts and had to give priority to films that were nominated for the IDA Documentary Award . ( " We Will Dance Again " was not submitted for that award . ) <p> According to the letter sent by Pens for Swords ( and available for others to sign and send here ) , that cancellation seriously damaged the film 's awards prospects by withholding the ads from potential Oscar voters . <p> The Academy 's Documentary Branch consists of about 700 voting members around the world , but it is unknown exactly how many of them are also members of the IDA . The IDA 's website says that it has more than 3,000 members , with documentary filmmakers and doc fans eligible to join under seven different levels of membership , from " Doc Lover Membership " at $55 to " Advocate Membership " at $5,000 . <p> The letter from Pens for Swords asks the IDA ( which it initially misidentifies as the Independent Documentary Association rather than the International Documentary Association ) to reverse course and honor its media contract with " We Will Dance Again " " before causing more irreparable harm " -- although with shortlist voting ending on Dec. 13 , there 's little time to fulfill a contract calling for more than half a dozen items . <p> It goes on to say , " The IDA has purposely breached a media distribution contract with the producers of ' We Will Dance Again ' ... We are forwarding this letter to the Los Angeles District Attorney 's Office and the Office of the Attorney General of California because the IDA 's anti-Israel discrimination likely violates California 's Unruh Civil Rights Act. 2 In addition , under California law , as a nonprofit , the IDA is considered a public accommodation , ' so we recommend that IDA 's nonprofit status be reconsidered should allegations of discriminatory behavior be confirmed . " <p> The letter , and representatives for " We Will Dance Again , " also addressed specific comments made by the IDA 's attorneys in their Dec. 4 communication , which said that the film 's complaints " reflect a fundamental misunderstanding of IDA 's advertising insertion order process . " The attorneys said that at least 12 other films were also rejected for eBlasts and marketing -- but according to Pens for Swords , those other films were simply inquiries from movies that did not have existing contracts , making " We Will Dance Again " the only film whose contract was canceled . <p> " Furthermore , " the letter said , " the claim that IDA has a limited ' inventory ' for email blasts is implausible in the digital era . The eBlast that the producers paid $21,000 for is literally a click of a button for the IDA . " <p> While the IDA said it offered replacement email blasts that would take place after voting had closed for the IDA Documentary Awards , spokespersons for the film say concrete replacements were never offered and that the IDA was " non-responsive during the entire controversy " until TheWrap approached them for comment last week . <p> We are writing to you as concerned members of the community , unaffiliated with the filmmakers and producers of the documentary We Will Dance Again . The mission of the Independent SIC Documentary Association ( IDA ) is to " support the vital work of documentary storytellers and champion a thriving and inclusive documentary culture . " 1 Contrary to this mission , it has come to our attention that , for reasons of anti-Israel discrimination , the IDA has purposely breached a media distribution contract with the producers of We Will Dance Again , effectively sabotaging the documentary film 's Academy Award prospects . We are forwarding this letter to the Los Angeles District Attorney 's Office and the Office of the Attorney General of California because the IDA 's anti-Israel discrimination likely violates California 's Unruh Civil Rights Act. 2 In addition , under California law , as a non-profit , the IDA is considered a " public accommodation , " so we recommend that IDA 's non-profit status be reconsidered should allegations of discriminatory behavior be confirmed. 3 But there is still time to change course ! We urge the IDA to dispel its bigotry and immediately honor its media contract with We Will Dance Again before causing more irreparable harm . <p> Although the IDA calls these charges of anti-Israel bias a " fiction , " 4 the evidence paints a much different picture . The producers of We Will Dance Again signed a contract with the IDA for $21,000 for an " eBlast " of media distribution on November 18 , 2024 . On November 15 , 2024 , IDA personnel confirmed the timeline for the eBlast and requested final materials for media distribution . However , when the media campaign came across the desk of Zaferhan Yumru , IDA 's director of marketing , the producers of the film suddenly received a form letter of cancellation . <p> It has come to light that Zaferhan Yumru has a long history of anti-Israel activism and rhetoric online. 567 We Will Dance Again is a film that documents the minute-by-minute events that occurred at the Nova Music Festival on October 7 , when Hamas , a designated terrorist organization , slaughtered , raped , tortured , and burned alive 380 festival attendees. 8 It appears that Zaferhan Yumru 's cancellation of the media distribution contract was motivated by anti-Israel animus , aiming to silence the important humanitarian message at the heart of the film and sabotage the prospects of it garnering an Academy Award nomination . <p> IDA 's contention that the cancellation was a simple clerical misunderstanding does not hold water . Canceling an existing contract to accommodate other " priorities " 4 clearly reflects " deprioritizing " a film it does not want to promote due to personal and institutional discrimination . Furthermore , the claim that IDA has a limited " inventory " for email blasts is implausible in the digital era . The eBlast that the producers paid $21,000 for is literally a click of a button for the IDA . IDA also asserts that rejecting 12 other films proves there was no discrimination . However , the other films did not have existing contracts . Only the We Will Dance Again contract was canceled . <p> This is not an isolated incident . The filmmakers and producers of We Will Dance Again reached out to other documentary filmmakers of Jewish and Israel-focused films and discovered numerous examples of similar treatment by Zaferhan Yumru and the IDA , establishing a pattern of discriminatory behavior . The keynote speaker at IDA 's 2024 Getting Real conference was Jemma Desai , 9 a fervent anti-Israel activist who frequently posts " Fuck Israel " and red Hamas triangles on social media . On October 9 , 2023 , just two days after the worst massacre of Jews since the Holocaust and before Israel entered Gaza , Desai organized a protest in solidarity with the perpetrators. 10 Further evidence of IDA 's anti-Israel stance occurred at Thursday night 's awards ceremony , where IDA granted three prestigious awards to anti-Israel documentaries . No documentaries with pro-Israel or neutral perspectives received nominations. 11 In celebration of one of the anti-Israel documentaries ' wins , Zaferhan Yumru posted " From the River to the Sea , Palestine Will Be Free Free Free " on the official IDA Instagram account. 7 <p> We strongly urge the IDA to cease its discriminatory behavior and uphold its mission of inclusivity . To avoid further civil rights violations and jeopardizing its non-profit status , IDA must immediately honor its media distribution contract with the producers of We Will Dance Again . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Steve Pond has been writing about film , music , pop culture and the entertainment industry for more than 40 years . He has served as TheWrap 's awards editor and executive editor , awards since joining the company in 2009 . Steve began his career writing about music for the Los Angeles Times , where he remained a contributor for more ... <h> Steve Pond <p> Steve Pond 's inside look at the artistry and insanity of the awards race , drawn from more than three decades of obsessively chronicling the Oscars and the entertainment industry .
