<p> Reflecting on his career , Sa'ar remarks : " I think I 'm the Israeli politician who has written the most resignation letters . I wrote a resignation letter when I left politics in 2014 to be with my family . I wrote a similar letter in 2020 when I had to leave the Likud party , which was my home and where I grew up , to establish the National Right Party . This March , I wrote another resignation letter from Netanyahu 's government because I felt things were n't heading in the right direction , and I could n't make an impact . I never focus on the seat ; it 's not what interests me . " <h> You 've criticized Netanyahu extensively in the past . How do you explain being part of his government today ? <p> " That 's not new , " Sa'ar says . " I joined the government in the week following October 7 , along with Benny Gantz and Gadi Eisenkot , out of the understanding that this war is critical for the future of the next generation , and its outcomes will shape the borders of the Middle East . Back then , as today , it seemed to me the most important issue , overshadowing everything else . " <h> Still , you resigned after six months . <p> " That might have been a mistake , " he admits , " but at that point , I felt there was stagnation regarding both Gaza and Lebanon . I also felt I had no ability to influence decisions because the war was being managed by a small cabinet . That 's why we stepped down last March . " <h> And yet , you returned six months later . Why ? <p> " Our return to the government in September was due to two main factors : the change in policy and the understanding that I would have influence in the most limited forums . I had long , discreet conversations with Netanyahu , which were not publicized in the media , where we discussed the war and came to the conclusion that , in this context , we see things eye to eye . Right now , I and other political leaders can not afford to stand on the sidelines . We must try to influence and help the State of Israel and its people . That 's what I 'm trying to do . My entire life , I 've been a man of the right . There were periods of excellent cooperation with Netanyahu and periods of political and personal rifts . But that was never the most important thing . The most important thing has always been the State of Israel . I never lose sight of the goal for which I 'm in this . " <h> How have people reacted to your return to the government ? <p> " There are people with different views than mine who wanted to use me to promote their agendas , not mine . That excites me to a very limited extent , to say the least , " Sa'ar says pointedly . " To those people , I say : if you were counting on the rift between Netanyahu and me , forget about it . You wo n't gain anything from it anymore . Find other ways to promote yourselves . " <h> What about your relationship with Netanyahu after the political and personal tensions ? <p> " Our relationship is very good , " he states . " We meet often , we talk frequently , and I 'm involved and well-informed . " Newly appointed Israeli minister of Foreign Affairs Gideon Saar attends a replacing ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Jerusalem on November 10 , 2024. ( credit : Canva , YONATAN SINDEL/FLASH90 ) <h> Does Netanyahu hold a grudge for your past criticisms ? <p> " My sense is that , just as I 've put past grievances aside , he 's done the same . It 's hard to know what 's in someone 's heart , but by nature , I 'm not one to hold grudges . I 've criticized him , and even today , I do n't see eye to eye with him on everything . It 's not that I 've abandoned my positions or opinions . But on issues related to the war and the diplomatic campaign , our views are very clear . And since , in my view , this is the most important matter , we are cooperating . Netanyahu is the Prime Minister ; he was elected by the people . When I look at the options today , I can say unequivocally that it is far better for Netanyahu to lead -- despite all the criticism I 've had of him -- than Gantz or Lapid . That 's my inner truth , and I ca n't tell myself a different story . "
