<h> Gazans injured in war live with disabilities but little medical support <p> A general view of Al-Mawasi , Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on Dec. 5 , 2024 . <p> Habboub Ramez/ABACA/Shutterstock <p> KHAN YOUNIS , Gaza -- The humanitarian crisis and ongoing conflict in Gaza has left in its wake thousands of people with life-altering disabilities . <p> The ongoing conflict between Hamas and Israel , coupled with Gaza 's crumbling health care infrastructure , has created what some describe as insurmountable challenges for those injured during the violence . <p> About 25% of the people who have sustained injuries in the conflict -- an estimated 22,500 people -- now require long-term rehabilitation , according to the World Health Organization . More than 106,000 people have been injured in Gaza since the war began , according to the Hamas-controlled Health Ministry . <p> But in Gaza , where medical resources are already stretched to the breaking point , even basic rehabilitation services remain out of reach . <p> Many disabled individuals face not only physical pain but also profound psychological scars and societal rejection in Gaza , international and local medical professionals said . With limited access to medical care , psychological support , and assistive devices , they are often left to navigate life with disabilities that forever alter their futures . <p> Palestinians mourn next to the bodies of their relatives who were killed in an Israeli airstrike , west of Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip , Dec. 12 , 2024 . <p> " In any circumstances , recovering from an extensive injury and attending physical rehabilitation takes an enormous amount of psychological strength . To do this in a conflict zone -- where accessing mobility aids , appropriate transportation , or any at all , physiotherapy sessions , proper nutrition , and rest is very difficult -- takes a severe toll on every individual experiencing it , " International Committee of the Red Cross spokesperson Hisham Mhanna told ABC News in an interview . <p> In the more than a year since Israel began its retaliatory war against Hamas , the terrorist group that attacked southern Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , killing some 1,200 people and taking about 250 hostage , much of Gaza has been destroyed by airstrikes , according to the United Nations . Nearly 100 hostages remain missing in Gaza with about two-thirds believed to be alive . <p> About 60% of all buildings in Gaza have been destroyed , a U.N . agency said in September . The Strip 's hospital system has " collapsed , " a spokesperson for M ? decins Sans Fronti ? res ( MSF ) , or Doctors Without Borders , told ABC News in October . Nineteen of the 36 hospitals and nine field hospitals formerly operating in Gaza were still partially functioning , the WHO said at the time . <p> Ahmed Al Haw , 17 , a displaced person living in Khan Younis , a city in southern Gaza , said he is among those whose lives have been irreversibly changed . Al Haw was injured in front of Nasser Hospital in Khan Younis while visiting a sick relative . His family 's trip turned into a nightmare when a bomb exploded near their car . <p> " My grandfather 's leg was amputated , and as the injury developed , he passed away . My mother and sister were also injured . I lost my eye and part of my foot , " Al Haw said . <p> For Al Haw , the aftermath of the explosion has been almost as unbearable as the injuries themselves . He has been thrust into a reality where even the simplest tasks are a struggle . The physical pain is unrelenting , but it pales in comparison to the psychological toll he endures , he said . <p> " At the beginning of the injury , I was in a state of depression . I did n't eat at all . One time , I even thought about committing suicide , " he said . <p> Gaza 's health care system lacks the resources to adequately address the needs of the disabled , the World Health Organization said in a recent press release announcing the publication of an analysis of the medical situation in Gaza . There is a lack of medical supplies , including prosthetics , wheelchairs and essential medications to treat people with injuries that have left them disabled , the press release said . Hospitals are overwhelmed , understaffed , and under-resourced . <p> " Accessing proper prosthetics and mobility aids is difficult in Gaza , where there are shortages of everything , including critical medical drugs and supplies . The focus of medical staff is on saving lives , as it must be in any emergency , but this leaves gaps in the post-recovery care in many areas . " Mhanna said . <p> Medical aid has accounted for about 2.5% by weight of all aid that 's been brought in Gaza since the conflict began about 14 months ago , according to the Coordination of Government Activities in the Territories , the Israeli ministry overseeing the flow of food , medical aid and other supplies into Gaza . About 28,918 tons of medical aid have crossed into the Strip , according to COGAT data . <p> " Israel actively and continuously operates to facilitate the increase of the medical response in Gaza , " COGAT says on its website . " This is done in close coordination with humanitarian aid organizations specializing in health services , and donor countries . " <p> The most common injuries medical staff see are " loss of limbs " from bombings and shrapnel , said Dr. Sami Owaimer , director of the Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Unit at the Ministry of Health in Gaza . <p> A general view of Al-Mawasi , Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on Dec. 5 , 2024 . <p> Habboub Ramez/ABACA/Shutterstock <p> " The most common injuries we see are the loss of limbs due to explosions and shrapnel , alongside eye injuries that lead to blindness and spinal injuries resulting in paralysis . These wounds often cause permanent deformities and profoundly alter lives , " Owaimer said . <p> Rehabilitation , a critical step in recovery , is virtually non-existent in Gaza . The region lacks specialized centers , modern equipment and trained professionals to provide comprehensive care . As a result , many disabled individuals are left without the tools or support needed to adapt to their new realities . <p> " There is a glaring lack of specialized rehabilitation centers and modern equipment , such as prosthetics and movement training devices , " Owaimer said . " Comprehensive programs that integrate physical , psychological and social services are desperately needed . " <p> For Al Haw , the psychological impact of his injuries is compounded by the stigma he faces from society , he said . <p> " Society does not accept me , " he said . " When I walk slowly on crutches , people start shouting at me , ' Hurry up ! ' One time , I fell to the ground . I cry every day . I have nightmares every night . I feel very lonely . I 've become mentally ill in addition to being physically and visually disabled . " <p> The lack of psychological support exacerbates the suffering of those like Al Haw . Many patients , particularly young people , find themselves battling depression and anxiety with no professional guidance or emotional support . <p> " Adapting to life with a disability is a significant challenge , " Owaimer said . " While some programs offer psychological and social rehabilitation , the lack of resources limits their reach and effectiveness . " <p> The societal challenges faced by people with disabilities in Gaza , limited facilities , lack of accessibility and entrenched stigma leave many feeling isolated and marginalized . Al Haw described this isolation as being particularly painful . As the oldest of seven siblings , he said he feels a deep responsibility to support his family , especially with his father imprisoned in an Israeli jail . <p> " I 've lost my feet and my sight , the most precious things I had . My dreams have deteriorated . I ca n't support my mother and sisters . My future is completely unknown , " he said . <p> Despite the obstacles he faces , Al Haw keeps going , driven by his love for his family . <p> " Because of my family , I am struggling to continue living . I want to have a good future , to support my family in the absence of my father , " he said . <p> " These individuals are not just numbers -- they are human beings with rights who deserve dignity , education , and proper rehabilitation , " Owaimer said . <p> " In the chaos of conflict , many people with disabilities are forgotten , " Mhanna , of the Red Cross , said . " But they are civilians and receive special protection under international humanitarian law . People with disabilities , and the different challenges and needs they have , must be taken into account by parties to a conflict during active hostilities . "
