<h> Crypto seizures announced by the Israeli security services since 2021 have frequently singled out Tron 's use by terrorists , including Hamas . <p> A crypto venture recently unveiled by US President-elect Donald Trump and his new Middle East envoy , billionaire Steve Witkoff , has partnered with a crypto platform that authorities and financial experts say has been used by criminals and Iran-backed terror groups Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> World Liberty Financial Inc. , founded by the Witkoff family two months before November 's US election with Trump as a financial beneficiary , presents concerns over ethics and conflicts of interest , say six specialists in US government ethics . <p> Among their biggest concerns is World Liberty 's new partner : Tron crypto platform . <p> Quicker and cheaper than Bitcoin , the Tron network has overtaken its rival as a vehicle for crypto transfers associated with groups designated as terror organizations by Israel , the United States and other countries , Reuters reported in 2023 , citing interviews with seven financial crime experts and cryptocurrency investigations specialists . <p> Tron announced last month it was investing $30 million in World Liberty . Tron 's founder , Chinese-born entrepreneur Justin Sun , will join the Trump-Witkoff venture as an advisor , Sun and World Liberty said on social media platform X. The British Virgin Islands-registered Tron is now World Liberty 's largest investor , Sun said.US President Donald Trump delivers remarks recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel ( credit : JONATHAN ERNST / REUTERS ) <p> Crypto seizures announced by the Israeli security services since 2021 have frequently singled out Tron 's use by terrorists , including Hamas , whose 2023 attack on Israel killed 1,200 people , according to Israeli authorities , and triggered the Gaza war . <p> Israel 's National Bureau for Counter Terror Financing ( NBTCF ) , which is responsible for such seizures , froze 186 Tron wallets since July 2021 , saying they were used by a " designated terrorist organization " or for a " severe terror crime . " Of those , Israeli authorities linked 84 Tron wallets to Hamas or Hamas allies , including Islamic Jihad , 39 to Hezbollah , and 63 to unspecified terrorist groups or money changers . The most recent Tron seizure was announced on March 28 . <p> Reuters could not independently determine Tron 's use by terror groups , and the NBTCF did not provide evidence for its assertions or respond to requests for more details . Hamas and Hezbollah did not respond to requests for comment . <p> Tron , which profits from transaction fees on its network , told Reuters its technology " has attracted both lawful users and those with illicit motives " but did not specifically respond to claims it has been used by terrorists . The company " has taken proactive measures to address the risk of illicit activities on its network , " a Tron spokesperson said in response to questions for this story . A collaboration with law enforcement launched in September froze $70 million in illicit funds , the spokesperson said . Sun , the founder , did not respond to a request for comment . <p> On the sidelines of a crypto conference in Abu Dhabi , Eric Trump told Reuters that the use of crypto by criminal groups was " everybody 's foremost concern " but said traditional financial institutions were also used to funnel " bad money . " " Anything can be manipulated if used by the wrong people , and you have to crack down on it , " Trump 's second son said , adding that the crypto industry will do " a great job " of policing itself when it comes to illicit flows . <p> The US Treasury Department has also seized Tron wallets , including an account linked to a group that the department said raised money for Hamas in the wake of the 2023 attack on Israel . In March , the Treasury leveled sanctions against a Lebanon-based money changer who it said provided Hezbollah officials with crypto accounts , including a Tron wallet , to receive funds from Iran . <p> Tron 's investment in World Liberty raised concerns among ethics experts . <p> " There are red flags all over this , " said Kathleen Clark , a professor at Washington University in St. Louis who specializes in government ethics . Her concerns include the significant size of Tron 's investment in World Liberty , whether Trump could benefit financially from it , and the alleged use of Tron by terrorists , including Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> She also highlighted an investigation of Tron founder Sun by the US Securities and Exchange Commission . In 2023 , the SEC charged Sun with fraud , accusing him of artificially inflating trading volume and concealing payments to celebrities to promote his companies . Sun , who is based in Switzerland and is a citizen of Grenada , said the SEC charges " lack merit . " The case is ongoing . <p> Clark questioned whether World Liberty 's close relationship with Sun would pose a conflict of interest for Trump once his administration takes over the SEC in January . <p> Spokespeople for Trump and his transition team did not directly respond to questions about Trump 's financial ties to World Liberty , the Tron investment and potential conflicts . " President Trump did n't get into politics for profit , " said transition spokesperson Karoline Leavitt . " He 's fighting because he loves the people of this country and wants to make America great again . " <p> Terror groups and criminals like Tron because it gives users the option to conceal their identities , charges low fees and can be converted into cash easily , according to some crypto experts . <h> Potential conflicts <p> Witkoff co-founded World Liberty and has a stake in a company -- WC Digital Fi , LLC -- that is entitled to some of World Liberty 's revenues , according to the company 's terms . He is a close friend of Trump 's and a donor to his Republican presidential campaign . <p> He plans to put all his investments in a " blind trust , " said a person familiar with Witkoff 's plans who declined to be identified . The source , however , said Witkoff would retain ownership of his assets . Typically , in a blind trust , an outside manager controls an official 's assets , selling off those that pose a conflict and reinvesting the proceeds into investments unknown to the owner . <p> Witkoff declined to comment . World Liberty did not respond to requests for comment about potential ethical issues and Tron 's investment in the company . <p> Even with a trust , World Liberty sets up potential conflicts of interest , the ethics specialists told Reuters . <p> Witkoff 's Middle East policy recommendations could be affected by what he sees as best for World Liberty as opposed to the United States , they said . Even if Witkoff sets up a trust and is n't involved in World Liberty 's day-to-day operations , potential conflicts exist so long as he maintains a financial stake in the company , said Richard Painter , ethics counsel to former president George W. Bush and a University of Minnesota professor . <p> " Whether you 're involved in the management of the company or not , that 's not relevant at all . What 's relevant is if you own a financial interest that could be directly impacted by your government work , " said Painter . <p> Trump also faces potential conflicts from World Liberty , the experts said . <p> Trump is listed as " chief crypto advocate " on World Liberty 's website and is entitled to a cut of its revenues , according to the company 's terms and conditions . <p> World Liberty sells a proprietary token that can not be traded , those terms and conditions say , unlike Bitcoin and other crypto tokens . Trump and other unnamed " affiliates " are entitled to 75% of some World Liberty revenues , according to the terms , raising the possibility of people buying World Liberty coins to try to gain favor with him . <p> " Is this an alternative way of ingratiating yourself with Trump ? " Clark said of World Liberty . <p> Trump 's business dealings drew close scrutiny in his first term . While he was in office , at least 20 governments , including Saudi Arabia and China , collectively spent more than $7.8 million at his hotels and other properties , according to a report published by congressional Democrats in January . Trump did not face legal consequences for that spending . <p> The Trump transition team did not respond to a request for information on what steps he would take to address any conflicts from World Liberty . <p> World Liberty 's connection with Trump features heavily on the company 's website . A picture of Trump , ear bandaged after the July assassination attempt on him , greets visitors on the home page . The first people listed as members of the World Liberty team are Trump and his three sons , Don Jr. , Eric and Barron , who are described as " Web3 ambassadors . " Trump himself , along with relatives and associates , unveiled the business during a live event on X in September . Don Jr . and Barron did not respond to requests for comment . <p> Through World Liberty , Trump and his family could also benefit from possible regulatory changes that his administration makes involving crypto , the experts said . During the campaign , Trump vowed to name a new SEC chair to replace Gary Gensler , who took on the crypto industry with various lawsuits . Last week , he tapped crypto-friendly Washington lawyer Paul Atkins for the role . <p> Witkoff 's sons , Alex and Zach , are also listed as co-founders of World Liberty . They did not respond to requests for comment . Eric Trump told Reuters he is " very involved " in World Liberty . <p> If foreign governments or sovereign wealth funds were to invest in World Liberty , that could place Witkoff and Trump in violation of the US Constitution 's " emoluments " clause , designed to thwart corruption and improper influence on government , said Larry Noble , a professor at American University and former general counsel of the Federal Election Commission . The clause bars federal officials from accepting gifts or other advantages from foreign governments without congressional approval . <p> Diplomats said they were surprised when Witkoff , a New York real-estate investor , was named special Middle East envoy on Nov. 12 given his lack of foreign policy experience . He will assume the job at a time of heightened regional tensions , including the Gaza conflict , turmoil in Syria and the risk of a direct confrontation between Israel and Iran . <p> Witkoff donated $250,000 to the pro-Trump super PAC spending group MAGA Inc in December 2023 . He is worth at least $1 billion , according to Forbes . <p> Already , the lines between Witkoff 's business venture and his diplomatic role are blurring . Witkoff spoke on Monday at the Abu Dhabi crypto conference . The program listed him as Trump 's special envoy to the region and also mentioned the crypto business in his biography . " A forward-thinking entrepreneur , Steve is now focused on the intersection of real estate , Bitcoin , and crypto , " the conference website read . Those attending paid as much as $9,999 to access special sessions , which were closed to the media . Tron 's Sun was also listed as a speaker . <p> Witkoff did not respond to questions about the conference . <h> Special envoy , few rules <p> Witkoff 's new role of special envoy is not defined by law and may not require confirmation by the US Senate . The incoming administration could define him as a " special government employee , " a designation meant for temporary roles , said Scott Greytak , director of advocacy at Transparency International 's Washington office . <p> In that case , " unlike regular government employees , he can continue receiving outside income without limits , " he said . " However , he must file a financial disclosure form and can not take any official actions that would financially benefit himself . " <p> Witkoff should also sign an agreement with the State Department that he will not talk with foreign government officials about crypto while on official business , said Meredith McGehee , an independent ethicist and former policy director of nonprofit watchdog the Campaign Legal Center . " That should be a wall . You ca n't say : ' By the way , what 's your government going to do on crypto ? ' " McGehee said . <p> Special envoys under Biden , former President Barack Obama , and Trump 's own first administration were typically not from the business sector , Reuters found in a review of the emissaries . None had founded a major company linked to a presidential candidate weeks before the election . <p> Some had extensive investments in the private sector , however . Multimillionaire John Kerry divested assets identified by government ethics officers as potentially conflicting with his role as Biden 's special climate envoy , according to a 2021 certificate of divestiture from the US Office of Government Ethics . <p> Trump has appointed a close business associate before . In 2016 , he tapped the Trump Organization 's chief legal officer , Jason Greenblatt , as Special Representative for International Negotiations , a key role in Israeli-Palestinian talks . Greenblatt told Reuters he left Trump 's company before taking up his White House role . He did not recall whether he sold his investments before working as a special envoy , but said he would have followed applicable rules .
