<p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , fires towards a poster at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which pictures the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ouster Syrian president Bashar Assad , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Turkey 's Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan , left , speaks with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a meeting with the foreign ministers of the Arab Contact Group on Syria in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> A torn posters shows the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ousted Syrian president Bashar Assad , that were set at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , uses his knife to tear a poster at the entrance to the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which shows the ouster Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> The United Nations ( UN ) Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen speaks during his meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <h> Top diplomats from the United States , the Arab League and Turkey are meeting in Jordan to discuss Syria 's transition after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government last weekend <p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , fires towards a poster at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which pictures the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ouster Syrian president Bashar Assad , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> Turkey 's Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan , left , speaks with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken during a meeting with the foreign ministers of the Arab Contact Group on Syria in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> A torn posters shows the late Syrian President Hafez Assad and his son the ousted Syrian president Bashar Assad , that were set at the entrance of the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> A Syrian fighter from rebel group , uses his knife to tear a poster at the entrance to the notorious security detention centre called Palestine Branch , which shows the ouster Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus , Syria , Saturday , Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Hussein Malla - staff , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken speaks during his meeting with the United Nations ( UN ) Special Envoy for Syria in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Andrew Caballero-Reynolds - pool , ASSOCIATED PRESS <p> The United Nations ( UN ) Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pedersen speaks during his meeting with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Jordan 's southern Red Sea coastal city of Aqaba , Saturday Dec. 14 , 2024 . <p> Top diplomats from the United States , the Arab League and Turkey are meeting in Jordan to discuss how to assist Syria 's transition after the fall of Bashar Assad 's government a week ago . <p> U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken joined foreign ministers and senior officials from the European Union and United Nations in Jordan on Saturday to try to find consensus on what Syria 's new leadership should prioritize . No Syrian representatives were set to attend . <p> The collapse of the Assad family 's more than half-century of rule has sparked new fears of instability in a region already shaken by the Israel-Hamas war in Gaza and hostilities between Israel and the Lebanon-based Hezbollah despite a tenuous ceasefire . <p> The U.S. is making a renewed push for a ceasefire in Gaza , where the war has plunged more than 2 million Palestinians into a severe humanitarian crisis . <p> Israel 's war against Hamas has killed over 44,800 Palestinians in Gaza , more than half of them women and children , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not say how many were combatants . The Israeli military says it has killed over 17,000 militants , without providing evidence . <p> The October 2023 Hamas attack that sparked the war killed some 1,200 people in Israel , mostly civilians , and around 250 others were taken hostage . Some 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third of whom are believed to be dead . <p> Here 's the latest : <h> Turkey reopens its embassy in Syria <p> ISTANBUL -- Turkey reopened its embassy in Syria on Saturday , becoming the first country to do so since the end of Bashar Assad 's rule last weekend . The Syrian insurgents who overthrew Assad had received vital help from Turkey . <p> The Turkish flag was raised above the compound in Damascus for the first time since diplomatic ties were cut in 2012 . The embassy suspended operations 12 years ago due to insecurity during the Syrian civil war . <p> Several countries maintained diplomatic ties with Assad 's government during the 13-year conflict , while others reopened their diplomatic missions in recent years as they sought to normalize relations . <h> US Secretary of State Blinken wrapping up regional tour in Jordan <p> AQABA , Jordan -- U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken says broad consensus exists among regional partners that Syria 's new government must be inclusive , must respect women and minority rights , reject terrorism and secure and destroy suspected Assad-era chemical weapons stockpiles . <p> Blinken is wrapping up a three-country regional tour in Aqaba after visiting Iraq , Turkey and Jordan once already this week . <p> Earlier Saturday in a meeting with U.N . Special Envoy for Syria Geir Pederson , Blinken said he expected to talk about the challenges ahead for Syria and " our determination to work together to support a Syrian-led transition where the United Nations plays a critical role , particularly when it comes to the provision of assistance , to the protection of minorities . " <p> Pederson agreed , saying : " What is so critical in Syria is that we see a credible and inclusive political process that brings together all communities in Syria . And the second point is that we need to make sure that state institutions do not collapse , and that we get in humanitarian assistance as quickly as possible . And if we can achieve that , perhaps there is a new opportunity for the Syrian people . " <p> In announcing Saturday 's meetings , the Jordanian Foreign Ministry said the ministers would " discuss ways to support a comprehensive political process led by Syrians to achieve a transitional process , " which " ensures the reconstruction of Syrian state institutions , and preserves Syria 's unity , territorial integrity , sovereignty , security , stability , and the rights of all its citizens . " <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
