<h> Trump Promised No Wars and Lower Prices . Now He 's Walking That Back <p> Donald Trump walks onto the floor of the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) after being named TIME 's " Person of the Year " for the second time on December 12 , 2024 in New York City.Spencer Platt/Getty Images <p> A promise from Donald Trump is n't worth very much . But the brazenness with which he 's already abandoning some of his key campaign pledges is nonetheless remarkable . <p> In the past week , Trump -- who was elected , in large part , on the premise that he would rescue everyday Americans from the economic ruin Joe Biden supposedly wrought -- has all but admitted he was full of shit . First , he toldMeet the Press last Sunday that he " ca n't guarantee " his tariff plan would n't raise costs for consumers , even though he repeatedly said they would n't . Then , in an interview with Time after being named its Person of the Year -- a distinction he appears to relish almost as much as being elected president -- he acknowledged that it would be " very hard " to actually bring grocery costs down , despite vowing , during his campaign , to " rapidly drive prices down and make America affordable again . " <p> " It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up , " Trump toldTime this week . <p> Well , no kidding ! That , in a nutshell , is what Biden and Kamala Harris were arguing . Trump , by contrast , was essentially telling his supporters that living costs could start coming down on his first day in office : " You just watch , " he said at a North Carolina rally . " They 'll come down fast . " Now , as he approaches his second term with little more than the " concepts of a plan " he touted in his September debate with Harris , he 's far less definitive : " I 'd like to bring them down , " he said . " I think that they will . " <p> Trump did n't only make grand economic promises , of course . He also spent his campaign trying to draw a contrast between himself as a supposed foreign policy dove and a Biden administration navigating polarizing international conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza : " I 'm not going to start wars , " Trump said in his victory speech . " I 'm going to stop wars . " But , when Time asked him about the " chances of going to war with Iran during your next term , " he responded : " Anything can happen . It 's a very volatile situation . " <p> The situation was made more volatile , it should be noted , by his 2018 withdrawal from the Iran nuclear agreement Barack Obama struck in his second term . Iran has pushed to increase its enrichment program since Trump tore up the agreement . Now , as he prepares to take office once again , Trump and his team are considering airstrikes on Iran to contain the country 's nuclear program , the Wall Street Journalreported Friday . It 's possible he 's rattling the saber in an effort to force Tehran to the negotiating table , as he tried to do with North Korea . But a member of Trump 's transition team implied to the Journal that force may be needed against Iran because of the regime 's plot to assassinate Trump , which was outlined in Justice Department charges last month . " That certainly influences everybody 's thinking when it comes to what the relationship is out of the gate , " the transition member said . <p> Trump is full of bluster and hollow assurances -- " We 're not touching " Social Security or Medicare , he insists , despite Republican proposals to do just that -- but there are at least two agenda items he still intends to fulfill : tax cuts for the wealthy and a crackdown on immigration . The former probably wo n't help the working-class Americans who helped him win back the White House based on his economic promises . But , as Trump sees it , his supporters will be satisfied if he fulfills the latter : " What was a bigger factor than the economy , I believe , was the border , " he told Time . <p> And to secure it , Trump said , he would " go as far as I 'm allowed to go , according to the laws of our country " -- including by deploying the military and building more detention camps . " Whatever it takes to get them out , " Trump said of undocumented immigrants . " I do n't care . " <h> Eric Lutz <h> Contributing Editor <p> Eric Lutz is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair , where he has been covering national affairs since 2018 . He chronicles the chaos of Trump era politics , reporting on the issues , ideas , and personalities driving the day . He has also written for publications like The Guardian and Rolling Stone , and serves ... Read more <p> With a standout role in Bad Sisters season two , the veteran actor takes stock of a life lived on stage and screen , from the roles you know to those she 'd prefer you forget : " The Avengers was absolutely a terrible film . "
