<p> While the massacre of Oct. 7 , 2023 , was one of the most traumatic events in modern Jewish history , it 's obvious now that it was a massive , perhaps existential , blunder by the Islamic State and a stunning defeat for its allies both in the Middle East and Washington . <p> Oct. 7 transformed the Middle East in ways that seemed impossible only a few years ago . Hamas , perhaps the most immediate threat to both Jewish and Arab lives in the region , is largely eradicated . Hezbollah , the theocratic militia that 's kept Lebanon in a state of turmoil and war for decades , is reeling . Indeed , it was Israel 's success against the latter that helped send Bashar Assad , a real-world genocidal dictator , into Russian exile . Most of all , events have left Iran , which spent decades building its proxies throughout the Middle East , impotent . <p> It 's no surprise that on their way out , Barack Obama cronies in the Biden administration approved another $10 billion in sanctions relief for the mullahs by waiving restricted payment transfers from the Iraqi government . These are the same people who had attempted to lift Hamas and propped up its benefactors in Iran with planeloads of cash . And the same people did everything possible to handcuff Israel in its war against Hamas and Hezbollah . <p> Not only had the White House threatened to withhold aid if the Israeli military went into Rafah to eliminate Hamas battalions cowering behind women and children , when Israel pulled off its ingenious pager operation , wounding and killing hundreds of Hezbollah operatives , our uncannily misguided secretary of state , Antony Blinken , warned that " all parties " should " avoid escalating conflict , " treating our close allies and Islamists , in this case a group that once murdered 220 Marines in Beirut , as equals . <p> Fortunately , Israel ignored Biden and eliminated Nasrallah , who was involved in those murders , and decimated much of Hezbollah 's capacity to wage war . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , far more risk-averse and far less hawkish than his critics maintain , was compelled by the popular will to settle all family business after Oct 7 . The conventional wisdom has been that Israel , a small nation , is impelled to finish wars quickly or risk an economic crash . That was surely the case in the conventional wars of the past . The Jewish state proved it could engage in a prolonged conflict , striking one decisive victory after the next . <p> Conventional wisdom also said that Israel would be unable to effectively strike deep within Iran . Yet , after the Islamic regime launched 500 ballistic missiles and drones in its direction , Israel slipped 100 jets into the Iranian territory and calmly engaged in precision strikes -- a warning that it could mete out far more devastation if it felt like it . And perhaps it will in the future . <p> On Oct. 8 , Israelis woke up to a gruesome massacre and perhaps the most devastating security failure in their country 's history -- behind only the Yom Kippur War . On Wednesday , they woke up to the news that Israel was annihilating the Syrian air force , its armaments , and perhaps chemical weapons storehouses , ensuring that no advanced weaponry falls into the hands of jihadis . It also secured a more defensible border while cutting off Hezbollah from Iran . <p> Politics in the Jewish state remains as raucous and unpredictable as ever . Whatever happens , however , the deadly experiment of an autonomous Gaza is also over . Until there 's a profound cultural change within Palestinian society , which entails not only living peacefully with their neighbors but accepting history , there will never be a Palestinian state in Judea and Samaria or Gaza . And it wo n't matter how many U.N . resolutions are passed , how many Ivy Leaguers protest , or how many ICC arrest warrants are issued . While it might come as a shock to many Westerners , there 's a strong chance an Arab " Palestine " may never exist . And there is no moral or historical imperative to make it happen . The two-state solution is unnecessary . There is already a 24-state solution in place -- only one of them Jewish . <p> It is possible that Oct. 7 also had a broader impact on American domestic politics than is acknowledged . Starting with its deadly Afghanistan withdrawal , the Biden foreign policy agenda undermined our standing in the world and its standing among American voters . There is no place in the world I can think of that is better off today than it was before Biden was elected . <p> But once progressives began rationalizing and justifying wanton murders and rapes of Oct. 7 , the average voter got a good look at the extremism that had taken over higher education , swaths of the media , and Washington . The subsequent coddling of Islamist-friendly protesters by virtually every national Democrat who was n't named Sen. John Fetterman ( D-PA ) lent to the general ( and accurate ) impression that progressivism had gone off the rails . Even voters who do n't care very much about foreign affairs surely understand that people who romanticize Hamas also detest the United States . BLM , Antifa , Queers for Palestine , et al are all propelled by the same mind virus . <p> Then there 's the Jewish vote , which was largely immovable for many decades . Defining " Jewish voter " is no easy feat , but it 's clear that a consequential number of them moved away from the Democrats . Whereas most Jewish voters had overlooked the Farrakhan and Squad factions , the post-Oct. 7 mainstreaming and dramatic spread of Jew-hatred and " anti-Zionism " among the activist Left was probably a bit much . <p> Oct. 7 also allowed many Jews to see the true colors of leftists such as Sen. Bernie Sanders ( I-VT ) and other Democrats who follow his lead in voting to deny Israel , not Egypt or Saudi Arabia or Qatar , weaponry for what they are . And the massacre also pulled back the veil on progressive Jewish front organizations that revoltingly support the enemies of their ethnic brethren and the U.S. <p> There is a chance for peace in the region . Though it is difficult to be pollyannaish about such things . When the Taliban , Palestinians , Turkey , and Qatar shower praise on a movement , as they do on the al-Qaida-affiliated group that has conquered Syria , the world has reason to be concerned . The Turkish government would like to set up its own proxy state in Syria , though the Arabs tend to detest the Turks . And the Turks , of course , detest the Kurds , who are being ethnically cleansed as we speak . ( No college campus protests for a Kurdish state , alas . ) And , of course , the Christians and Alawites are now in danger from Islamists . <p> Or , in other words , the Middle East is still the Middle East . <p> The Trump administration had already dispelled the prevailing myth that peace in the Middle East can only be achieved by placating the intractable Palestinians . But the Biden administration immediately overturned Trump-era policy , releasing hundreds of millions of dollars of funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency and the Palestinians , abetting the Oct. 7 attack on our ally , and the murder of American citizens . <p> Power and strength , not capitulation and mollification , work in the Middle East . And the world is a better place today because of Israel 's victories . It 's not outlandish to believe that Iranians might now be more open to making a genuine deal with President-elect Donald Trump , rather than risking implosion . What would be best for the world , of course , is if the U.S. exerted its economic pressure and precipitated the fall of the mullahs in Iran , a country that has no real geopolitical reason to be at war with Israel or the West . <p> Whatever happens , though , the Middle East has been forever transformed by Oct 7.
