<h> An Israeli cafe chain launched by and for Oct. 7 survivors is expanding to more cities <h> The first branch opened as a pop-up in Tel Aviv 's glitzy Sarona complex , staffed by residents of Netiv Haasara , one of the communities targeted in the massacre . <p> By DEBORAH DANAN/JTA DECEMBER 12 , 2024 22:33 <p> Reut Karp , whose ex-husband was murdered on Oct. 7 , 2023 , in front of their children , shows off art connected to the massacre at Cafe Otef , the Tel Aviv coffee shop she manages in his honor. ( photo credit : DEBORAH DANAN/JTA ) <p> A woman with a gaunt face and ripped pajama pants ambles into Cafe Otef , nestled in an up-and-coming yet still gritty corner of Tel Aviv 's Florentin neighborhood . She gestures to the water dispenser , and Ziv Hai , a worker at the cafe , obliges with a glass while owner Reut Karp offers her a cigarette . <p> " We do n't have them in our region , " Hai said about apparently unhoused people . " Learning how to navigate that has also been part of the journey . " <p> Hai was far from home because the cafe is no ordinary establishment . Founded by Tamir Barelko , a serial entrepreneur in the culinary world , it is the second in the Cafe Otef chain -- " Otef " referring to the " envelope " region of Israel bordering Gaza that Hamas terrorists invaded on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> The first branch opened as a pop-up in Tel Aviv 's glitzy Sarona complex , staffed by residents of Netiv Haasara , one of the communities targeted in the massacre . This branch , named Cafe Otef-Re'im , honors the kibbutz of the same name , where 80 terrorists invaded , killing seven residents and kidnapping four . The kibbutz was also next to where the Nova music festival massacre took place . <h> Staffed by displaced residents <p> Staffed entirely by displaced residents from the battered communities in the south , the cafe offers a wide range of goods from that region : cheeses from Be'eri , honey from Kibbutz Erez , jams , spreads , granola and specialty cakes , alongside branded items such T-shirts , water bottles , and aprons -- all sourced from small producers affected by the massacre . Cafe Otef-Re'im is the flagship in a growing chain that honors and benefits communities ravaged by Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel . ( credit : DEBORAH DANAN/JTA ) <p> But the piece de resistance is the chocolate , crafted from recipes by Dvir Karp , the owner 's late ex-husband , who was murdered on Oct. 7 in front of their children , then ages 10 and 8 . <p> Reut Karp said that during the pandemic , " when we all thought we were going to die , " she had urged her ex-husband to write down his chocolate recipes . Despite his initial resistance -- insisting he had them all in his head -- he eventually complied . After his murder , Karp felt a profound responsibility to preserve his legacy . She believes Dvir would have been proud of her posthumous rebranding of his chocolates , including a new logo inspired by the luxury brand Cartier , though she joked he would " probably say I went overboard . " <p> Most of Re'im 's residents were evacuated to nearby apartment buildings in Florentin , while Hai , who is from a different kibbutz close to Egypt , was initially relocated with his family to Ofakim , a small city near Beersheba . In April , he moved to Tel Aviv , where he said he experienced an intense culture shock . <p> " At first , I was like , what the hell am I doing here , and I just wanted to move back , " he said . Over time , however , he adjusted to city life , finding a sense of belonging through his work at the cafe , which opened in the summer . <p> " I feel like I left a piece of myself behind in Sufa , and here in Tel Aviv , I 'm trying to rebuild myself anew . The cafe gives me a place where I can feel comfortable , " he said . " I can tell a dark joke , and everyone here -- because they 're also from the south -- gets it . " <p> Karp , who co-owns another cafe featuring Dvir 's chocolates in Israel 's south , was approached by Barelko to manage the Re'im branch . She declined , citing her responsibilities to her three children who are still coping with the trauma of the attack ( Karp herself was away for the weekend of Oct. 7 ) . Determined to involve her , Barelko appointed managers to handle daily operations , allowing Karp to serve as the owner and hostess . <p> The role proved a perfect fit for Karp , who expressed gratitude for having a reason to get up each day . <p> " So many times over the past six months , I 've said , thank God I have this place that forces me out of bed . And all the workers say the same thing , " she shared , highlighting one employee who had lost his entire family in the attack . <p> The cafe has become a gathering place for those directly impacted by the events of Oct. 7 -- survivors of the Nova music festival , bereaved parents and others -- while also offering a space for those not directly affected to engage with their stories and find meaning . " They want to feel a sense of connection and to know it 's not just a gimmick , " Karp said . <p> " People always say Tel Avivians are living in a bubble -- sitting in coffee shops while soldiers are fighting and hostages are trapped in Hamas tunnels , " she added . " But here , people let themselves enjoy coffee without the guilt . " <h> Meeting point for evacuees <p> The cafe 's location in the center of the country has also made it a natural meeting point for evacuees from both Israel 's north and south who have been relocated to the city . Karp noted the unique camaraderie that has formed between the two groups , describing it as a shared understanding of what it means to be displaced within their own country . <p> As if on cue , an older woman from Kibbutz Manara in the north approached and chatted with Karp about her recent visit to her kibbutz -- the first since the ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah in late November . Their laughter seemed out of place given the context of the conversation , with the older woman remarking that it would take " at least a decade " to rebuild the kibbutz . Over 70% of the homes in Manara have been damaged , with rocket fragments still scattered across the area , prompting some residents to compare it to Chernobyl . <p> The two hug before the older woman walks away -- a scene that plays out repeatedly throughout the afternoon . <p> " Some people recognize me from TV but hesitate to ask questions or offer a hug , " Karp said . " But that contact is like a human charger for me . " <p> Around 100 of Re'im 's 450 residents have returned home . Yet , according to Karp , many of their temporary neighbors in Tel Aviv feel conflicted about their departure . " On the one hand , they 're happy for us to go back home , but on the other , they want us to stay because our presence here has put a face to Oct. 7 , " she said . <p> The red anemone , or kalanit -- Israel 's national flower , ubiquitous in the region of Re'im -- is equally ubiquitous at the cafe , embroidered on staff uniforms , printed on takeaway cups , and displayed on ceramic items for sale . But otherwise , there are few overt signs of the cafe 's deeper purpose . One less obvious sign comes in an innocuous poster on the wall , its tiny spiral text easy to miss . <p> Created by Adi Drimer , an art teacher from Re'im , the artwork contains the haunting text messages sent in the kibbutz WhatsApp group on Oct. 7 . Karp points out her own chilling plea from that day , begging other kibbutz members to rescue her children : " Urgent ! Urgent ! Daria and Lavi are alone , " read her text . " Dvir was murdered . " <p> Karp said the decision to avoid making the cafe overtly about the massacre was deliberate , respecting those who prefer to keep their coffee and grief separate . <p> " We also do n't want to sink into the sadness of it all , " she said . " This is a place for renewal , and when people see us moving forward , it inspires them . " <p> Barelko has big plans for the chain . Two new branches are set to open in the coming weeks : one in Rehovot , called Cafe Otef -- Sderot , for residents of the southern town , and a misnomered Cafe Otef -- Kiryat Shmona , paying tribute to those evacuated from the northern town for 14 months . <p> He also plans to introduce food trucks at various locations across the country and expand the initiative to include employment for soldiers disabled in the war , whose numbers are estimated in the thousands . <p> " In the end , we realized this is the best approach to rehabilitation . It builds both hope and resilience , " he said .
