<p> Outgoing New York Democratic Rep. Jamaal Bowman said Friday that he wishes he did not pull the fire alarm in the House office building in September 2023 and tacitly blamed his blowout loss in June 's primary election on Jews . <p> Bowman made the remarks in an interview with NY1 . A member of the far-left " squad " Democrats , Bowman lost the Democratic primary for New York 's 16th district to Westchester County Executive George Latimer by 17 points , an outcome which pundits have attributed in part to Bowman 's antics and his outspoken opposition to Israel given that the district has a sizable population of Jewish Americans . <p> The incident Bowman is referring to occurred in September 2023 , when he famously set off the fire alarm in the House office building just before a key vote on a government funding bill was to take place . Bowman explained himself by saying that he thought pulling the fire alarm would open a nearby door . <p> Bowman then pivoted to talking about Israel and the role his opposition to its war in the Gaza Strip played in his ouster . <p> " My district is a super pro-Israel district . The minute I called for a ceasefire , that was the last straw with many in the district , " Bowman told NY1 . " Because I beat former Congressman Elliot Engel , it was a target on my back from that community since then . " <p> The American Israel Public Affairs Committee ( AIPAC ) poured millions of dollars into Bowman 's primary race against Latimer to defeat Bowman , and Bowman repeatedly railed against AIPAC as a nefarious entity looking to boot him from Congress simply because he opposed Israel . Bowman notably characterized claims that Hamas raped women during the Oct. 7 massacres as " propaganda " in comments that he subsequently walked back . <p> " As a party , you should have never let a right-wing Democrat who 's a bit older challenge Jamaal Bowman in his primary , because that became a public execution for the country to see , " Bowman said , referencing himself in the third-person . " Democrats , you 're going to allow this black man to be attacked in this way , without any pushback , without any recourse ? " <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;3565;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours .
