<p> NEW YORK -- Veteran documentarian Alex Gibney was n't planning a film about Israel -- until one day last year , when a stunning leak fell into his hands . <p> The leak turned out to be more like a deluge . <p> Suddenly , Gibney , through a source who contacted him on the Signal messaging app , was being offered access to copious video recordings of police interviews with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , his wife , Sara , his son Yair , and a host of associates and benefactors , all conducted as part of the sprawling corruption case against Netanyahu . It amounted to an astonishing 1,000-plus hours of tapes . <p> The Oscar-winning filmmaker did n't speak Hebrew , but sensed this was something big . He turned to longtime Israeli investigative reporter Raviv Drucker , who did a deep dive into the material , Gibney says , and showed him that " we had something that was very explosive . " Then Gibney enlisted colleague Alexis Bloom , who had worked in Israel , to direct . <p> Advertisement <p> The result : " The Bibi Files , " a hard-hitting documentary that certainly has timing on its side -- this week , as it was released on streaming , Netanyahu took the stand in the long-running case . <p> If the timing is fortuitous , the film faced other obstacles . For one thing , Gibney and Bloom had to raise funds without disclosing to potential backers what they had , given the secrecy involved . Many potential backers and distributors were also nervous about getting involved , especially once war broke out after the Hamas-led attack on Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Then there was the biggest obstacle of all : The film can not legally be shown in Israel , due to privacy laws regulating such proceedings . <p> Advertisement <p> That does n't mean Israelis are n't seeing it , though . Many have managed to watch the film either by using a VPN to bypass streaming restrictions , or by watching leaked versions that made their way to social media . " The film is being pirated like wildfire in Israel , " says Bloom . <p> And it has made a predictable splash , just as Netanyahu becomes the first sitting Israeli leader to take the stand as a criminal defendant . On Tuesday , he promised defiantly to knock down the " absurd " corruption allegations against him . <p> The longest-serving prime minister in Israel 's history is charged with fraud , breach of trust and accepting bribes in three separate cases . He is accused of accepting tens of thousands of dollars ' worth of cigars and champagne from a billionaire Hollywood producer in exchange for assistance with personal and business interests , and of promoting advantageous regulations for media moguls in exchange for favorable coverage . <p> Advertisement <p> In the leaked police videos , the 75-year-old leader sits at his desk in a surprisingly cramped office , a map of the region behind him . He expresses outrage at the proceedings , calls witnesses liars , and notes he has much weightier matters to attend to . At one point , asked about numbers of champagne bottles , he says he spends his time counting missiles threatening Israel , not bottles . Frequently , his answer is he does n't remember . <p> " We have a number of people on the record telling us what a great memory he has , " says Gibney . " And almost every question that could be possibly incriminating , he says ' I ca n't recall . ' " <p> Reviews in Israeli media for " The Bibi Files " have mostly been positive , while noting that Netanyahu is portrayed in a harsh light . Not surprisingly , public reaction reflects longstanding divisions over the polarizing leader . He and his supporters say he 's the subject of a witch hunt orchestrated by a hostile media and biased justice system out to topple his rule . <p> " Netanyahu 's opponents will swear by the film and will only become more convinced that he is corrupt , dizzy with power and leading us to destruction , " Nir Wolf , TV critic for the Netanyahu-friendly Israel Hayom paper , wrote . " His supporters will want to embrace him more . " <p> Netanyahu has also noticed the film . In September , his lawyer asked the country 's attorney general to investigate Drucker , who is a co-producer with Gibney , accusing him of trying to influence the legal proceedings . No investigation has been launched . ( In the film , Drucker notes that Netanyahu has previously sued him three times . ) <p> The film , which intersperses police video with commentary from former officials , Netanyahu associates , journalists and other analysts -- including , frequently , Drucker -- begins with the prime minister sitting for his first interview . <p> Advertisement <p> " With Netanyahu , nothing concentrates his mind more than the sound of the prison gate slammed behind his back , " comments Nimrod Novik , a former advisor to late Prime Minister Shimon Peres . One of Gibney and Bloom 's key arguments will be that Netanyahu 's fear of potential prison time has influenced his policy decisions -- from judicial reform to war . <p> In other footage , Arnon Milchan , the billionaire Hollywood mogul , Netanyahu friend and , more recently , prosecution witness , describes delivering fancy pink champagne on demand for Sara Netanyahu , sometimes toting a cooler himself , as part of an alleged gifts-for-favors scheme . Elsewhere , Sara Netanyahu sits for questioning herself . " How are you not ashamed of yourselves ? " she sharply admonishes the interviewers . She tells them that outside Israel , her husband is justly received as a king . <p> Footage also includes interviews with Israeli American billionaires Sheldon and Miriam Adelson . Sheldon Adelson expresses discomfort with the friendship -- " I do n't think I 'll continue the relationship with them " -- and dismay over the cost of Netanyahu 's preferred Cuban cigars : $1,100 for a box of 10 . <p> And a combative Yair Netanyahu , the couple 's 33-year old son , tells his questioners : " You 're investigating me because the Israeli police has become the Stasi secret police , wanting to overthrow the government . " <p> Director Bloom insists the film is not intended to preach to the choir -- that it is made not for leftist opponents of Netanyahu , but for centrists . <p> Advertisement <p> " You know , a hardcore Bibi-ist is probably going to remain a hardcore Bibi-est , " the director says . " But there are a lot of centrists . ... And it 's very much a portrait of one family . I do n't think it 's anti-Israel , in the slightest . " <p> The filmmakers say they paused after the Oct. 7 attack , trying to figure out how to approach it . As part of the historical context in the film , they include chilling scenes of the raid on Israel and the subsequent war in Gaza . <p> " What was this going to mean ? " Gibney says they wondered . " With a bit of time , it became clear that this tale that we started before Oct. 7 remained a story of corruption -- the size of the corruption kept getting bigger and bigger and bigger . " <p> The film , which began streaming Wednesday on the new service Jolt.film , draws a direct connection between Netanyahu 's legal problems and the war . Through various commentators , it argues that the criminal cases led the prime minister to launch a campaign to weaken the country 's judiciary , which in turn sparked mass protests and divisions that created an image of national weakness and led Hamas to attack . ( Netanyahu rejects all such accusations ) . <p> Bloom says she hopes people will , having watched " The Bibi Files , " consider the idea that " term limits are a good idea . " ( Netanyahu has served a total of 17 years as prime minister . ) <p> And she also hopes they will take away a simple concept . " It 's OK to criticize the prime minister of Israel , and it 's not antisemitic and it 's not anti-Israel , " the director says . " He 's a political leader , like any other . "
