<h> In an interview with Yaara Bank Plotkin , Michal Magen shared her experiences : " We want to create a strong future . " <p> Michal Magen , Co-Community Manager of Kibbutz Nahal Oz , recently shared her firsthand account of the October 7 attack during an interview with Yaara Bank Plotkin , President of the Jerusalem Post Miami Summit . The interview provided insight into the devastating experience Magen and her community endured as the Hamas terrorists launched an assault on their kibbutz near the border . <p> Magen 's community suffered severe losses , with fifteen members killed , including entire families . Despite the overwhelming tragedy , Magen remains hopeful for the future . After the attack , she was appointed to lead the efforts to rebuild . <p> " We are broken , " Magen admitted , but her vision is clear , as she stated that the community is looking at the future : " We to rebuild it into the best place in the world , we want to create a strong future for our families and new residents . " <p> Magen went on to recall the harrowing early hours of October 7 , which saw the Simchat Torah morning quickly escalating into an all-out attack . " We understood very fast that we were under massive attack , " she said . As the terrorists breached the kibbutz , Magen and her family retreated to their safe room , but their safety was far from guaranteed . <p> The family was left without electricity , water , or internet , isolated and uncertain of the situation outside . Amid the chaos , Magen faced a moment of pure terror , thinking she might never see her children again . " I thought about my older daughters , that maybe I 'm going to say goodbye , " she reflected . The horror outside continued until the evening , with bombs and violence affecting the kibbutz all day long . <p> Magen mentioned the kibbutz members that are still held hostage in Gaza , Omri Miran and Tzachi Idan , emphasizing the unwavering commitment to bring them home . " This is our mission , " she said , " and we can achieve it together . Rebuilding will be our response to the events of October 7 , showing that we will rise stronger , not just for ourselves , but for all of Israel . " <p> Bank Plotkin concluded their conversation and expressed her will to witness and visit the rebuilt Kibbutz , urging the attendees to do the same .
