<h> Murray is an associate editor of the magazine , according to their website , and his column accused Hijab of " whipping up a mob on the streets of London . " <p> British Muslim influencer Mohammed Hijab , known for his anti-Israel political activism , is suing Zionist political commentator Douglas Murray for defamation , a Thursday report from The Jewish Chronicle revealed . <p> The cause for Hijab 's lawsuit is a column piece penned by Murray over two years ago in the British magazine The Spectator , which is also being sued by Hijab . <p> Murray is an associate editor of the magazine , according to their website , and his column accused Hijab of " whipping up a mob on the streets of London " and making discriminatory remarks on Hindu people , quoting Hijab saying that they are " ridiculous people , not least because of their belief in reincarnation " and that they " must live in fear because they have been reincarnated as such pathetic , weak cowardly people . " Hijab 's lawyers argued that Murray 's comments were incorrect , saying that the influencer was referring to Hindutva , an " extremist Hindu supremacist ideology " and not Hinduism as a whole , the Chronicle reported . <p> Hijab 's statements were made during the Leicester unrest two years ago when there were heightened tensions between Muslims and Hindus in the United Kingdom , including protests and riots . <h> Murray 's comments caused distress , humiliation , lawyers claim <p> Of Murray 's entire column , only two paragraphs mention Hijab directly , yet he says that the allegations that piece makes against him have " damaged his reputation " and caused him " to suffer distress , humiliation , embarrassment , hurt and injury to his feelings , " the Chronicle report notes , while also citing his lawyers alleging the Muslim influencer lost income as a result of the allegations . Muslim public speaker Mohammed Hijab in 2022. ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> Murray 's lawyers , in response , argue that Hijab 's reputation is scrutinized already as a political figure who engages in public debates , the report added . <p> His lawyers also highlighted Hijab standing with a billboard in 2021 containing images of the Holocaust interspersed with photographs from the Israel-Gaza conflict of that year and asked specifically Jewish passers-by their opinions on Israel during Shabbat.
