<h> IDF troops reach Damascus ' doorstep , uncover Syrian military weakness <p> The Northern Command Commander visited the forces of the 474th Special Operations Group in Syria during their mission in front defense in the area ( photo credit : IDF ) <p> The 603rd Battalion of the IDF 's Combat Engineering Corps has reached Tel Hadar , the deepest point in Syria that Israeli forces have entered -- 10 kilometers from the Israeli border and just over 20 kilometers from Damascus . <p> " We left Al-Hiam last Wednesday for a weekend break . On Saturday , I received calls , and by Saturday night , the entire company had assembled in the Golan Heights . By Sunday , we were on Syrian soil , " recounted Captain Uri Almog , company commander in the 603rd Battalion . <p> " Our soldiers understand the importance of this mission and were excited -- it 's not something to take for granted . We advanced to capture Tel Hadar under the Commando Brigade , but the first vehicle to set foot on the hill was from Brigade 7 . This is the furthest the IDF has entered Syria . The last time was October 12 , 1973 , when Golani forces captured this mountain , " Almog explained . <h> Historic deployment <p> The IDF has historically trained extensively for operations involving Syrian army outposts , nicknamed " Syrian Pitas " for their fortified structure . However , in recent years , the IDF focused on threats from Lebanon and Gaza , not expecting to maneuver in Syrian territory.IDF SOLDIERS are on an armored personnel carrier , as one of them prays the morning service , along the ceasefire line between Israel and Syria , this week . ( credit : Miro Maman/Reuters ) <p> " We were n't trained for Syrian scenarios ; we learned about Hezbollah and Hamas . Now , even with no enemy present , the terrain itself poses challenges . We grew up hearing stories about complex obstacles , but they were n't as difficult as expected . Our bulldozers can handle everything . It 's clear their defenses were n't well-maintained in our sector , " said Almog . <h> Uncovering weapons <p> The IDF uncovered various weapons and equipment left by Syrian forces , much of which was in poor condition . Soldiers found three Syrian tanks that appeared neglected : " They 're rusty and unmaintained . I doubt they could breach Israel 's defenses , " Almog said . <p> Despite this , the Syrian outposts were surprisingly tidy : " The base was clean , with proper signage and trash bins . While their soldiers did n't perform well , their maintenance teams did . We found old night-vision equipment , but it did n't work despite trying all the batteries we had . Observation logs were also discovered . " <p> The soldiers are gearing up for harsh winter conditions . " It 's very cold , but the army provides everything we need . No soldier is left shivering . We make sure to stay hydrated , even though the cold suppresses thirst , " Almog said . <p> The troops also reported encounters with local civilians . " A Syrian civilian signaled that he was hungry , so I gave him a combat ration . There was no hostility at any point , " Almog explained.Captain Almog 's parents , who live in Givat Avni , expressed concern for his safety . " My mother is very worried , and so is my father , although he does n't show it . They were most concerned when I was in Lebanon , but this time they understand the IDF is strong , and everything is secure , " Almog concluded .
