<h> My Word : A trip of remembrance and resilience <h> " You ca n't unsee the sights , " a reporter friend had warned me . <p> BEN SHIMONI 'S car , in which he carried out rescue missions until he was murdered on October 7 , stands at the Tekuma memorial site. ( photo credit : LIAT COLLINS ) <p> I made a trip to southern Israel last week -- " The Trip " -- a journey laden with emotional baggage . For the past 14 months , I had avoided visiting the area where the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas invasion and mega-atrocity took place . " You ca n't unsee the sights , " a reporter friend had warned me . <p> Enough time had elapsed before last week 's tour , organized by the Journalists Association of Jerusalem , for me to consider a closer look at what happened on the most terrible day in Israeli history . <p> In addition , last month , I reviewed for The Jerusalem Report the extraordinary book by photojournalist Ziv Koren , The October 7 War . I had a better understanding of the need to record and document the events -- the horrors and the heroism -- as the narrative is already being hijacked . <p> Tour guide Ronit Liron presented facts , the history of the area , the events of October 7 , and what had preceded them . This was not about politics and blame ; it was about trying to understand the scope of the terrorists ' savagery , hearing about some of the hidden heroes of the day , and learning about the strategic importance of the Western Negev -- to give " the Gaza border communities " its proper name . <p> That our first stop was just two hours ' travel time from Jerusalem was sobering . Hamas , Palestinian Islamic Jihad , and other terrorists had penetrated far into the country in what they called the Al-Aqsa Flood , ravaging communities on the way . Israelis visit the site of the Nova music festival massacre in southern Israel , during the the Jewish holiday of Simchat Torah , October 24 , 2024. ( credit : OREN BEN HAKOON/FLASH90 ) <p> The first point on our itinerary delivered a punch in the gut . At Tekuma , the remains of some 1,500 vehicles , most of them scorched , are piled up in a steel mountain range . Each one , a testimony to lives lost or destroyed.As we entered the solemn site , one of the first things we saw was the burnt-out shell of an ambulance where some 20 people had been murdered as they sought safety . <p> I felt as if I was walking on hallowed ground and had an urge to place a pebble at the central memorial and say Kaddish , the mourner 's prayer . Liron noted how ZAKA ( identification , extraction , and rescue ) teams had carefully checked the inside of every vehicle for blood and human remains before they were taken to the site . <p> Many of the cars belonged to revelers at the Supernova music festival ; others came from kibbutzim or towns , or were caught on the roads in the attack . The terrorists had deliberately aimed their guns and RPGs at the vehicles ' gas tanks and motors . <p> As we stood by the wrecked remains of the car of Ben Shimoni , his father , Rafi , came over to tell his son 's story . Ben , easy-going and vivacious , had been born 31 years ago in Dugit , a Jewish fishing village in Gaza abandoned during the 2005 Israeli withdrawal . Rafi can be found at Tekuma most days , working on commemorative projects and talking about Ben . <p> Ben was one of the citizens posthumously awarded by the president for his heroism on that dark day . Instead of saving himself , he returned again and again to rescue as many people as he could from the rave until ultimately the terrorists caught up with him . <p> Of the three people with him in the car on that final journey , one other was killed outright ; one was badly wounded and abducted to Gaza , now presumed dead ; while Romy Gonen , a beautiful young woman , remains in Hamas captivity . <h> Kibbutz Be'eri <p> THE NEXT stop was Kibbutz Be'eri , where we met resident and former Eshkol Regional Council head Avraham Dvori , known to all as Menscher . Menscher 's entire family , children and grandchildren , had been abroad celebrating an anniversary on October 7 , but their homes were destroyed by the 340 terrorist invaders or in the tank battles to regain control of the kibbutz . <p> Menscher explained that the outward appearance of the buildings does not necessarily reflect the fate of the residents . Some homes were destroyed but people managed to escape ; others seem intact but the people who lived there were tortured , murdered , or abducted . <p> We passed by rows of shelled remains of homes . Posters on the outside reflect who was killed and who was taken hostage . There are many names with which we have become familiar , such as Vivian Silver and Itay Svirsky , whose body was retrieved from Gaza the day before our visit . Menscher noted that the kibbutz is a traditional cooperative based on humane values ; many of those killed or abducted had been active in coexistence projects and aiding Palestinians . <p> The booms of IDF fire in Gaza could occasionally be heard . It is painful to be in a kibbutz where there are few birds chirping and no children 's voices to be heard . But in the neglected gardens , some citrus trees bear fruit . A well-fed cat sought our affection . <p> There are signs of life and rejuvenation . Menscher said he is confident that many of the residents will eventually return and rebuild the community . But the kibbutz can never recover while there are members still held hostage , he said . <p> He took us to a memorial hall established in the auditorium where , just the evening before October 7 , the kibbutz had celebrated its 77th anniversary . Be'eri lost 101 out of its 600 members in what Menscher referred to as Ha'irua -- " The Event . " <p> It 's hard to find the right word for the savagery of that day . What word describes an 85-year-old grandmother hacked to death in her home ? Or entire families bound and burned to death ? The hall has personalized memorials for the kibbutz members , telling their individual stories and featuring favorite items -- a surfboard , motorbike helmet , chess set , and -- chillingly -- children 's toys . The youngest victim was just one year old . <h> Nova Music Festival <p> FROM BE'ERI , we traveled to the site of the Supernova music festival at Re'im , where more than 360 were killed . The Supernova site has developed over the past year . Posts display photos of smiling young faces and stories of the victims . They are decorated with items like scarves of favorite football teams -- I notice rival teams on adjacent posts . <p> I stopped to read the story of a Bedouin policeman killed during rescue efforts . Everywhere there are the ceramic red anemones -- the flower that symbolized the region in peacetime and has come to symbolize the victims of October 7 , when , all together , some 1,200 were murdered and 250 abducted . <p> Our journey also took us to the spot outside the library in Sderot , where terrorists mowed down 15 pensioners from Ofakim on an outing to the Dead Sea after their bus had a flat tire . We also stopped at " Aner 's migunit , " where 27 people crammed into the tiny roadside shelter seeking safety during the rocket attacks after fleeing from the Supernova festival . Only seven survived . <p> It was here that 22-year-old unarmed soldier Aner Shapira courageously threw back at the terrorists seven grenades that had been tossed into the confined space . The eighth grenade exploded in his hands and killed him . His friend Hersh Goldberg-Polin , badly wounded , was dragged away by terrorists . He was executed by Hamas in a terror tunnel in September , along with five other hostages . <p> Several of the journalists with me knew Ayelet Arnin , a young editor at the KAN public broadcasting company , who was among the victims in the shelter . The walls are covered with commemorative stickers and slogans , while memorial candles have been lit on the floor . <p> The sense of fear seems to be trapped inside the cement walls . On a hilltop observation point in Sderot -- which serves as a memorial to four soldiers killed in a Hamas ambush during Operation Protective Edge in 2014 -- we looked out toward Gaza , where smoke can be seen rising from Jabalya . Did it give me joy ? No . But I 'd rather see smoke where the terror tunnels are being destroyed than charred homes in Israel in the future . <p> Sderot has erected an impressive 18-column memorial on the grounds of the former police station . The police station , overrun by terrorists , was completely destroyed on October 7 . At least 50 civilians and 20 police officers were killed in the town ; their names and stories are recorded at the site . A group of young girls sat nearby singing Hebrew songs . Remarkably , the city has not only returned to life but is growing -- more than 1,000 new residents have moved in over the last year . <p> When I set out , I had been wary of a voyeuristic tour , but I returned with fresh insights and the biblical commandment Zachor -- " Remember " -- echoing in my head . While memorials serve as silent witnesses , it is the duty of the living to speak out .
