<p> A Palestinian flag flutters in the wind during a pro-Palestinian encampment , advocating for financial disclosure and divestment from all companies tied to Israel and calling for a permanent cease-fire in Gaza , inside Columbia University Campus on Sunday , April 28 , 2024 , in New York AP Photo/Andres Kudacki <p> It was n't as if universities in the US had been tolerant of mass protests in the past . Universities called the cops on their students back in the 1960 's and 1970 's when they staged sit-ins for civil rights or protested against America 's war in Vietnam as well . In May 1970 , the US National Guard killed four student protesters and wounded nine others at Kent State University in Ohio . That same month , two students were also killed and 12 others wounded by local law enforcement at Jackson State University in Mississippi . <p> Advertisement <p> It has always been in the nature of universities in the US -- with their top-down approaches to running campuses -- to do everything they can to suppress civil disobedience in any form , to punish students for even attempting to organise protests . With the widespread strong-armed responses to the anti-genocide protests this spring and the broad revisions to regulation at almost every campus aimed at squashing any potential renewal of such protests this fall , however , one thing is clear . Today , the American university -- just like the American nation-state -- is once again at peak repression . It has transformed fully into a corporate-like entity that view silencing dissent and maintaining order and obedience as part of its mission statement . <p> At Towson University , for example , the punishment for the handful of students who did a " die-in " in November 2023 to draw attention to Israel 's genocide in Gaza included requiring them to write essays explaining how they mobilised student protests . Illinois state 's attorney Julia Rietz , at the behest of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign , is still considering filing felony " mob action charges " against four students for building a pro-Palestinian encampment on campus . Many others have required students to complete mandatory modules about the First Amendment rights to freedom of speech , expression , and assembly , which include explanations on various limits universities can legally impose on each . Other institutions now require students to register themselves as an organised group and seek prior approval for where , when , and how they can protest . <p> Advertisement <p> The overall result has been far fewer protests in the fall of 2024 than there were back in the spring . It 's as if higher education leaders and university donors do not understand that the purpose of protest -- and really , any organised attempt at civil disobedience -- is to disrupt . Disruption ensures those in power can not turn their heads away from the issues protesters amplify , like with Israel 's ongoing genocide in Palestine and America 's complicity in it . <p> It seems as if universities only want weak protests , the kind that will not force them to change how they operate or how they invest their endowments -- protests with no teeth at all . <p> I have experienced this first hand , many decades before the beginning of the genocide in Gaza that laid bare the oppressive nature of the American university in the past year . As an undergraduate at the University of Pittsburgh , I was a member of the Black Action Society ( BAS ) . After years of meetings , flyers , and petitions demanding that the university divest from the apartheid regime in South Africa , Pitt 's administration agreed to allow BAS to march around the campus . By then it was my senior year , the fall of 1990 , and our little march was too little too late . South Africa was already on the path toward a post-apartheid future by the time Pitt 's administration acquiesced . <p> Our university-approved protest was in stark contrast with the anti-apartheid protests that hit New York in 1985 , as part of which a coalition of student groups blockaded Hamilton Hall ( now Mandela Hall ) at Columbia University for three weeks . These unauthorised protests eventually forced Columbia to divest from its financial holdings in South Africa . <p> Advertisement <p> Universities approve protest action only when they know it is unlikely to make much difference . And polite protests seldom achieve anything other than uneasy complacency . <p> This year , besides students who missed out on graduation , an untold number of faculty and staff have seen themselves out of jobs or outright fired over their participation in pro-Palestine protests . Most of them , though , are not like former Muhlenberg College professor Maura Finkelstein , so far the only tenured faculty member fired because of her anti-genocide speech . Colleges have sacked a considerable number of anti-genocide contingent and adjunct faculty , who were already vulnerable due to their " short-time contract labour " status . Many more contingent faculty who have spoken out about Palestine , however , have simply been put " under investigation , " and their contracts quietly allowed to expire without renewals . As Anita Levy , senior program officer with the American Association of University Professors ( AAUP ) said during an interview with The Intercept earlier this year , " the bulk of our inquiries , even our cases , have to do with violations of due process " for contingent faculty . <p> I may be one of these contingent academics whose contract was not renewed and employment ended without any due process . A month after publishing my Al Jazeera article " The American centre 's embrace of the far right fuels Israel 's war machine " in October 2023 , my history department chair at Loyola University Maryland gave me unofficial word that my contract would not be renewed . I reached out to Loyola through AAUP for more details in June 2024 , but they refused to provide any explanation . I will likely never be sure what role my anti-genocidal stance against Israel played in my non-renewal compared to other politics internal to my department and my university . But the timing of my unofficial notification of my contract 's non-renewal is quite curious . <p> Advertisement <p> Last March , anti-genocide students slapped a Palestinian flag sticker on my office hours sign . My department wanted to know if I wanted this sign taken down , calling it " an act of vandalism " . I said , " No , it 's perfectly fine . Students should be able to express themselves . Who am I not to support them ? " None of my colleagues stopped by my office for the remainder of the spring semester , except to ask about my departure date so that they could move a new faculty member into my office . <p> That I am not alone in what some have called " the new McCarthyism " at US universities is cold comfort . It is not lost on me that a disproportionate number of the encampments , protests , arrests , suspensions , and non-renewals that took place and are in the public record occurred at elite public and private universities . The crackdown over the past year has had a chilling effect in quashing protests at predominantly white universities attended by America 's educational and socioeconomic elites . For the rest of academia , the academic freedom and the liberal arts aspect of a college education is on life support . The sheer amount of pressure coming from centre-right and far-right politicians , state legislatures , and the US Congress -- not to mention university donors and boards -- has put even the most well-meaning university administration in a repressive role . <p> All US universities -- whatever their size , influence and economic power , want an unpolitical and uncritical faculty and student body , that would not cause trouble , scare donors or hinder their day-to-day comfort . They hope for a campus community that remains as quiet and docile as church mice after drinking communion wine . <p> Whether this is a new era of McCarthyism remains to be seen . In light of the past year of protest , though , maybe one 's right to say something about an injustice and to express it in art and in protest with other like-minded individuals should be a serious criterion when students consider what college they would like to attend . If anyone were to rank universities by their willingness to embrace protests , I suspect nearly all higher education institutions would flunk this measure . The blanket attempt to shut down and shut up students and faculty will likely backfire , perhaps even leading to violent protests and a disproportionately deadly and violent response . But whatever this era is , the idea that the US university is a place of critical thinking , social justice , liberal arts , and making the world a better place is as false as the day is long . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
