<h> Signees said , they urged an end to the repeated " demeaning of women , the use of hateful language against those who hold different views , and the persistent coarsening of our political culture . " <p> Reform Jews in a prayer service for Israel at a Los Gatos CA temple. ( photo credit : EMMA STEINBERG ) <p> More than 5,000 members of the Reform Jewish Movement and its allies penned a letter to President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday urging him to return to the Oval Office with " integrity and compassion , working to heal the division in our nation and uphold the rights and dignity of all Americans . " <p> In a statement , Rabbi Jonah Pesner , Director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism , said the letter represents a heartfelt call to action rooted in Jewish values and democratic principles . <p> " As an American and a Reform Jew , I am committed to the protection of the orphan , the widow , and the stranger , " the letter said . " I will support any serious effort by your administration to combat antisemitism , and I will champion a strong US-Israel relationship that fosters democracy in and security for the Jewish state and demands the rights , well-being , and national aspirations of Palestinian civilians in Gaza and the West Bank are upheld . " <p> The letter continued , " I will join in fierce opposition to any further efforts to eviscerate reproductive rights , to target the safety and rights of the LGBTQ+ community , to harm communities of Color , or to undermine the health of our air , water , and land . " <h> Defending the vulnerable <p> The signees said they will join in defense of the security of immigrants and the right to claim asylum and will " vehemently oppose the weaponization of political power against individuals and institutions that are core to our democracy , including the courts and the press . " Republican presidential nominee , former U.S. President Donald Trump takes the stage during a campaign rally at the J.S. Dorton Arena , Raleigh , North Carolina , Nov. 4 , 2024. ( credit : CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES ) <p> And above all , the signees said , they urged an end to the repeated " demeaning of women , the use of hateful language against those who hold different views , and the persistent coarsening of our political culture . " <p> " We are all made more whole when we treat others with the respect every human being deserves , " according to the letter . " Please , help heal the wounds our nation bears and govern as a president for all Americans . "
