<h> Most of the residents are descended from Arabs who fled Beit Jibrin in 1948 . Today , it is also home to wanted suspects who have engaged in terrorism or who may be active in threats against Israel . <p> IDF SOLDIERS PREPARE to search a building for a terror suspect during a raid in Bethlehem , December 3 , 2024. ( photo credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <p> There 's a narrow street near a mosque . The green light of the minaret is shining above us , but otherwise the sky is dark . It 's around 2:50 a.m . On the mosque , there is a white sign with black letters that reads " Salah Elddeen Mosque , " and in Arabic it says it was built in 1977 . <p> On the road near the mosque are a dozen IDF soldiers walking briskly in the cold night air . It 's around nine degrees in the Aza neighborhood of Bethlehem . <p> This neighborhood was built on a refugee camp established here in 1950 . Most of the 2,000 residents are descended from Arabs who fled Beit Jibrin in 1948 . Today , it is also home to wanted suspects who have engaged in terrorism or who may be active in threats against Israel . <p> I went to this neighborhood on an all-night raid with the IDF 's Etzion Brigade , based in Gush Etzion , which is responsible for this sector . Today , the brigade includes forces from several IDF units . We had soldiers from the Tavor Battalion of the Search and Rescue Brigade and reservists from the 8208 Infantry Reserve Battalion . <p> Prior to the raid , the soldiers had briefings about their target , and before the operation commenced I spoke to several officers . One described how soldiers in this area frequently carry out raids and sweeps of areas such as Bethlehem or neighboring villages . They eliminate terrorists , search for weapons , and conduct arrests . For instance , the units went into the Dehaishe camp in Bethlehem in November . IDF soldiers are seen standing guard on the lookout for suspects in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <p> The refugee camps in Bethlehem are the historic hearts of activism . This is where groups such as Hamas or the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine recruit young activists , who then become hardened terrorists . <p> And it 's not just Hamas and the PFLP ; many Fatah activists grew up in these camps and were once involved in fighting Israel in the 1980s or 1990s and later became officials in the Palestinian Authority . <p> The Palestinian movement is rooted in these camps , and conducting raids into them is necessary to keep terrorists in check . That is the way the IDF seems to see its mission these days in this area . <p> The officers say they have n't seen an increase in terror lately , but throughout the West Bank the military 's tempo of operations has generally increased since Oct. 7 . <p> In the northern West Bank , the clashes are more severe . The enemy in Jenin and Tulkarm has a large number of smuggled rifles . The IDF is also finding munitions and weapons in Bethlehem and the surrounding villages . <p> " If we did n't operate every night , then we 'd have a problem , " says one officer . The raids are conducted with regular soldiers and reservists , as well as members of the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) . An IDF soldier is seen standing guard in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <h> Night raid <p> For the deputy commander of one of the companies , a female combat soldier named R , this is an important mission . " We are doing this a couple of times a week , and usually it goes the same way , " she says . <p> Tonight , we will be going into a dense urban area with multi-story buildings , so it 's different than raiding a house in a village . Before the operation , the officers receive information on the site , such as how many families are expected to be in the building and the history of threats and terror in this area . The forces know they could expect to confront improvised explosive devices or Molotov cocktails thrown at their vehicles . <p> R says that it 's crucial for her troops to go in with a flexible mindset . They might not find the suspect at first ; they might have to go door to door . <p> I got to this unit 's base around midnight , and slowly the officers emerged from a room where they had been briefed on tonight 's mission . Soldiers begin to arrive . Most of this company of soldiers of the Tavor Battalion are women . There are also some men with us , including the driver of the Panther armored vehicle we pack into . <p> It takes time to organize everyone . The commander , R , forms her troops into a circle . She says that tonight , there will be many forces operating in Bethlehem . She discusses what to do if soldiers are wounded or if we confront rioters who throw Molotov cocktails . There are many threats where we are going ; she expects the soldiers to be alert and on their toes . IDF soldiers are seen detaining a suspect during a night raid in Bethlehem , on December 3 , 2024. ( credit : SETH J. FRANTZMAN ) <h> On the move <p> By 1 a.m. , the convoy of vehicles begins to move . There are half a dozen lightly armored vehicles in this group . We drive out of Gush Etzion on the road that snakes around back toward Jerusalem , eventually arriving in Bethlehem from the north . <p> There 's no one on the streets . It feels quiet and deserted . Bethlehem would usually be preparing for Christmas this time of year . However , due to the ongoing war in Gaza , the city has toned down its Christmas decorations , and there 's no festive spirit here . Tourists are gone and the cheer has turned somber . <p> Inside the vehicle , it 's relatively warm . We sit on a row of chairs facing each other . The soldiers have their helmets on and wait quietly with their rifles . They had been speaking in low whispers before , but now they are serious and ready . No one discusses the mission , and I feel a bit in the dark regarding what to expect . The vehicle has small windows with grates on the outside , so it 's hard to see where we are . <p> The convoy of vehicles stops on a main road that leads into Hebron . There is a large hotel here called the Heritage Hotel . There is also a bank and several small shops that advertise food and coffee . Everything is closed . We exit the vehicles quickly and move along the side of the road into an alley . <p> The alley has graffiti of PLO leader Yasser Arafat , Hamas founder Sheikh Ahmed Yassin , and recently assassinated Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah . Yassin was also eliminated in an IDF airstrike in 2004 . These are the heroes of this area of Aza camp . The house we arrive at has a symbol of the PFLP spray-painted on it . <p> The soldiers bang loudly on a door . No one answers . They try to break down a gate that leads to an internal courtyard of a building . A staircase leads to a small apartment on the outside of the building , and the soldiers bang on this door as well . Finally , a middle-aged man emerges . <p> He goes downstairs and seems to direct the soldiers to return to the gate they were trying to open . They try to use an electric saw to break down the gate . Eventually , someone comes and opens it , and we fan out into the courtyard . <p> Soldiers go up the stairs and secure the area , coming to an apartment on the fourth floor . Outside the door , the residents had put up license plates from Florida and Ohio . The family may have visited these places in the past . <p> Inside the home , the soldiers say they are looking for a certain suspect . The house is small , and there is what looks like a plastic Christmas tree that must have been from last year ; it does n't look new . A giant stuffed panda bear sits in front of it , wearing a shirt that says " You . " <p> After 10 minutes the soldiers exit the home , leaving a note telling the suspect to appear at some location . He 's out for the night . It 's time to try to find other wanted men . We go down the way we came and outside the gate that now has a cut at the bottom from the saw . <p> This is a relatively low-tech raid ; the soldiers do n't have special riot gear . There 's just a dozen of us , and the soldiers all carry M-16s . Everyone tries to avoid areas where rocks might be thrown from above , hugging the walls as we maneuver in and around alleyways . <p> THE SECOND location to be searched appears to be adjacent to a new hotel called the Regina . <p> The soldiers go in , and some of us wait outside . Minutes go by , and it seems to be a while before a suspect is taken out , his hands tied with plastic zip-ties . Once he is taken back to the Panther vehicle we came in , we return to the same neighborhood . <p> This time , an alleyway leads to a fancy large metal door . The door stands in contrast to the relative poverty of this area . Once again , several soldiers disappear down an alley to search for a suspect in a home . There is banging on doors and some shouting . <p> No one in the neighborhood comes out to see what is going on . They must be used to these kinds of raids . They likely know that a confrontation with the forces wo n't help them . <p> At some point , a suspect is brought out , and he sits on the ground next to us . He looks to be in his 30s and has a dark beard . Another suspect is taken out , and now there are two . One is coughing , and the other is shivering slightly from the cold . They are wearing sweatpants and sweatshirts . No one speaks . <p> Eventually , though , as time goes by , the soldiers whisper to one another . Each soldier is watching one alleyway for any movement . Nothing happens . A dog barks in the distance , and finally the forces all gather again and go back down the alley we came from . <p> It 's a bit of a warren of streets here , but we spill out onto the main road , where the Panther vehicle and the rest of the IDF jeeps are waiting . Now there are three suspects detained in the vehicle we came in . <p> IT 'S TIME to find another one . <p> We walk down the street , and then around a corner and up a hill . There is a monument on one side of the street with a mural with Palestinian flags . Opposite the mural is the mosque named for Salah Elddeen . This is one way to spell the name of the Muslim leader who fought the Crusaders . <p> Perhaps they feel the name of this mosque is a way to signal that a modern Muslim leader will come and fight Israel . If the residents here think so , tonight there is no such leader . <p> The raid near the mosque is as complex as the original search . We go into one narrow alleyway , balconies of houses above us obscuring the sky , making it feel like a tunnel . The soldiers bang on a door and speak to a man who eventually opens it . The suspect is n't here , but he lives around the back of the building . <p> We leave the tunnel , go back to the road where the mosque is , and take a left . This takes us by a shop that repairs cars and into another alley where there is an orange light that seems to be providing succor for a plant . I look closer . Is it a marijuana plant ? Are they doing some kind of hydroponics up here ? It does n't seem to be , but it 's unclear what they are growing . <p> There 's no more time for agricultural inspection because the forces have moved on now up the alley , around some stairs , and to an old metal gate framed with stones . It looks like the entrance to a secret garden . It takes two soldiers to break down the gate by kicking it . <p> Inside the small courtyard , I 'm struck by the fact that everything has been painted blue . A mural on the wall shows a hand going through barbed wire and disintegrating . It 's haunting . What 's the message here ? Is this a kindergarten or some kind of social club during the day ? <p> The soldiers go to the house at the end of the blue courtyard , and a young man emerges . He speaks English and complains that the man they seek is " too young to be in trouble . " The soldiers ignore his protests and go to another door , where they eventually enter an apartment and find the suspect . <p> This man seems to be in his late teens , and he is clad in a large khaki coat . Unlike the men with beards detained earlier , this young man seems like he does n't fit the mold of a terror suspect . <p> He does n't say anything , but the other man continues to protest until the soldiers shout at him , and he goes home . It 's unclear what the men 's relationship is , but they seem to be family . <p> As we leave , the soldiers express concern that residents here might throw stones at them . There is some shouting from one of the adjacent buildings . We leave quickly and add this latest suspect to the collection . The soldiers refer to the suspects as " Johnny , " such that we have now acquired " another Johnny . " <h> Final raid <p> The last raid of the night takes place in the Aida camp . It 's another built-up area densely packed with residences . Here , too , the walls are covered with graffiti . This one includes a small swastika . <p> We come to a multi-story building and wake up one family . A man leads the soldiers to the third floor . A woman watches us from behind opaque glass , her red shirt visible in a kind of fog . The suspect is n't home . <p> This is the end of the raid . We head back to the vehicles now with four suspects who have taken up the seats where I was sitting at the beginning of the raid . The soldiers have blindfolded the men . A short drive takes us to an area with numerous other IDF vehicles , all idling at night , corralled , and waiting for suspects to arrive . <p> We drop off the four men . One of them drops his ID , and the soldiers pick it up . Then we pile back into the Panther vehicle and begin the long drive back to the base . <h> A calm operation <p> One commander I spoke to characterizes this as " cutting the grass , " a term we 've heard over the years for how the IDF manages the ongoing conflict in the West Bank . The soldiers are operating here 24/7 , the officer says . They secure Highway 60 , which leads from Gush Etzion and Hebron to Jerusalem . Thousands of Jews live in a dozen communities in the area . <p> The IDF says that the forces in this area are responsible for maintaining order in the area and preventing friction and problems between Arabs and Jews . <p> The Etzion Brigade is here to conduct offensive operations . Different units , such as the Search and Rescue Brigade , rotate in and out of this sector . The IDF sees this evening 's raid as a success . <p> " During the operation , the forces made arrests of wanted individuals , interrogated dozens of suspects , and searched and found weapons and incitement materials , " the IDF says . No details about the suspects were provided . <p> For Deputy Company Commander R , this was a calm operation . She says this is usually the case . Operating at night means there are fewer civilians to deal with and fewer chances of clashes . <p> The level of threat can depend on the area being searched , she notes . " We have intelligence of who we are looking for , who is in the house , who is in the family , and if they are violent . " <h> Deputy Commander R <p> R joined the army in 2021 . She is a lone soldier from the eastern United States . She wanted to be a combat soldier . In recent years , she says , the IDF has opened numerous units to women combat soldiers , and she praises the fact that women recently passed tryouts to get into the elite 669 Rescue Unit and Sayeret Matkal . <p> R did n't know what to expect when she joined , but she did n't anticipate it would include the kind of raid we were on . " I did n't expect I 'd be entering people 's houses and taking them from their beds . I thought we 'd be doing more rescues . " This is because the Search and Rescue Brigade is trained for what it sounds like -- search and rescue . <p> R has risen quickly in the ranks . She went through basic training , and the IDF saw her potential for leadership . She went to officers ' school and became a platoon commander . R has been in the Etzion Brigade region for around half a year . Prior to that , she was in training with a company of soldiers . <p> She describes how training as a group helped the soldiers build trust . " It takes time , though , to gain the trust of other soldiers . The most important thing is to be professional and keep soldiers alive . " <p> She has lost friends in this war . " I never thought that would happen . That gives you perspective on what to waste your energy on and what to put it on . I feel I 've matured . Every soldier feels this way currently . Everyone goes through this loss . <p> " And that is what makes the country special . Eighteen-year-olds are n't getting drunk but are doing real things . " <p> I asked about what kinds of threats her unit has faced . She says that each area is distinct . " There are cities like Bethlehem that are known for having guns or smuggling or throwing Molotov cocktails and other types of explosives , and IEDs , which they can plant in places . <p> " Then there are places like the village of Husan , where we operate a lot . It 's known for Molotov cocktails , and the briefings are specific about the threats . One thing that is classic is throwing things from the roof such as blocks . " <p> During the raid , I was struck by how the interaction with the civilians was generally calm . It was tough but calm . Soldiers banged on doors and shouted when they needed to be clear , but there were n't fights with the civilians . <p> " In your training , you get used to keeping a straight face and being serious when it 's time to work . You have to show a level of professionalism , and it comes naturally at a point , " the commander says . <p> She praises the role of women in combat in units like this . <p> " I think it goes to show that women are more than capable of being great combat soldiers , and there are many successes that have come from the leadership of women from our unit . " <p> While 5% of combat soldiers in the IDF are women , most of the fighters in her unit are women . " To see it as such a norm is special , and I am happy to be one of them , " she states . ?
