<h> Share on Social Media <p> France 's " Emilia P ? rez , , " " Germany Germany 's 's " " The The Seed Seed of of the the Sacred Sacred Fig Fig " and Brazil 's " I 'm Still Here " have been named to the shortlist in the Oscars ' Best International Feature Film category , retaining their frontrunner status in a race that had fewer high-profile contenders than usual this year . <p> " Flow " is the only animated film on the list , while " Dahomey " is the only documentary . The Palestinian selection , " From Ground Zero , " is the most unusual of the shortlisted films , consisting of 22 separate short films made over the last year by directors living in Gaza . <p> As usual , the list was heavily European , with 10 of the shortlisted films coming from Europe , two from Asia and one each from North America , South America and Africa . <p> While Palestine and Thailand were in some ways the unlikeliest nominees , the list for the most part stuck to the films that were favored going into the vote . The most notable contenders not to make the shortlist were Mexico 's " Sujo , " Sweden 's " The Last Journey , " Portugal 's " Grand Tour , " Belgium 's " Julie Keeps Quiet " and India 's " Lost Ladies , " which that country 's submission committee chose over the critical favorite " All We Imagine as Light . " <p> Two of the films come from directors who 've had movies nominated for Oscars in the past : The director of " Emilia P ? rez , " Jacques Audiard , also directed " A Prophet , " which was nominated in the category in 2009 , while " I 'm Still Here " director Walter Salles ' " Central Station " was nominated in 1998 . <p> Another of the shortlisted directors , Halfdan Ullmann T ? ndel ( " Armand " ) , is the grandson of Ingmar Bergman , whose films won this award three times ( " The Virgin Spring , " " Through a Glass Darkly " and " Fanny and Alexander " ) , second only to four-time winners Vittorio De Sica and Federico Fellini . <p> This year 's field consisted of 85 films , the fewest to qualify in the category in nine years . <p> The selections were made by volunteers from all branches of the Academy , who were separated into seven groups and assigned 12 or 13 films as required viewing . Voters who watched everything from their group were also free to see and vote for any films from other groups , with the 15 films that scored best using ranked-choice voting advancing to the shortlist . <p> In the past , an executive committee would look at the voters ' choices and add three additional films to the list , a system designed to let more challenging films advance . But with those executive committee " saves " no longer possible , the list of shortlisted films has become fairly predictable , with the highest-profile films almost invariably advancing . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Steve Pond has been writing about film , music , pop culture and the entertainment industry for more than 40 years . He has served as TheWrap 's awards editor and executive editor , awards since joining the company in 2009 . Steve began his career writing about music for the Los Angeles Times , where he remained a contributor for more ...
