<p> Cindy McCain , the executive director of the World Food Programme , said " hunger is at the forefront " of global conflicts worldwide , making it a " national security issue " that requires the help of all countries involved . <p> " We need help from everybody . The world is on fire right now , " McCain said on " Face the Nation with Margaret Brennan , " adding that " hunger is at the forefront of all of this . " <p> McCain outlined that with food insecurity , people do n't " behave well , and things -- they start to migrate . " <p> " Wars begin that way , " she said . " Conflict is a part of all of this . " <p> Among the areas where the World Food Programme is at work is Syria , which has been thrown into a period of uncertainty after the fall of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad last week . McCain said the organization 's deliveries to the area have been " very smooth " so far -- with 70,000 people fed this month -- while noting that they need more delivery options open , and more funds . <p> McCain said the World Food Programme has been able to move goods and food items to where they need to go " in a safe and quick manner " in Syria , noting that she 's hoping that things will " stay calm " so they can continue their work at full scale . But she said the organization is seeing " evidence of great hunger " in the country , while noting that without funding , people will " starve to death . " <p> McCain said the effort could use $17 billion worldwide , saying there are " so many countries that have absolutely no access to any fundings . " <p> " No one 's paying any attention to it , " she added . <p> McCain outlined the " complicated situation " in Sudan , with a slow process to access parts of the country , including places where famine has been declared . And in Gaza , she said conditions are " very close " to famine , noting that only two of the World Food Programme 's trucks were able to get through to the area in November . <p> Amid the access issues , McCain said " we need a ceasefire and we need it now , " adding that as the leader of the largest humanitarian aid agency in the world , she 's calling for a suspension of the hostilities in Gaza and urging her partners in the aid sphere to do the same . <p> " We can no longer sit by and just allow these people to starve to death , " McCain said . " We need help , and we need to make sure that we put political pressure on those that need to have political pressure put on them . "
