<h> Israel to close Dublin embassy , citing ' extreme anti-Israel policies ' <p> Israel will close its Dublin embassy due to the " extreme anti-Israel policies of the Irish government , " Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said on Sunday , citing its recognition of a Palestinian state and support for legal action against Israel . <p> Israel 's ambassador to Dublin was recalled following Ireland 's decision on a Palestinian state in May , Saar 's statement added . Last week , Dublin announced its support for South Africa 's legal action against Israel in the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , accusing Israel of genocide . <p> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris said the decision was deeply regrettable . " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-International law , " he said in a post on X. <p> " Ireland wants a two-state solution and for Israel and Palestine to live in peace and security . Ireland will always speak up for human rights and international law . " <p> Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin said in March that while it was for the World Court to decide whether genocide is being committed , he wanted to be clear that Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack and what is happening in Gaza now " represents the blatant violation of international humanitarian law on a mass scale . " <p> A statement from Israel 's foreign ministry also announced the establishment of an Israeli embassy in Moldova . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> By participating in online discussions you acknowledge that you have agreed to the Terms of Service . An insightful discussion of ideas and viewpoints is encouraged , but comments must be civil and in good taste , with no personal attacks . If your comments are inappropriate , you may be banned from posting . Report comments if you believe they do not follow our guidelines.Having trouble with comments ? Learn more here .
