<p> Dua Lipa 's list of 2024 musical accomplishments is comically long . In this year alone she 's done -- deep breath -- the following : released her third studio album , Radical Optimism ; kicked off her biggest global tour yet ; played a coveted Glastonbury Festival headline slot , the first British woman to do so since 2016 ; filmed a TV special at London 's Royal Albert Hall ; performed onstage with Cher , Elton John and Chris Stapleton ; and made a playful cameo on Charli xcx 's remixed version of brat . <p> " It 's honestly been the best year of my life . I 've done things that I 've wanted to do for so long , " Lipa tells Billboard U.K. with a laugh on a video call . She 's in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , when we speak , where she 's playing two nights at the city 's Axiata Arena . The run of dates in Asia , which has included stops in Tokyo , Singapore , Seoul and Bangkok , is her first in the region in six years . The crowds have been so " loud and fun , " she says , and she 's been " blown away " by their enthusiasm . <p> " There came a point in the year where I was thinking , ' I 've got to sit down and write some new dreams and new plans and other things I wanted to do , ' " she says . " I feel like I ticked so many of my boxes this year . It 's amazing . " <h> Related <p> In May , the British Albanian artist released Radical Optimism ( Warner ) , which peaked at No. 1 on the United Kingdom 's Official Albums Chart upon release and had the biggest opening week by a British female artist since Adele 's 30 in 2021 . The record went to No. 1 throughout mainland Europe in Spain , France , The Netherlands and more , and hit No. 2 on the Billboard 200 , her highest debut on the U.S. charts to date . Lead single " Houdini , " meanwhile , enjoyed a 17-week reign on Billboard 's Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart . <p> The 29-year-old is a fitting entry for Billboard U.K. in Billboard 's inaugural Global No. 1s series celebrating the biggest and most successful artists internationally over the past year . <p> Seven months after the album 's release , Lipa looks back fondly on recording it with the stellar house band that included Tame Impala 's Kevin Parker , hyperpop hero Danny L Harle , superproducer Andrew Wyatt and star songwriter Tobias Jesso Jr. , along with her accomplished previous collaborators Caroline Ailin and Ian Kirkpatrick . Lipa has said it was inspired by Parker 's Tame Impala work and , speaking to Rolling Stone in February , dubbed it a " psychedelic-pop-infused tribute to U.K. rave culture . " A noticeable shimmy away from her disco-infused single " Dance the Night , " which appeared in the 2023 blockbuster Barbie film , Radical Optimism showed flashes of the turn-of-the- ? millennium French touch scene ( " End of an Era " ) and Parker 's signature psych-pop ( " Training Season " ) . <p> Lipa sketched the blueprint for Radical Optimism following the success of her monster second album , 2020 's Future Nostalgia , which later spawned several hits , including " Levitating , " which was named the biggest song of 2021 on Billboard 's year-end Hot 100 chart . The set , which found an enthusiastic worldwide audience with its playful disco sheen during the COVID-19 lockdown , won best pop vocal album at the Grammys in 2021 . <p> " Future Nostalgia doing what it did allowed me to grow as an artist , to push boundaries and change . It allowed me to have the confidence to make Radical Optimism , " Lipa tells Billboard U.K. " It gave me the freedom and confidence to be like , ' You know who I really want to make an album with ? Kevin Parker . And I want to do something a bit different ; I want to work with Danny L Harle and experiment with my sound , do a different vocal performance and make pop music but allow that to live in another sonic world . ' It 's been fun to shape-shift . " <p> In October , the songs received the ultimate stress test with a performance at London 's Royal Albert Hall , where she enlisted the 53-piece Heritage Orchestra , conducted by Ben Foster ; 14 choristers ; and her regular touring band for a bombastic , glitzy night at the capital 's most iconic music venue . She performed Radical Optimism in full , utilizing the brass section to give new heft to songs like " Houdini , " while elegant strings added another dimension to " French Exit " and " These Walls . " The in-the-round performance was captured for a TV special , An Evening With Dua Lipa ( which aired Dec. 8 on ITV in the United Kingdom and will air Dec. 15 on CBS in the United States ) , and a live album , Dua Lipa Live at the Royal Albert Hall ( out now ) . <p> " When we were in rehearsals , there was nothing quite like it : Those orchestral instrumentations just shook me to the core , " Lipa recalls . " Feeling my music in such a way that was so moving , it made me fall in love with music all over again . " <p> During the concert 's encore , John joined Lipa -- the first time they performed live together -- to sing their collaboration , " Cold Heart , " which topped charts globally upon release in 2021 ( in its PNAU remix ) and interpolates multiple John songs . <p> " Obviously Elton is no stranger to the Albert Hall himself and it felt like such a chic and elegant night , so I needed my most chic and fabulous friend to come and join me . He immediately said yes , " she says . " One thing about Elton is that he always shows up for his friends . He 's super loyal ... he 's just always been there , lending his ear and being so supportive . " <p> The defining Dua Lipa performance of 2024 , however , was not in the austere , lavish Albert Hall but in a Somerset field in southwest England . Worthy Farm , where Glastonbury Festival is held , is usually full of dairy cows gently grazing in the lush greenery , but on June 28 , they were replaced with a sea of sequined spectators for Lipa 's headlining slot on the festival 's Pyramid Stage . The impassioned , fun , formidable set ( during which Parker joined Lipa onstage ) aired live on BBC One and globally on the broadcaster 's website . <p> The show marked her second Glastonbury appearance , following a 2017 mid-afternoon performance that attracted one of that weekend 's biggest crowds -- and , following on the heels of her self-titled debut album 's release , helped catalyze her star turn . <p> Returning as a Pyramid Stage headliner ( on Friday , so she could party the rest of the weekend at the festival with her partner , actor Callum Turner , and some pals ) had been on her agenda ever since . " I try not to let these moments pass me by so I made sure that when I was standing up there I took as many mental pictures as I could , " she says . At one point , she headed out toward the crowd and turned to face the stage , focusing on its apex : a shining white tip sending a beam of light into the starry night sky . <p> Prior to the performance , Lipa had switched off her phone to get in the zone . When she got back to her dressing room afterward , she had a deluge of texts . <p> " It was so beautiful . I had so many messages from previous headliners , " she says . " You sort of earn this badge of honor in that moment , and it felt like I joined the coolest club in the world . " One came from Adele , the last female British act before Lipa to top the bill in 2016 . " She said , ' I 've been thinking about you all day and just wanted to wish you luck for tonight . Do n't forget to soak it all in . ' Looking back at that Pyramid was me trying to do that . " <p> Radical Optimism is the first album Lipa has released since striking a deal with TaP Music , her former management and publishing group , to acquire ownership of her songs , music , masters and publishing rights . The move dovetailed with news that Lipa would now be managed by her father , Dukagjin Lipa , and in 2024 , she expanded her nonmusic offerings : Her company Radical22 produced the Disney+ documentary Camden , about the north London borough and its music scene ; she starred in the action-comedy Argylle ; and her Service95 newsletter -- which compiles recommendations for food , literature and more -- grew in stature . No surprise , then , that The Sunday Times featured her on its annual Rich List , estimating a $113 million ( 90 million pounds ) net worth . <p> " This is really me stepping into my role not just as a creator but as a businesswoman , " she says . " It comes with the understanding that as much as I want to stay on the creative side , I have to be knowledgeable about all aspects of my career if I want to have longevity . <p> " I think for every artist that 's really important -- and as much as we might not want to , as the easiest thing is to go into the studio and write the songs and whatever happens , happens -- it just ca n't be that way , " she continues . " Every artist should be educated on that . It 's really important for us to be in control or at least know what 's happening with our careers and not turn a blind eye . " <p> Elsewhere , she 's consistently voiced support of Gaza during the ongoing Israel-Hamas war , and she was also named a champion for the Trevor Project , the suicide prevention charity that supports LGBTQ+ youth . " Anything I can do as a supporter to help out in any way with the platform that I have , I 'm fully willing and open to all of that , " she says . <p> But , despite her many achievements , something noteworthy eluded Lipa on this cycle : Radical Optimism did not receive any nominations for the upcoming Grammys , a surprise given her 10 career nominations in years past ( including a win for best new artist in 2019 ) and the fact that her performance kicked off the 2024 ceremony . <p> " I 'm so proud of Radical Optimism and where it 's brought me . I love that album and I 'm having the time of my life performing it live , and I 've been able to do things that I thought I could only dream of this year , so I 'm really grateful , " she confidently says of the record 's impact on her career . " Although it would have been nice to be recognized by your industry , especially as a woman , I 'm so proud seeing so many incredible female artists nominated at the Grammys this year . " <p> Lipa has particular love for Charli xcx , a longtime pal who received several Grammy nods for brat . She had a cameo on the remix of Charli 's " Talk talk " alongside Troye Sivan , with Lipa speaking in French and Spanish on the track . <p> " I love her so much and she 's always been a really good friend of mine and been so supportive from day one . She deserves all the flowers , " Lipa says of Charli . " She 's worked her arse off , and it 's so beautiful to see her get the recognition she deserves . She 's really stuck to her guns and allowed herself to be creative in her own way , and it 's paid off . That 's the best thing that can ever happen to an artist . She 's so deserving of every moment . " <p> As for where her own career is , " Overall I 'm really happy with where I am , " Lipa says . " I do n't think it really matters in the grand scheme of things where I am , where I want to be and where I 'm going . It does n't change the way I feel about the record at all . " <p> Now , as 2024 comes to a close , Lipa is enjoying some well-earned rest before her biggest tour yet . In March 2025 , her Radical Optimism tour kicks off its next leg in Australia and New Zealand before heading to Europe and the United Kingdom , which includes two sold-out nights at London 's 90,000-capacity Wembley Stadium and Liverpool 's historic Anfield Stadium . Then in September , she 's off to North America with 24 arena dates including a whopping four nights at New York 's Madison Square Garden and another four at L.A. 's Kia Forum . <p> She speaks about manifestation , the idea that she must imagine her biggest goals and achievements for them to become a reality . In fact , Lipa 's use of the word contributed to the Cambridge Dictionary naming " manifest " its word of the year . She remains coy , however , of what 's next on the agenda . " I ca n't really tell you , as they have to be a secret to come true ... " she says . If her past year is anything to go by , we 'll know it when we see it .
