<h> Qatari state-owned network Al Jazeera claimed that Ahmed Bakr al-Lawh worked as a journalist and cameraman for the network and said that he was wearing a press vest and helmet . <p> The Israeli air force struck Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad terrorists who were operating a command center embedded in the offices of the " Civil Defense " organization in Nuseirat in the Gaza Strip , the military said on Sunday . <p> The IDF said the command center was used by terrorists to plan and carry out attacks against soldiers . One of the terrorists eliminated was Ahmed Bakr al-Lawh , who served as a platoon commander in the Islamic Jihad 's Central Camps Brigade , the military noted . <p> In a statement , Hamas said that the Civil Defense director of the Nuseirat refugee camp , Nidal Abu Hajir , and five others were killed in an airstrike . <p> " The targeting by the criminal occupation this evening of a Civil Defense point in the Nuseirat refugee camp , in the central Gaza Strip , which resulted in the death of the camp 's Civil Defense director , Officer Nidal Abu Hajir , and five of his colleagues , represents the fascist occupation army 's insistence on violating all rules and laws by deliberately striking Civil Defense personnel , rescue workers , paramedics , and all groups protected in wars under international law , " the terror group said . <p> Qatari state-owned network Al Jazeera claimed that Ahmed Bakr al-Lawh worked as a journalist and cameraman for the network and said that he was wearing a press vest and helmet . The entrance to the Al Jazeera studios is seen through a cactus garden in Doha November 30 , 2005. ( credit : REUTERS ) <h> Al Jazeera claims al-Lawh was a journalist for the network <p> According to Al Jazeera , al-Lawh had been covering the Israel-Hamas war since 2023 and has been embedded with the Gaza Strip 's Palestinian Civil Defence teams . <p> Al Jazeera did not address the IDF 's announcement stating that al-Lawh was a PIJ terrorist but instead wrote that " the Israeli military said they were looking into the attack . "
