<p> Baltimore-area Jews began marching 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . They meet every Sunday morning at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <h> Hostage walk PHOTOS <h> Share this : <p> Baltimore-area Jews gather outside Har-Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue to pray and read the names of the hostages still in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . Every Sunday morning they march a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . The marches began 48 weeks ago , when the hostage crisis had reached 100 days . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Ayala Kramer holds signs for two Israelis kidnapped by Hamas during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . Baltimore-area Jews began marching on Sunday mornings 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the plight of the hostages still in Gaza . They meet at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to call for their release . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <p> From left , Yael Turkel , Daniella Eyal and Adva Goldberg join other Baltimore-area Jews on a Sunday morning march to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . The weekly marches began 48 weeks ago . They meet at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Yitzchak Raphaeli , 83 , joins other Baltimore-area Jews who march on Sunday mornings to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre by Hamas . His grand-niece 's son , Ohad Yahalomi , 49 , who was shot in the leg trying to protect his family on Oct. 7 at Kibbutz Nir Oz , was kidnapped with his son . The 12-year old son was later released , but the family has no word on the father . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Yitzchak Raphaeli , 83 , joins other Baltimore-area Jews who march on Sunday mornings to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre by Hamas . His grand-niece 's son , Ohad Yahalomi , 49 , who was shot in the leg trying to protect his family on Oct. 7 at Kibbutz Nir Oz , was kidnapped with his son . The 12-year old son was later released , but the family has no word on the father . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) <p> Baltimore-area Jews began marching 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . They meet every Sunday morning at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue , and walk a roughly two-mile route to publicize the ongoing crisis . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Michael Goldberg stands on Park Heights Avenue to keep traffic from getting close to the Baltimore-area Jews gathered outside Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom to recite the names of the hostages kidnapped by Hamas , before marching about two miles to publicize their plight . The weekly marches began 48 weeks ago to draw attention to the ongoing hostage crisis in Gaza following the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . ( Amy Davis/Staff ) Baltimore-area Jews march along Reisterstown Road in Pikesville to draw attention to the plight of the hostages in Gaza who were kidnapped during the Oct. 7 massacre in Israel . This is the 48th week that they have marched to demand the release of the hostages . They walk a roughly two-mile circuit , beginning and ending at Har Sinai-Oheb Shalom synagogue . ( Amy Davis/Staff )
