<p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday that he had a " very warm " phone call with US President-elect Donald Trump , during which they spoke about the need for Israel 's victory in its war on Hamas in Gaza and its stance on Syria . <p> In a video statement , Israel 's leader said he discussed a range of issues with Trump during the call on Saturday evening , including Israel 's commitment to preventing Lebanon-based Hezbollah from rearming and Israel 's conflict with Hamas , which has killed nearly 45,000 Palestinians in the besieged Gaza strip . <p> The leaders also spoke of the need to bring home the remaining hostages in Gaza , Netanyahu said . <p> " I discussed all of this again last night with my friend , US President-elect Donald Trump , " Netanyahu said . <p> " It was a very friendly , very warm and very important conversation . We spoke about the need to complete Israel 's victory , and we also spoke at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages . " <p> Hamas and other groups are believed to still be holding 100 hostages in Gaza , including seven Americans . All but four of the hostages were captured during Hamas ' attack on Israel on October 7 , 2023 . <p> Netanyahu said that Israel continues to " work tirelessly to bring our hostages home , both the living and the dead . And I add , the less we talk about it , the better , and so with God 's help , we will succeed . " <p> CNN has reached out to the Trump transition team for comment . <h> ' No interest in confronting ' Syria <p> Regarding Syria , where a rebel coalition overthrew the regime of President Bashar al-Assad last weekend following a lightning advance through the country , Netanyahu said that Israel had " no interest in a conflict " the country , but would adjust its policy according to the " emerging reality on the ground . " <p> His latest comments come after Israeli forces following Assad 's fall took control of a long-standing buffer zone that had separated Israeli and Syrian forces for decades -- a move the rebels now in charge of Syria and some of the country 's neighbors have criticized . <p> Israeli officials have said the measure is temporary and Netanyahu has previously insisted Israel has " no intention " of intervening in Syria 's internal affairs . <p> However , in his statement Sunday , the Israeli leader noted that Syria had " allowed Iran to arm Hezbollah through its territory " and said Israel was committed to preventing the militant group from rearming . <p> " This is an ongoing test for Israel , we must meet it -- and we will meet it . I say to Hezbollah and Iran in no uncertain terms -- to prevent you from harming us , we will continue to act against you as much as necessary , in every arena and at any time , " he said . <p> Israel reached a ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah in November after a 13-month conflict largely fought along Israel 's border with Lebanon which saw Israel kill a string of high-ranking Hezbollah commanders . Continuing tit-for-tat strikes have put strain on the deal . <h> Plan to expand Golan settlements <p> Israel 's control of the buffer zone has added to tensions with Syria over its decades-long presence in the Golan Heights , a strategic plateau in southwestern Syria that Israel has occupied since a war in 1967 . Syria attempted to retake the territory in a surprise attack in 1973 , but failed , and Israel annexed it in 1981 . <p> Since the fall of Assad last week , the Israeli military has also taken control of Mount Hermon , which abuts the Golan Heights and lies within the buffer zone that had previously separated the two sides ' troops . <p> Despite Israel 's insistence the move is temporary , several Arab states have accused Israel of exploiting instability in Syria to execute a land grab , while the rebel coalition now in charge of Syria has accused it of " crossing the lines of engagement . " <p> Adding to those tensions , the Israeli government on Sunday approved a plan by Netanyahu to expand settlements in the occupied Golan Heights , according to a statement from the prime minister 's office . <p> " In light of the war and the new front against Syria , and out of a desire to double the population of the Golan Heights , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today submitted for government approval the first amendment to the plan to encourage demographic growth in the Golan Heights and Katzrin Heights , " the statement said . Katzrin is an Israeli settlement in the Golan . <p> The plan " will assist the Golan Regional Council in absorbing the new residents who will arrive , " the statement added . <p> " Strengthening the Golan Heights is strengthening the state of Israel , and it is especially important at this time . We will continue to hold on to it , make it flourish , and settle it , " Netanyahu said , according to the statement . <p> The occupation is illegal under international law , but the United States recognized Israel 's claim on the Golan during the Trump administration in 2019 . Israel does not view its presence in the Golan as settlements . <p> Saudi Arabia , the UAE and Qatar condemned the plan to expand the Golan settlement . Qatar said it considered the expansion plan a " blatant violation of international law " and a new aggression on Syrian territories ; Saudi Arabia said the move would derail Syria 's chances of restoring security and stability .
