<p> Iran 's Axis of Resistance , an informal coalition of anti-Western and anti-Israeli militias , was already having a terrible year . But the loss of the Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad may have dealt the knockout blow . <p> Syria was both the organizing ground and the proof of concept for the Axis . Assad owed his throne to its armies , which helped him kill hundreds of thousands of civilians in the civil war that began in 2011 . Unlike other members of the Axis , Assad was n't an Islamist . He also had real differences with Hamas ( the only Sunni member of the Axis ) and the Yemeni Houthis . But other than Iran itself , Syria was the only United Nations member-state to be considered part of the Axis , and its territory was crucial . Iran passed supplies through Syria to Hezbollah , in neighboring Lebanon , and used it to gather its multinational , mostly Shiite armies of militants from Afghanistan , Pakistan , Iraq , and elsewhere . <p> The Axis has come under pressure before , but never like this . In 2020 , an American drone killed Qassem Soleimani , the commander of the expeditionary arm of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Axis 's fabled leader . The Iranian regional project suffered a blow then , but a survivable one . In a rousing speech at her father 's funeral in Tehran , Soleimani 's daughter Zeynab promised that three of her honorary " uncles " would exact revenge for her father 's death : the Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah , the Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh , and Assad . Within the past four months , all three of these avengers have been dispatched from the scene -- Haniyah and Nasrallah killed by Israel , and Assad now a refugee in Moscow . <p> With Assad gone , Iran faces a reckoning . Why did it spend tens of billions of dollars and thousands of lives on a regime that collapsed like a house of cards ? Iran 's supreme leader , Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , delivered a defiant speech last Wednesday , insisting that the Axis was alive and well . He chalked up the fall of Assad to an " American-Zionist plot " and said that Tehran would have saved his regime if it could have , a significant admission of his own regime 's weakened capacities . He called on his supporters to " not fall into passivity " and pledged that the " resistance " would yet expel the United States from the region and " uproot Zionism , with the grace of God . " But Khamenei 's bravado is n't fooling anyone . Israel had already battered the Axis , and Syria 's Turkey-backed Sunni Islamists have completed the job . Khamenei is barely able to respond to Israel 's repeated attacks on Gaza , Lebanon , Syria , and even Iran itself . His policy has failed . <p> The end of the Axis is good news . Iranian-backed militias have brought little but misery to the region . They 've undermined the sovereignty of several Arab countries and intensified religious hatred and sectarianism . Iran 's rulers once claimed to offer an exportable Islamist model that could rival both capitalism and communism . But then they went and governed their own country as a corrupt and repressive oligarchy , giving the lie to such pretenses . All that remained to unite the Axis members was the quest to destroy Israel . As a result , instead of building a better life for their constituents , the Axis members made their countries into Iranian beachheads in a shadow conflict with the United States and Israel . <p> Iranian leaders often boasted that they controlled four Arab capitals ( Damascus , Beirut , Sanaa , and Baghdad ) . Last week , the Axis lost Damascus . The others are also slipping from Tehran 's grip . In Beirut , Hezbollah has lost many of its field commanders in its war with Israel , and the Lebanese people are running out of patience with the militia . In Baghdad , Prime Minister Mohammed Shia ' al Sudani 's government enjoys the support of several Iranian-backed militias , but seems not to feel overly constrained by Iranian interests : Iraq did not lift a finger last week to save Assad , and it has maintained close ties with Western allies in the region , such as Jordan , Saudi Arabia , and Egypt . The Houthi-led statelet in Yemen remains profoundly anti-Israel and anti-Semitic , and it continues to threaten international shipping in the Red Sea , but it has always been a local movement with looser ties to Tehran than the other members of the Axis . Finally , recent reports suggest that Hamas has agreed to cede the future administration of Gaza to a committee that would include both it and its rival , Fatah -- a sign that just over a year after its murderous attack on Israel touched off the most recent conflagration , Hamas , too , is on the back foot . <p> But the most important capital to be affected by the fall of the Axis is Tehran . Khamenei 's regional policy was supposed to keep the U.S. and Israel at bay . It appears to have done the opposite . In the past 14 months , Israel has battered the Axis and directly attacked Iranian territory for the first ( and second ) time . Tehran never even answered the Israeli strikes of October 26 , because it knew it had few palatable options for doing so . Its bluff called , Iran is now in a corner . And to make matters worse , next month Donald Trump will return to the White House , likely bringing his policy of " maximum pressure " on Iran back with him . <p> Khamenei 's 35-year rule over Iran has impoverished and isolated his country while making it ever more politically repressive . His hard-line faction is also politically marginalized at the moment , as both the president and the conservative speaker of Parliament have made clear that Iran 's priorities need to be economic development and making a deal with the West . Some believe that the fall of the Axis might persuade Iran to dart toward a nuclear bomb . But decision makers in Tehran know that this would likely incur a ferocious response from the U.S. and Israel , and they may well prefer to take their diplomatic chances on striking a deal with the new American administration . <p> Nobody will miss the Axis of Resistance . But the history of the Middle East has demonstrated that the demise of a bad actor is not sufficient to produce better ones . The Axis will leave a vacuum that other unsavory forces could fill . What the affected countries will need to avoid that outcome is a combination of foreign direct investment and the will to mediate their internal differences . The two are linked : Disputes are much easier to solve when all parties have a reasonable prospect of prosperity . <p> There is a public appetite for this agenda . In 2019 , the peoples of both Iraq and Lebanon rose up in movements with two central demands : to end the sectarian power-sharing system that empowered the Axis militias in these countries , and to build effective public services . The most conspicuous symbols of the two movements were their countries ' national flags . These were anti-Axis uprisings , in which Iraqis and Lebanese sought to prioritize their own countries over the Axis 's plans for revolutionary havoc in the region . <p> Suppose that , following the Axis 's collapse , the region became one of stable , cohesive nation-states that pursued economic development rather than war . The democratic dreams that fueled the 2011 Arab Spring would still remain distant -- but Iran 's revolutionary project for the region would at last come to a definitive end .
