<h> The California Department of Motor Vehicles has apologized for an " unacceptable and disturbing " personalized truck license plate that the agency said displayed hate speech related to the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack on Israel <p> LOS ANGELES ( AP ) -- The California Department of Motor Vehicles has apologized for an " unacceptable and disturbing " personalized truck license plate that the agency said displayed hate speech related to the Oct. 7 attack on Israel . But a relative of the vehicle 's owner said the whole controversy was an unfortunate misunderstanding . <p> A photo posted on X by the watchdog group StopAntisemitism showed a license plate on a Tesla Cybertruck near Los Angeles that read " LOLOCT7 . " LOL is an abbreviation for " laugh out loud . " <p> The group said the plate seemed to reference Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas militants attacked Israel , killing hundreds of people and prompting an Israeli retaliation against Palestinians in Gaza . <p> But the son of the truck 's owner told ABC 7 in Los Angeles that the personalized plate was not a reference to the Oct. 7 attack at all . He said it referred to the owner , who is a Filipino grandfather . " LOLO " means grandfather in Tagalog , " CT " refers to the Cybertruck , while 7 represents the owner 's seven children , according to the news station . <p> The DMV issued a statement Thursday , saying the department is " taking swift action to recall these shocking plates , and we will immediately strengthen our internal review process to ensure such an egregious oversight never happens again . " <p> A spokesperson for the DMV told the Los Angeles Times the license plate should not have passed the review process and , after it was flagged on social media , many people who alerted the department found it offensive . <p> " The use of hateful language is not only a clear violation of our policies but also a violation of our core values to proudly serve the public and ensure safe and welcoming roadways , " the DMV statement said . <p> The DMV said the license plate owner will be notified about the recall of their license plate because of the language . The owner of the vehicle has the right to appeal the department 's decision . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
