<p> I 'm a strong supporter of institutional neutrality at universities . We should n't issue statements about contested political questions , because any " official " position threatens to squash dialogue and dissent . <p> " From time to time instances will arise in which the society , or segments of it , threaten the very mission of the university and its values of free inquiry , " Kalven wrote . " In such a crisis , it becomes the obligation of the university as an institution to oppose such measures and actively to defend its interests and values . " <p> The university has reached such a time , right now . And the threat to our interests and values has a name : Robert F. Kennedy Jr . <p> It is our institutional obligation to speak out against Donald Trump 's nomination of Kennedy as secretary of Health and Human Services . <p> Did a statement fail to call the Hamas attack " terrorism " ? The university got labeled pro-Palestinian , or even antisemitic . But if a statement said Hamas was a terrorist group -- or if it did n't condemn civilian deaths in Gaza -- then the school was supposedly biased towards Israel . <p> I get it . It was unwise for universities to take official positions about the Israel-Palestine situation , for exactly the reasons that Kalven spelled out a half-century ago . When there are reasonable arguments on both sides of an issue , we should n't give our imprimatur to one or the other . <p> That 's why an estimated two dozen universities issued Kalven-like policies in 2024 , pledging institutional neutrality on complex public issues . And good on them . <p> But Kennedy 's medical claims are n't controversies about which informed people disagree ; they are lies . And they directly imperil our institutions , which rest in large part on scientific research and instruction . <p> Perhaps the schools imagined that leaders with medical backgrounds would appear less " political " than , say , someone from the humanities or social sciences . But politics has arrived at their doorstep anyway , in the form of RFK Jr . <p> It 's time for them to step up . Universities should n't issue statements about everything under the sun , that 's for sure . But , just as surely , they need to defend their institutions when they 're under fire . <p> I suspect that they 're afraid to get in the new Trump administration 's crosshairs , so they 're keeping quiet . But silence in the face of existential danger is n't wisdom or prudence . It 's cowardice .
