<h> 2 men , including Natick resident , charged in connection with Iran drone strike that killed US service members <p> BOSTON ( AP ) -- Two men , including a dual Iranian American citizen , have been charged with conspiring to export sensitive technology to Iran that was used in a drone attack in Jordan that killed three American troops early this year and injured dozens of other service members , the Justice Department said Monday . <p> The pair were arrested after FBI specialists who analyzed the drone traced its navigation system to an Iranian company operated by one of the defendants , who relied on parts and technology funneled into the country by his alleged co-conspirator , prosecutors said . <p> " We often cite hypothetical risk when we talk about the dangers of American technology getting into dangerous hands , " U.S. Attorney Joshua Levy , the top federal prosecutor in Massachusetts , said at a news conference announcing the charges . " Unfortunately , in this situation , we are not speculating . " <p> The defendants were identified as Mahdi Mohammad Sadeghi , who prosecutors say works at a Massachusetts-based semiconductor company , and Mohammad Abedininajafabadi , who was arrested Monday in Italy as the Justice Department seeks his extradition to Massachusetts . <p> Prosecutors allege that Abedininajafabadi , who was also called Adedini in court documents , has deep connections to the Iranian government . They say his Tehran-based company manufactures navigation systems for the military drone program of Iran 's paramilitary Revolutionary Guard and that he conspired with Sadeghi to circumvent American export control laws , including through the creation of a front company in Switzerland , and procure sensitive technology into Iran . <p> Sadeghi , a naturalized U.S. citizen , was arrested Monday in Massachusetts and was ordered to remain detained following a court appearance . His lawyer did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment . <p> Both men are charged with export control violations , and Abedini separately faces charges of conspiring to provide material support to Iran . <p> Three Georgia soldiers -- Sgt. William Jerome Rivers of Carrollton , Sgt. Breonna Moffett of Savannah and Sgt. Kennedy Sanders of Waycross -- were killed in the Jan. 28 drone attack on a U.S. outpost in northeastern Jordan called Tower 22 . U.S. officials have blamed it on the Islamic Resistance in Iraq , an umbrella group of Iran-backed militias that includes Kataib Hezbollah . <p> In the attack , the one-way attack drone may have been mistaken for a U.S. drone that was expected to return back to the logistics base about the same time and was not shot down . Instead , it crashed into living quarters , killing the three soldiers and injuring more than 40 . <p> " To the people who were injured by this attack , to the loved ones and family members of the people who lost their lives , as the son of a combat veteran I humbly hope that today 's charges bring some measure of justice and accountability , " Levy said . <p> Tower 22 held about 350 U.S. military personnel at the time . It is strategically located between Jordan and Syria , only 10 kilometers ( 6 miles ) from the Iraqi border , and in the months just after Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack on Israel , and Israel 's blistering response in Gaza , Iranian-backed militias intensified their attacks on U.S. military locations in the region . <p> Following the attack , the U.S. launched a huge counterstrike against 85 sites in Iraq and Syria used by Iran 's Revolutionary Guard and Iranian-backed militia and bolstered Tower 22 's defenses . <p> This is a developing news story ; stay with 7NEWS on-air and online for the latest details . <p> ( Copyright ( c ) 2024 Sunbeam Television . The Associated Press contributed to this report . All Rights Reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. )
