<h> As improved relations quaver , a new guide aims to educate Catholics about antisemitism <h> In the document published last week , the AJC 's " Translate Hate " ongoing glossary -- which has entries on antisemitic terms -- has been appended with Catholic commentaries on 10 of those entries . <p> By BEN SALES/JTA DECEMBER 16 , 2024 19:41 <p> Members of the Palestinian embassy to the Holy See give a keffiyeh , a traditional Palestinian scarf , to Pope Francis during a Christmas ceremony at St Peter 's Square at the Vatican , Dec. 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : Andreas Solaro/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> ( JTA ) -- When the American Jewish Committee began working with US bishops years ago to educate Catholics about antisemitism , they did n't anticipate a global spike in the hatred they were trying to combat . <p> Nor did they know that just weeks before they would ultimately publicize their work , Pope Francis would suggest that Israel is guilty of genocide in Gaza . <p> But when Rabbi Noam Marans and Bishop Joseph Bambera came together last week to launch a glossary of antisemitic terms , annotated by Catholic commentary , that was the context . Marans described the glossary as a " milestone " ahead of the 60th anniversary of the church 's landmark declaration that Jews did not kill Jesus . And he noted that while relations between Catholics and Jews have massively improved from centuries past , they 're facing new stresses . <p> " It 's easy to lose perspective on an event like this , which was surely unimaginable to my grandparents in Bialystok , Poland , " Marans said at the launch event on Wednesday . " This has been a complete transformation in the relationship that has benefitted both communities . " <p> Referring to the Jewish blessing to mark significant occasions , he said , " It 's a shehechiyanu moment . " <h> Translate hate <p> In the document published last week , the AJC 's " Translate Hate " ongoing glossary -- which has around 60 entries on antisemitic terms -- has been appended with Catholic commentaries on 10 of those entries . The commentaries were written by the US Conference of Catholic Bishops ' Committee on Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs , which Bambera chairs . <p> The entries with commentary range from " Blood libel " to " From the river to the sea , " a common chant at pro-Palestinian rallies that the AJC and other Jewish groups say is a call for Israel 's annihilation . <p> For example , in the entry on " Blood libel , " the canard that Jews kill Christian children and use their blood for ritual purposes , the Catholic gloss notes that the church has long rejected the idea , but that it still pops up in some Catholic discourse . <p> " Today , this charge may disguise itself in less traditional forms that must also be disavowed , such as the idea that the Jewish people support abortion as a means of ritualistic child sacrifice , or that Jews are intent on spilling the blood of their enemies for its own sake , " it says . <p> The entry on " From the river to the sea " says the church endorses the two-state solution and " encourages Catholics to understand and respect the deep religious connection Jews feel towards Israel . " <p> And in the entry on " philosemitism , " the Catholic commentary notes that the church has advised against seders that appropriate Jewish tradition . " The best way for Christians to experience the Seder meal is to observe it by invitation from a Jewish family or organization that welcomes non-Jews to this central celebration of Jewish life , " the commentary says . <p> The guide comes at a time when , perhaps awkwardly , the topic of Catholic antisemitism could hardly be more topical . <p> The adherence of J.D. Vance , the US vice president-elect , to a strain of traditional Catholicism has renewed attention to varieties of Catholic belief . ( Vance has weighed in on church debates , saying , for example , that while he is " not a big Latin Mass guy , " he did not support the church 's recent effort to restrict the traditional liturgy that prays for Jews to convert to Christianity . ) Both Marans and Bambera said antisemitism exists in the traditionalist wing of the church but portrayed it as a fringe attitude . <h> Pope Francis <p> Meanwhile , a series of recent statements by Pope Francis has provided a case study in the way Catholic values and scriptural citations can grate on Jewish ears . <p> Last month , Francis cited experts saying " what is happening in Gaza has the characteristics of a genocide , " and called for the charge -- which Israel strenuously rejects -- to be " carefully investigated . " Then , this month week , he attended the inauguration of a nativity scene at the Vatican that positioned baby Jesus on a keffiyeh , or Palestinian scarf -- a nod to activists who have identified Jesus , a Jew born in Roman times , as a Palestinian . Both incidents drew outcry from Jewish groups , and the nativity scene has since been removed . <p> Earlier , in a letter to Middle Eastern Catholics on Oct. 7 , the one-year anniversary of the Hamas attack , Francis denounced " the spirit of evil that foments war , " and quoted a passage from the Gospel of John to call it " murderous from the beginning " and " a liar and the father of lies . " The quote raised eyebrows because , in the New Testament , it is spoken by Jesus to a group of Jews , whom he calls children of the devil . <p> The word choice drew criticism from Philip Cunningham , a theology professor specializing in Jewish-Catholic relations at St. Joseph 's University . <p> " It is perilous to cite polemical words out of context , particularly words that have consistently sparked enmity toward Jews for centuries , " he wrote in America , a Jesuit magazine . " There is also something peculiarly surreal about this in a letter dated Oct. 7 . " <p> A considerable portion of Wednesday 's event was taken up with Marans and Bambera discussing -- and not quite seeing eye to eye -- about Francis ' recent comments . ( The pope has also issued statements condemning antisemitism , including during the current Gaza war . ) Marans , AJC 's director of interreligious affairs , said in an interview that Francis has demonstrated his opposition to antisemitism -- but added that his conduct has precipitated a " crisis " borne of " a lack of proper attention to Catholic-Jewish relations . " The genocide accusation , Marans said , was the most problematic . <p> " Whimsical use of the word ' genocide ' against the Jewish people is dangerous because it characterizes the only Jewish state in a way that is grist for the mill of Jew-haters -- which Pope Francis is absolutely , unequivocally not , " Marans said . " How does one rationalize those disappointments in speech and action with that overwhelming commitment to opposing antisemitism ? " <p> For Bambera , the pope 's statements are simply expressions of the Catholic emphasis on the value of peace and human life . Francis ' statements stem from his concern for " the dignity of the human person , " the bishop said , including both Palestinians and Israelis . <p> " When he reflects upon the suffering of people who are victimized by terrorism and war , whether it be the Jewish people or countless others around the world , he will always speak of the value of human life and the need to preserve and protect it , " Bambera said at the event . He also reiterated Francis ' opposition to antisemitism . <p> But while Bambera and Marans read Francis ' words differently , they agreed on the path forward : more dialogue . <p> " I absolutely understand and appreciate the reaction of the Jewish community , the concern , perhaps the hurt , perhaps a worry about what this says about our relationship , " Bambera said in an interview . " One of the most significant things about the relationship that we have established , and that quite frankly Pope Francis supports and encourages , is the fact that we Jews and Catholics alike can talk candidly about this . " <p> The AJC has promoted Catholic-Jewish dialogue for more than half a century . It was active in shaping the 1965 church declaration that rejected antisemitism and said the Jews did not kill Jesus , called " Nostra Aetate " and adopted as part of Vatican II . The group consulted on the document , bringing on Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel as an adviser . <p> Marans said the relationship has only improved since then . He added that -- even in light of the pope 's statements on Israel -- Catholic attitudes toward Israel are in a better place than those of some liberal Protestant denominations that have weighed divestment from Israel . <p> " It is a different universe on the Catholic side because there is such commitment to Catholic-Jewish relations , " he said . " It is a given of the Catholic Church today that it is supportive of Catholic-Jewish relations wholeheartedly . " <p> The AJC touted plans to translate the Catholic edition of its glossary into more languages , including Spanish and Polish , and hopes to use it as a model both for Protestant denominations and other religions . Holly Huffnagle , the AJC 's US director for combating antisemitism , said the group 's core goal is to teach people what antisemitism is and how to recognize it . <p> " People are more likely to listen to those they know , those they trust , " she said . " If you are Catholic , you 're more likely to listen to your priest than a Jewish leader . " <p> Working with interfaith partners , she said , has become especially important as those ties have frayed recently , in a moment where protest of Israel 's actions , and antisemitism , have been on the rise . <h> A break in relations <p> " The Christian space is a natural partnership , " she said . " What does it look like to go to other faiths and figure out how to do this project jointly ? We have to take a step back in this moment , as we 've seen real relationship decline . " <p> Both Bambera and Marans said the key to success in this project would be Catholic leadership using the glossary and imparting its message to the rank-and-file . Bambera said the archbishop of a major American archdiocese asked if he could distribute it to his clergy -- a good sign . <p> He added that he hopes to have " more conversations about hard questions " between Catholics and Jews . <p> " Those hard questions should n't stop the dialogue , " he said . " They should be able to grow because the dialogue is rooted in mutual respect and understanding . "
