<p> 2024 featured plenty of memorable collaborations from NxWorries , Kendrick Lamar , and more artists . <p> The last year may have been marred with some of the most viral feuds in hip-hop history , but that does n't mean 2024 was n't filled with phenomenal hip-hop collaborations as well . Even while sparking one of the biggest rifts in years , Kendrick Lamar worked with both Metro Boomin and Future to kick off his war of words with Drake . Anderson . Paak and Knxwledge finally reunited for a new NxWorries album , Boldy James once again partnered with Nicholas Craven , and ASAP Rocky even reached outside of the genre to tap the elusive folk singer , Jessica Pratt , for his Do n't Be Dumb lead single . Altogether , the following hip-hop collaborations have helped lead 2024 to be one of the strongest stretches for hip-hop in recent memory . <h> Future , Metro Boomin , Kendrick Lamar - " Like That " <p> Arguably the most important song on this list for defining this year in hip-hop came from Future , Metro Boomin , and especially Kendrick Lamar . " Like That " launched one of the biggest feuds in the history of the genre , serving as an impetus for countless diss tracks including what may well be the song of the year . Lamar 's fiery verse alone was so headline-grabbing , you might forget Metro Boomin and Future put together an amazing song around it . In what has amounted to a busy year for Future , he gave one of his best choruses when it mattered most . <h> Mach-Hommy , Kaytranada , &amp; 03 Greedo - " #RICHAXXHAITIAN " <p> " #RICHAXXHAITIAN " is a show of force for Mach-Hommy . Teaming up with Kaytranada 's quick-hitting , colorful production for a second time following 2021 's " $payforhaiti , " the underground rapper showcases his hypnotic flows in his most accessible way yet while staying true to his unparalleled lyrical and thematic depth . 03 Greedo chimes in to make singing along to the hook irresistible . <h> MIKE &amp; Tony Seltzer - " Pinball " <p> MIKE has become a staple on year-end lists this decade and 2024 is no different . Teaming up with fellow Brooklyn producer Tony Seltzer , MIKE 's latest project , Pinball , feels like a short and sweet victory lap following the biggest album of his career , Burning Desire . Across just 21 minutes , MIKE bounces over Seltzer 's vibrant , shifting beats for some of his most confidently energetic music yet . <p> El Cousteau included only one feature on his new album , Merci , Non Merci , but it alone was strong enough to position him among the best of the year . For " Words2LiveBy , " he teamed up with the elusive Earl Sweatshirt to drop a career-best single . Earl 's contribution has been getting ample attention on social media and rightfully so . With politically charged bars like " Free Gaza , we on the corner like Israelites , " mixed with emotional proclamations such as , " I 'm not okay , but I 'm gon ' be all right , " he takes the song 's title to heart . Cousteau 's verse is nothing to slouch at either with its raspily delivered bars about dodging task forces and smoking more than Bob Marley . <h> Boldy James &amp; Nicholas Craven - " Penalty of Leadership " <p> Penalty of Leadership arrived at the start of 2024 , a year after Boldy James ' near-fatal car accident that left him with broken vertebrae . The incident is everpresent across the project , whether it be a simple glance at the artwork or recognized through the languished vocals Boldy uses to deliver blunt bars about the incident on tracks like " Brand New Chanel Kicks . " Together with Nicholas Craven 's penchant for finding the perfect sample , Boldy easily dropped one of the best collaborative projects of the year . <h> NxWorries ( Anderson . Paak &amp; Knxwledge ) - " Why Lawd ? " <p> Finally following up on their iconic 2016 collaboration , Yes Lawd ! , Anderson . Paak and Knxwledge proved why they 've been able to retain excitement for a sophomore album for nearly a decade with the release of Why Lawd ? Over the last eight years , . Paak has honed his craft with the release of several critically acclaimed albums , including the massively successful An Evening With Silk Sonic with Bruno Mars , and the maturity shines through in 2024 . The new effort features some of . Paak 's most emotionally candid and vulnerable music yet , while Knxwledge provides a beautifully strung web of production for him to bare his soul across . <h> Sampha &amp; Little Simz - " Satellite Business 2.0 " <p> This year may have been a bit quieter for Sampha than 2023 , but it 's telling that he decided to work with Little Simz for the first single from the deluxe edition of his album , Lahai . " She 's one of my favourite artists , " Sampha said of Simz in a press release caught by Rolling Stone . " Her confidence and creative bravery are so refreshing , it 's amazing to see someone giving so much to their art . " Reworking the original version of " Satellite Business , " Simz joins in to give the track a bolstered level of passion through her existential verse , elevating it to one of the best collaborations of the year . <h> Doechii &amp; JT - " Alter Ego " <p> It 's been a career year for Doechii , who dropped her critically acclaimed third mixtape , Alligator Bites Never Heal , while also lending her talents to songs from high-profile artists such as Tyler , The Creator and Ab-Soul . The effort resulted in several Grammy nominations , including Best New Artist . But before all that , she previewed the year that was to come with her single , " Alter Ego , " with JT . Prophetically , the track kicks open with her emphatic bars announcing the arrival of " Doechii season . " <h> A$AP Rocky &amp; Jessica Pratt - " HIGHJACK " <p> While 2024 has come and gone without the long-awaited release of ASAP Rocky 's fourth studio album , Do n't Be Dumb , he has held fans over with some of his best music in years . On " HIGHJACK , " he brags over beautiful backing vocals about his influence in both hip-hop and fashion while noting his marriage to Rihanna . He even seemingly throws a quick jab Drake 's way by referencing the aforementioned , " Like That . " And this is all before Jessica Pratt , who has been having a huge year of her own , fades in to close out the track with some of the best vocals on a hip-hop song this year . <p> It 's not too often we get to see two hip-hop legends with as much experience as Common and Pete Rock collaborate for an entire album like The Auditorium Vol. 1 . On the new project , they work in tandem to recapture the glory days of hip-hop as they see it , with dense lyricism and crisp production . It 's no surprise Common labeled the project the best in his storied discography during an interview ahead of its release . <p> Cole Blake is a current staff writer at HotNewHipHop based out of New York City . He began writing for the site as an intern back in 2018 while finishing his B.A. in Journalism at St. John 's University . In the time since , he 's covered a number of breaking stories for HNHH . These include the ongoing YSL RICO trial , the allegations surrounding Diddy , and much more . His work also extends outside of hip-hop , having written extensively about a myriad of topics including politics , sports , and pop culture . He 's attended several music festivals to provide coverage for the site as well , such as Rolling Loud and Governors Ball .
