<h> Globe music writers share their favorite albums of 2024 <p> The ways we find and engage with music are changing . While it 's still always possible to hear a great new track on the radio , listeners are now just as likely to have an algorithm suggest a new artist to them on a streaming service , or to learn about a song after it goes viral on TikTok . What has n't changed is how much good , exciting music comes out each year . We asked Boston Globe music writers to tell us 50 of their favorite albums of 2024 , and the results range from folk pop to death metal to cumbia to pop . We hope you spot some of your favorites on here , but also that you find new music to love . What was your favorite album of the year ? Let us know in the comments below . <p> 1 . Beth Gibbons , " Lives Outgrown , " Chamber folk-pop <p> The bewitching voice of Portishead explores more organic , less electronic pathways on her solo debut . Like a lighter but no less ominous version of the Irish band Lankum , Gibbons 's songs ( she wrote them all , some with drummer Lee Harris ) conjure visions of deep forest secrets . Collaborator James Ford adds a textural understory -- cello , vibraphone , singing saw . A nominee for this year 's Mercury Prize , " Lives Outgrown " is , as Gibbons has said , a response to the recent deaths of several friends and family members . We can hear their echoes . ( James Sullivan ) <p> Get Starting Point <p> A guide through the most important stories of the morning , delivered Monday , Wednesday , and Friday . <p> " This ai n't a Country album . This is a Beyonc ? album , " one of the world 's biggest pop stars explained in a statement before releasing her eighth studio album in March . Bey effortlessly flexed her sonic prowess on " Cowboy Carter " as she served up airy wistfulness on songs like " BODYGUARD , " and then took us directly to the hoedown with " RIIVERDANCE . " With guest appearances from the likes of Dolly Parton , Willie Nelson , and Shaboozey , it 's also her most magnanimous offering to date . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> Menacing and wounded , claustrophobic and spare -- the third album from the Los Angeles bedroom-pop megastar revels in its contradictions , from its title through its headphone-ready sonics . Eilish 's defiant walking of her own path has made her one of music 's most compelling stars , and the compact , intricate " HIT ME HARD AND SOFT " continues her evolution as a vocalist ( on " BIRDS OF A FEATHER , " she summons newfound power in crushing vulnerability ) while also sounding deliciously dark . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> While the typical death metal band fixates on matters of gore or the grave , Denver 's Blood Incantation cast their gaze to the skies . On " Absolute Elsewhere , " the group contemplate heady notions of time , space , consciousness , and the very nature of being via blisteringly heavy riffage and an embrace of vintage prog-rock and electronic textures . Thorsten Quaeschning , current leader of pioneering German synth outfit Tangerine Dream , even drops in for a guest spot . By turns brutal and beautiful , " Elsewhere " is an assertion of the quartet 's well-deserved position at the forefront of American metal . ( Ben Stas ) <p> 5 . Brittany Howard , " What Now , " Alternative <p> While the Alabama Shakes were at the height of their powers , Howard left the band in 2019 and released her solo debut . Then a pandemic hit . She asked herself , " What now ? " That question became her follow-up . The answer was whatever she wants -- from twilight ballads like " To Be Still " to dance grooves like " Prove It to You . " Her ideas , full of color and life , are as powerful as her voice . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 6 . Britti , " Hello , I 'm Britti. , " Country-soul <p> Dan Auerbach seems to have a talent for midwifing modern permutations of classic country-soul ( and for doing it with singers who go by a single name ) . First it was Yola five years ago ; this year he combined forces with Brittany Guerin , who performs as Britti . Her stunning debut record , " Hello , I 'm Britti. , " is one long , simmering groove , fueled by her tremulous voice , from the start to the end of its 11 songs . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> Supposedly this jangle-punk group from coastal Wales first came to life as blues-rockers . Hard to imagine , given their frantic , and frankly delirious , approach to pop songwriting . They do tend to repeat phrases , but not in the bluesy AAB way . " Everybody thinks they look a bit like James Bond , " Sam Willmett and Tilly Harris chant over and over , like they 're hanging from their knees on a jungle gym . Welcome to a world in which the Strokes were uncool enough to be class clowns . ( James Sullivan ) <p> 8 . Charley Crockett , " $10 Cowboy , " Classic country <p> " Some people come in the back door , " Charley Crockett told the Globe back in 2019 . " Others dig a hole through the basement . " At age 40 , with 10 years of " hoboing " under his belt and nearly 10 more cranking out more than a dozen albums , this country-soul original has finally broken through to the main stage . He calls his ace backing band the Blue Drifters , named , presumably , for Crockett 's melancholy moods ( " America , " " Ai n't Done Losing Yet " ) and Hank Williams 's alter-ego . ( James Sullivan ) <p> " BRAT " summer ? More like the year of the " BRAT . " From the moment that Charli XCX dropped " Von dutch , " the braggadocious lead single of what would become her most consequential album to date , the pop singer was speaking her cultural domination into existence . When her 2022 record " Crash " did n't deliver the mainstream renown it was engineered for , XCX threw the messiness of modern fame and womanhood at the wall with " BRAT " -- and it stuck . The result is swaggering electro-pop that finds catharsis through sweat-slicked " Club classics " and heart-piercing confessionals . Both are " BRAT , " both are brilliant -- and pop culture will be " bumpin ' that " indefinitely . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> Advertisement <p> 10 . Charlie Kohlhase , " A Second Life , " Jazz <p> Saxophonist and composer Kohlhase , a mainstay of the Boston scene for decades , poured a lifetime of experience into this " second life " ( following his diagnosis as HIV positive ) . He matches his own well-turned compositions with those by friends and mentors John Tchicai and Roswell Rudd , as well as Elmo Hope and Ornette Coleman . Played by an octet of longtime Kohlhase comrades , the forms swing with relaxed assurance and buzz with happy free-form chatter . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 11 . Chuck Prophet with ? Qiensave ? , " Wake the Dead , " Cumbia <p> Who could have predicted this left turn ? Sparked by an obsession with cumbia music , and then by that obsession getting him through treatment for lymphoma , Prophet began jamming with cumbia band ? Qiensave ? . They did a couple of live dates , and then Prophet brought together that band and his own Mission Express to make " Wake the Dead . " What emerged is a phenomenal mashup of Prophet 's songwriting prowess with the cumbia and other Latin flavors imparted by his collaborators . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> Absent from most streaming services , initially distributed via a Geocities web page and clocking in at 32 songs over two hours , sonic architect Patrick Flegel 's 2024 opus under the Cindy Lee moniker defies convention at almost every turn . Its word-of-mouth buzz across the year hearkens back to an earlier , simpler Internet music culture , while its distinctively reverb-drenched tunes conjure an eerie sense of bygone Americana that feels far removed from the internet era altogether . It 's a timeline and a universe unto itself -- at first imposing , eventually intoxicating . ( Ben Stas ) <p> Advertisement <p> 13 . Dawn Richard and Spencer Zahn , " Quiet in a World Full of Noise , " Soul/modern classical <p> The second collaboration between New Orleans funk futurist Dawn Richard and modern classical composer Spencer Zahn finds comfort in the spaces between the notes and discovers satisfaction in being fully present with oneself . On the self-affirming title track , Richard 's resonant alto is buttressed by Zahn 's glassy piano chords before folding in on itself , underscoring her desire to live defiantly as herself ; the fluttering , cleansing " To Remove " combines minimalist poetry with hazy sonics . Richard and Zahn have created a stunning escape that runs 37 minutes , but has long-term effects . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> 14 . Doechii , " Alligator Bites Never Heal , " Hip hop/rap <p> The rapper who infamously dubbed herself the " trap Grace Jones " poured her soul into her infectious mixtape , " Alligator Bites Never Heal . " Released on Kendrick Lamar 's former label Top Dawg Entertainment , Doechii 's latest project is her most raw and ambitious to date . While her discography contains songs like the lustrous and radio-friendly " What It Is ( Block Boy ) , " " Alligator Bites Never Heal " flipped that formula on its head . Whether it was the old school fundamentals of " BOOM BAP " or the pervasive sleekness of " NISSAN ALTIMA , " the Tampa native rose to the occasion in the most beguiling of ways . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> 15 . Fontaines D.C. , " Romance , " Indie/alternative rock <p> On the fourth full-length from Ireland 's Fontaines D.C. , the band expands the horizons of their signature post-punk toward both the darkness and the light . The unwholesome side of devotion compels singer Grian Chatten on the title track , which creeps along with a tense unease , before lead single " Starburster " explodes into a head-spinning , trip-hop-flavored evocation of a panic attack . But lying in wait elsewhere are wistful and dreamlike asides , and a brilliantly jangly closer that sounds like a new band entirely . Casting aside their genre bonds , " Romance " finds Fontaines making their most colorful and unpredictable music yet . ( Ben Stas ) <p> 16 . Fred Hersch , " Silent , Listening , " Jazz <p> Hersch 's latest solo outing has the vibe of an intimate , late night session , as if you were eavesdropping on the great pianist 's innermost thoughts . They include a handful of standards and a clutch of improvisations , with the latter featuring some strikingly dissonant harmonies . They 're all stripped to the essentials and rendered with Hersch 's trademark pellucid touch , so that each note lands with quiet power . ( David Weininger ) <p> 17 . Ghost Funk Orchestra , " A Trip to the Moon , " Jazz/funk <p> This 2024 release from Seth Applebaum and his Ghost Funk Orchestra project sounds like a Lalo Schifrin soundtrack to a ' 70s sci-fi movie that does n't exist . The loosely conceptual album was sparked by Applebaum 's discovery that recordings of astronaut communications on various Apollo space flights had been placed in the public domain . He grabbed chunks of those recordings and used them to tie together slices of big-band jazz and funk , some of it instrumental , some featuring fantastic work from twin vocalists Romi Hanoch and Megan Mancini . Brilliantly conceived , and perfectly executed . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> 18 . Grupo Frontera , " Jugando a que no Pasa Nada , " Latin <p> This Texas Tejano music combo rocketed from playing backyard parties to arenas ( as well as Harvard , where they were honored by a student group ) . Their accessible sound is rooted in Mexican cumbias norte ? as , but is modern and versatile enough to generate collaborations with reggaeton stars like Bad Bunny and , on this album , Maluma . On their sophomore record , Grupo Frontera keep the party eclectic , playing everything from cowboy songs to " Desquite , " a fiery electro collaboration with Argentine rapper Nicki Nicole . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> 19 . Hinds , " VIVA HINDS , " Garage rock <p> Hinds may have split in half last year , slimming the band down to the best friend duo of Ana Perrote and Carlotta Cosials , but " VIVA HINDS " proves the Madrid band 's buoyant garage rock has n't lost any bounce in the rearrangement . Even its more subdued moments are exuberant -- like the lush " Bon Voyage " -- and Hinds ' fourth album prioritizes fun over all else , whirring through adulthood with a backdrop of blithe , hooky rock as their playground . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> 20 . Holly Humberstone , " Work in Progress , " Bedroom pop <p> Theoretically , this four-song collection of leftover scraps from before the release of last year 's marvelous full-length debut , " Paint My Bedroom Black , " should play like a step backward for Humberstone . But it 's the context that makes all the difference in the world , and the English singer 's pointed but gentle and openhearted paeans to loneliness , isolation , and heartbreak on " Work in Progress " carry a substantially different weight , given what lay just over the horizon for her . The young woman cobbling together her communiques from her bedroom is about to accomplish wonderful things , and we get to hear her inch toward them . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> Jamie BaumErika Kapin Photography <p> 21 . Jamie Baum Septet+ , " What Times Are These , " Jazz <p> The esteemed jazz flutist and composer Jamie Baum responded to the COVID-19 shutdown by reading poetry and writing music . The result is this sublime suite mixing spoken and sung texts with instrumentals . The poets include Adrienne Rich , Marge Piercy , and Tracy K. Smith , with singer/speakers including Theo Bleckmann , Aubrey Johnson , and Sara Serpa , plus Baum 's stellar Septet+ . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 22 . JasonMartin and DJ Quik , " CHUPACABRA , " Rap <p> While Kendrick Lamar put the West on his shoulders , JasonMartin ( formerly known as Problem ) has quietly rebranded himself into one of that coast 's sharpest curators , respected enough to team up with Compton legend DJ Quick , connected enough to pull The Game , Sugar Free , and George Clinton into the fray , and in tune enough to tap Meet The Whoops , Larry June , and Ab-Soul in for a project that time travels through nearly four decades of California sounds while staying present and looking forward . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 23 . Kali Uchis , " ORQU ? DEAS , " Reggaeton/synth-pop <p> When Kali Uchis released her album " ORQU ? DEAS " in January , the seedlings of her next project -- August 's " ORQU ? DEAS PARTE 2 " -- were already in the soil . The extension of " ORQU ? DEAS " ( " Orchids " in Spanish ) builds upon the superstar-stacked first edition of the record , deepening its richly-textured mix of reggaeton , R&amp;B , and synth-pop with a trio of new songs . Each addition is a sultry brush with a different facet of romance : uncensored sensuality ( " Adicto " ) , tenderness ( " Simple " ) , and lifelong yearning ( " Como Debe Ser " ) . A remix of " Young Rich &amp; in Love " from KAYTRANADA rounds out the Virginia singer 's refreshed bouquet . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> After his high-profile beef with Drake dominated the cultural zeitgeist for all of 2024 , Kendrick Lamar basked in the role of rap 's biggest supervillain on " GNX . " His last album , " Mr. Morale &amp; the Big Steppers , " showed the emcee battling his biggest demons even as his self-awareness became nearly crippling . However , on his latest project , Lamar opted to embrace his inner petty . From the mariachi musings on the theatrical " wacced out murals " to the hyphy cool of " tv off , " the Pulitzer Prize-winning artist made being an anti-hero enviable . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> As the Belfast trio slips back and forth between languages ( English and Irish ) , their accents in both attack the cadences of rap from directions they 've rarely been touched before . The topics range from Irish self-determination to the desire to get whacked out on any number of substances , and the musical backdrops provided by DJ Pr ? va ? treat the listener 's brain like a metal barrel that he 's dropping a thousand ball bearings into before shaking rapidly . It 's a wild ride when it 's on , even if you ca n't remember it as soon as it 's over . That 's OK ; neither can Kneecap , probably . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> 26 . Kris Davis , " Run the Gauntlet , " Jazz <p> Call this Kris Davis 's power-trio record . Following her wide-ranging Diatom Ribbons project , the 44-year-old pianist and composer joined forces with previous-generation masters Robert Hurst ( bass ) and Johnathan Blake ( drums ) . There are plenty of pianistic fireworks and hard-driving grooves as well as more impressionistic explorations , but the real juice here is in the band 's three-way push-pull through Davis 's sparkling compositions ( and one beauty by Blake ) . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 27 . Kyshona , " Legacy , " Soul/blues <p> A marvel of respect , research , and roots , Kyshona 's April album , " Legacy , " is where care meets family lore . The Nashville artist cradles five generations -- culled straight from The Smithsonian Institute 's National Museum of African American History &amp; Culture -- and her own stories within this blues-streaked labor of love . Kyshona fits figures from across her lineage into 16 tracks , yet " Legacy " never feels compressed . Quite the opposite ; it 's an expansive tribute whose soul-stirring melodies resurrect the past with striking clarity . ( Victoria Wasylak ) <p> 28 . La Do ? a , " Los Altos de la Soledad , " Latin <p> This Bay Area **27;1074;TOOLONG was raised in a family that included mariachi musicians and United Farm Workers activists . Both of those streams come through loud and clear in her creative and sincere debut LP . She sings about her musical life accompanied by brilliantly orchestrated mariachi trumpets in " Confesiones . " " Corrido Palestina " uses the traditional Mexican topical music form to address the situation in Gaza , while " C ? rrales " is a reggaeton and hip-hop commentary on police construction . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> Singer , songwriter , actor , and charmer Lainey Wilson dubs her blend of country , soul , Southern rock , and **30;1103;TOOLONG romanticism " bell-bottom country , " and her fifth full-length is the latest piece of proof that she 's tapped into a winning formula . Lovelorn cuts like the gently giddy " Counting Chickens " show off her sweet side , while " Bar in Baton Rouge " channels day-drinking-borne regrets into an arena-ready country-rock epic . Wilson 's latest album might have arrived at a moment when , as she sings , " Country 's Cool Again , " but her infectious charm and keen songwriting would make her honky-tonk a place to be no matter what the reigning pop-music mood . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> 30 . Liniker , " CAJU , " Latin <p> A new generation of Brazilian stars are starting to make an impact in the US , thanks to booty shakers like Pabllo Vittar and Anitta . The most grand artistic statement in Brazilian music this year came from Liniker , who was the first trans artist to win a Latin Grammy . Her sultry voice and deeply moving lyrics have a strong R&amp;B tilt , occasionally mixed with the Afro-Brazilian Pagode rhythms that she grew up with . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> On the surface , " Samurai " is a light , jazz-drenched walk in the park for Lupe . But peel back the layers -- and Lupe is nothing if not layered -- and you discover that the jazz is part of a narrative crafted to explore the " what-if " of Amy Winehouse as a battle rapper . Nine albums in , Lupe is both imaginative and free . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 32 . Mdou Moctar , " Funeral for Justice , " Desert blues <p> We 've been blessed in recent years with an influx of thrilling music from Africa -- specifically , the guitar-heavy desert blues of the Saharan countries . Etran De L'A ? r , Tinariwen , Bombino : they 're all worth celebrating . But this Tuareg bandleader 's cosmic racket is in a class by itself . His second album for Matador Records ( sixth overall ) may be his best yet . Moctar 's entrancing songs often follow a simple formula -- mid-tempo beginnings that ramp up to a breakneck pace . As if time is running out . ( James Sullivan ) <p> 33 . MJ Lenderman , " Manning Fireworks , " Alt-country <p> You 'd be hard pressed to find a more quotable 2024 LP than singer-songwriter MJ Lenderman 's " Manning Fireworks . " Rendered in fiddle , pedal steel , and shades of Crazy Horse , the nine-song collection weaves left-field pop-culture references ( a vision of a certain Disney-Pixar character with a drinking problem ) and oddball turns of phrase ( the instantly memorable " houseboat docked at the Himbo-Dome " ) into a highlight reel of lyrical gems . Meanwhile , glimpses of heartbreak beg the question of where Lenderman the fictionist ends and Lenderman the main character begins . The end result lands at a sweet spot of tossed-off wisdom and genuine pathos . ( Ben Stas ) <p> 34 . Nduduzo Makhathini , " uNomkhubulwane , " South African jazz <p> Like John Coltrane 's " A Love Supreme , " the latest album from this South African pianist is made up not of songs but movements : " Libations , " " Water Spirits , " and " Inner Attainment . " His third release for Blue Note following a decade of self-releases , the album title refers to the Zulu goddess of rain , nature , light , and fertility . Sometimes accompanied by his own spoken word meditations , this music sounds like both a seamless fit with the jazz label 's legendary catalog and a departure into the uncertain years ahead . ( James Sullivan ) <p> 35 . Nick Lowe , " Indoor Safari , " Pop <p> Nick Lowe has n't released an album in over a decade , but if " Indoor Safari " is any indication , he just keeps getting better with age . This is the first record he 's made with the masked men in Los Straitjackets , who 've been serving as his touring band for several years . It is vintage late-period Lowe , chock full of his inimitable , razor-sharp combination of sardonic wit , heart-on-sleeve sentiments , and wry self-deprecation wedded to sometimes country-flecked , sometimes soul-steeped classic pop music . At 75 , Nick Lowe is back , making pure pop for now people again . ( Stuart Munro ) <p> 36 . Nil ? fer Yanya , " Method Actor , " Rock/R&amp;B <p> This British singer-songwriter interrogates the relationship between her public and private selves on her third album , which combines sumptuous grooves with stinging guitar riffs and Yanya 's smoke-plume voice . Simmering cuts like the shapeshifting " Like I Say ( I runaway ) " and the high-wire-act " Mutations " give " My Method Actor " heat , while Yanya 's lyrics , which deftly combine surrealism and self-laceration , invite listeners to dig even deeper . ( Maura Johnston ) <p> 37 . Rapsody , " Please Do n't Cry , " Rap <p> The path Rapsody has walked for more than a decade has become so narrow that it 's become her own lane . As much as women have dominated mainstream rap recently , no one has been as committed to gracefully , thoughtfully , and soulfully examining love -- from ludus to agape -- while also remaining dangerously sharp lyrically . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> 38 . Renacer ? , " Superf ? nicos , " Latin <p> This Colombia-via-Austin 's band says it wants its audience to " let go and embrace an experience that is more connected to the earth and our ancestors . " " Renacer ? " accomplishes this mission with ferocious grooves that update the Latin funk sound that soared in the ' 70s , while capturing the energetic vibe of this music that often eludes bands who try to retain their live energy in the studio . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> Riley MulherkarZenith Richards <p> 39 . Riley Mulherkar , " Riley , " Jazz <p> Studio manipulation paradoxically turned Westerlies trumpeter Riley Mulherkar 's solo debut into one of the most intimate and emotionally expressive jazz releases of the year . The mix of electronic effects with close-miked foot stomps and Mulherkar 's breaths created a unique " live " room for " King Porter Stomp , " " Stardust , " some sharp originals , and a hair-raising performance of the gospel hymn " No More , " with singer Vuyo Sotashe . ( Jon Garelick ) <p> 40 . Ron Miles , " Old Main Chapel , " Jazz <p> When Miles , a Denver-based cornet player , died of a rare blood disorder in 2022 , the music world lost an artist whose inventiveness stood in inverse proportion to his ego -- a soulful improviser who was just starting to attract the kind of attention he 'd long deserved but never sought . Here is a touching memorial : a luminous 2011 concert at the University of Colorado Boulder in the company of guitarist Bill Frisell and drummer Brian Blade , both prized collaborators . They all play for the rapport rather than the spotlight , but a close listen reveals Miles 's own poignant voice , singing right through . ( David Weininger ) <p> 41 . ScHoolboy Q , " Blue Lips , " Rap <p> Caught at a crossroads between conceptual and commercial , ScHoolboy Q was ready to walk away from rap , play golf , and take his daughter to soccer games . With attention-spans blown to bits , he wondered if there was still room for someone who treated street rap like high art . That became the premise for his fifth album , which ca n't hold a thought longer than 45 seconds and knows its listeners ca n't either . He sinks into survivors ' guilt , but celebrates himself for making it . He two-steps to soul grooves , and swerves into thumping Three 6 Mafia samples . If IG reels were albums , this would be it . ( Julian Benbow ) <p> Shaboozey 's history-making single , " A Bar Song ( Tipsy ) , " brilliantly interpolated J-Kwon 's 20-year-old club anthem with the star 's modern country sprightliness . " Where I 've Been , Is n't Where I 'm Going " is n't a declarative statement as much as it is an evolution of an artist who worked hard to find his creative footing . In 2024 , Shaboozey undeniably hit his stride , with an appearance on Beyonc ? ' s " Cowboy Carter " serving as solid confirmation of this . In short , his groundbreaking year was long overdue . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> 2021 's " Daddy 's Home " was , by St. Vincent 's standards ( and nobody else 's ) , a disappointment . " All Born Screaming " is a retrenchment , and if it merely recapitulates her myriad strengths , my goodness , what strengths to recapitulate . The songs swerve kaleidoscopically , hard in " Flea " and so delicately in " Hell Is Near " that she 's practically floating . The terrifying stasis of " Reckless " is driven by agonized numbness , a contradiction if there ever was one , but St. Vincent has never shied away from contradictions and the tension therein . " What are you looking at ? , " she spits as a corroded guitar chord calls attention to her , and it 's hard to turn away . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> 45 . Swamp Dogg , " Black Grass , " Bluegrass <p> Jerry Williams , a.k.a . Swamp Dogg , is best known as soul music 's most idiosyncratic and wildly funny voice . Now , a half-century after he co-wrote the Johnny Paycheck smash " She 's All I Got , " he 's returned to twang with a crew of bluegrass super pickers like Sierra Hull and Jerry Douglas . Jenny Lewis is an ideal duet foil on " Count the Days , " a tune Williams wrote for Patti LaBelle and the Bluebelles in the ' 60s , which just goes to show there was always some country in his soulful story songs . ( Noah Schaffer ) <p> Sixteen years after their last studio record , The Cure return to prove they have n't lost a single gloomy step . " Songs of a Lost World " operates firmly in the sweeping gothic drama that defines some of the band 's best-loved work , but adds new layers of resonance with the years . Frontman Robert Smith 's achingly personal writing is at its best on majestic opener " Alone " and " I Can Never Say Goodbye " -- composed for the singer 's late brother -- and the band 's towering rhythms and shimmering backdrops accompany him as strikingly as ever . It 's downcast music , but it soars on a remarkable late-career triumph . ( Ben Stas ) <p> Mila de la Garza ( left ) and Eloise Wong of The Linda Lindas at the 33rd annual KROQ Almost Acoustic Christmas 2024 at The Kia Forum on Dec. 14 , 2024 in Inglewood , Calif.Kevin Winter/Getty Images for Audacy <p> The Linda Lindas channeled raucous fury on their second full-length album , " No Obligation . " The quartet , consisting of guitarists Bela Salazar and Lucia de la Garza , drummer Mila de la Garza , and bassist/pianist Eloise Wong , delivered songs that were jolting breaths of fresh air . None of the album 's tracks are over four minutes long -- but each one was uniquely memorable . From the savory melodies of " All In My Head " to frenetic energy " Resolution/Revolution , " these pop-punk rockers are carving out their niche in the music industry . ( Candace McDuffie ) <p> 48 . The Smile , " Cutouts , " Rock <p> One can only imagine how liberating it must be for Thom Yorke and Jonny Greenwood to make music with ace drummer Tom Skinner : The Smile 's output -- three albums over 2 ? years -- dwarfs that of any phase of Radiohead 's career . On their latest , the textures , references , and song structures get weirder and more diverse ( ' 80s synths ? Check . Windows 95 name drop ? Check . ) . But these are pop songs , no matter how unconventional the trappings , all rendered in Yorke 's inescapably beautiful voice . Choice track : " Zero Sum " ( David Weininger ) <p> 49 . Tish Melton , " When We 're Older , " Folk-pop <p> Tish Melton 's Brandi Carlile-produced debut sounds like the first excited flush of someone speaking up after spending her whole life holding her tongue . But the 17-year-old is n't interested in lashing out or settling scores . Instead , she tenderly but firmly insists that she has something to say , whether it 's the openhearted acceptance of " Damage " or the sad defiance of walking away from a friendship in " The Chase . " " When We 're Older " marks Melton 's first steps toward not just adulthood but being her own person , and she takes them with grace . ( Marc Hirsh ) <p> 50 . TORRES , " What An Enormous Room , " Indie pop <p> " Did I hit a nerve ? , " Mackenzie Scott repeats over and over in " Collect , " and the spacious , warmly overdriven whir of the songs on " What an enormous room " are delivered with a glower that suggests she 's not all that bothered by it . With frictionless , superficially impassive vocals and a crisp snap even to the wilder tracks , TORRES occupies a middle ground between St. Vincent and Caroline Polachek ( the latter recalled best in the heartburst of " Jerk into joy " ) . She 's an artist captured repeatedly in the thrall of her feelings , for good and for ill . And she 's curious enough to see where it takes her . ( Marc Hirsh )
