<p> On Monday , following Israel 's decision to close its embassy in Ireland , the newly appointed Israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Saar lashed out at Ireland 's Taoiseach ( Prime Minister ) Simon Harris , accusing him of anti-Semitism . " There is a difference between criticism , " Saar said , " and anti-Semitism based on the delegitimisation and dehumanisation of Israel and double standards towards Israel as opposed to other countries . This is how Ireland allowed itself to behave towards Israel . " <p> Responding to the furore , Harris told reporters in Dublin that Ireland would not be silenced , stressing Ireland had remained consistent throughout the war in its support for Israel 's " right to defend itself " within the limits of international law . <p> However , " You know what I think is reprehensible ? , " Harris caveated , " Killing children , I think that 's reprehensible . You know what I think is reprehensible ? Seeing the scale of civilian deaths that we 've seen in Gaza . You know what I think is reprehensible ? People being left to starve and humanitarian aid not flowing . " <p> Advertisement <h> Support during war <p> Irish politicians have largely provided vocal criticism of Israel 's war on Gaza , but this is a reflection of the wider sentiment in Ireland , where much of the public sees Israel 's occupation of the Palestinians as a mirror of the centuries-long English occupation of Ireland . Even if their actions sometimes fall short , Ireland and Irish politicians have provided vocal criticism of Israel throughout its war on Gaza , reflecting a feeling polls show to be widespread across a society that finds much in Palestinian history to mirror its own . <p> " People say they understand it right away , " said Fatin Al Tamimi , the Vice Chair of the Ireland Palestine Solidarity Campaign ( IPSC ) . <p> Al Tamimi 's own sister is currently trapped in Gaza , and even with Harris 's criticisms of Israel she still wants his government to do more and end trade with Israel . But among the Irish public , Al Tamimi said she has always felt a kindred spirit . <p> " As soon as they find out I 'm Palestinian , they immediately say they get it , but I still have to explain what the occupation and apartheid means and the scale of the genocide being carried out in Gaza , " Al Tamimi said . <p> In November 2023 , just a month after the Hamas-led attack on Israel and the start of Israel 's war on Gaza , former Irish leader Leo Varadkar characterised Israel 's actions as " approaching revenge " . A month later , Ireland , with the backing of Spain , Belgium , and Malta , urged other countries within the bloc to call for a ceasefire , admitting there was " some truth " in accusations from the Global South that the European Union was employing double standards in its position on the wars in Ukraine -- where it was clear in its condemnation of Russia 's invasion and occupation -- and Gaza . <p> Advertisement <p> However , it was n't until May of this year that Ireland , along with Spain and Norway recognised Palestinian statehood , eliciting the fury of the Israeli government , which temporarily recalled its ambassador , Dana Erlich . <p> " Irish support for Palestine is longstanding and widespread , " Ray Murphy , professor at the Irish Centre for Human Rights , University of Galway told Al Jazeera , " It cuts across all social classes , ages and political allegiances . " <p> " I think politicians , even those known for traditionally supporting Palestine , were surprised by the strength of feeling on the doorstep , " Murphy said , referring to Ireland 's November general election , and the practice of politicians knocking on household doors to elicit support . <p> " Palestine is an issue people here care deeply about . It 's one of the few issues where there are no grey areas ; people see it as just right . " <h> Israeli anger <p> Coverage of Ireland 's decision to join the South African case has been limited , if barbed , within the Israeli media , left-wing Israeli legislator Ofer Cassif told Al Jazeera . <p> On Tuesday , the widely read Times of Israel ran a blog piece entitled , Why the Irish Hate the Jews , in which the author Lisa Liel stated that it was Ireland 's ingrained Christianity , a religion she characterised as " inherently anti semitic " that had led to it objecting to Israel 's killing of more than 45,000 Palestinians in Gaza . <p> The same day , Israeli author Saul Sadka took to social media to wryly compare and conflate years of Irish migration as a result of famine , poverty and colonisation to criticism of Israel for colonising Palestinian land . <p> Imagine being Irish and accusing others of being " settler colonialists " ? <p> But this explains why Ireland , with only 2,000 Jews , has nevertheless become a primary exporter of Jew-hate . If your brightest 50% escape every generation , for 10 generations , you are left with Ireland . **26;1134;TOOLONG <p> The row with Ireland " definitely does n't undermine the government or the support to Netanyahu " , Cassif said , " And even the media hardly covers it . You know , it is the usual , the ordinary drill : every time that there is a criticism from one angle or another it is immediately branded anti-Semitism and all that hogwash , " he said . <h> International relations <p> However , while the current row with Israel may win Dublin some domestic support , it nevertheless casts Ireland , and to a lesser degree Spain , as outliers within an EU that typically backs Israel . <p> Germany has been a strong backer of Israel , clamping down on pro-Palestinian activism in the country . Meanwhile , the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen has repeatedly backed Israel , leading to a letter of complaint from hundreds of EU officials . <p> " I understand that some EU countries , such as Germany , have their own reasons for supporting Israel , but I 'm not so worried about the EU , " Murphy said . <p> " The EU is bound by treaties and conventions and protocols , so that 's not much of a concern , " Murphy added . " What is concerning is the US , which is Ireland 's largest overseas investor and what this might mean for the future of that relationship , especially with the incoming Trump administration . " <p> While the degree of direct support offered by the US to Israel by a Trump administration is unlikely to vary greatly from his predecessor , the incoming president 's previous use of trade and tariffs as a means to secure international political advantage is concerning , Murphy said . <p> Advertisement <p> Despite its relatively small population , Ireland attracts a considerable level of direct foreign investment from the United States , ranking sixth , above Italy , South Korea and Mexico ; countries with populations far in excess of Ireland 's 5 million . <p> Will that be enough to change Ireland 's official positions if the US increases its pressure ? That will depend on how far the next US administration is willing to go for Israel , and how resolute Ireland and its politicians prove to be . <p> But many Irish are unwavering . And in Al Tamimi 's case , the connection is personal , and one that speaks to both sides of her identity , and that of her three Irish-born and bred children . <p> " They want to see Palestine , " she explained . " Of course , they 're Irish citizens . They could go there to visit , but that 's not the same . They 're Palestinian . They want to go there and live . "
