<p> One 12-year-old student described to The Jewish Chronicle how the mob was swearing antisemitic profanities at the group and then threw rocks at them while screaming , " F*** Israel . Nobody likes you . F*** off you bitches . " <p> This antisemitic attack did not occur in a vacuum . From Paris to London to New York and San Francisco , antisemitism is on the rise across the West , leaving Jewish students vulnerable . In such a violent atmosphere , we must appreciate a country like Azerbaijan , where incidents like this simply do not happen . <p> Jewish civilization in Azerbaijan dates back over 1,500 years . Oral tradition states that Jews first arrived in the South Caucasus country during the eighth century BCE . <h> Jews living in peace <p> Since then , the Jews of Azerbaijan have been living in peace and harmony , without experiencing any antisemitism except during the relatively brief invasions by Nadir Shah and the Soviet Union . Since Azerbaijan broke away from the Soviet Union and declared independence , Jewish life in Azerbaijan has been flourishing , especially since the country opened an embassy in Israel last year . Azerbaijan &amp; Israel Cooperation ( credit : PIXABAY ) <p> In a world torn apart by antisemitic hatred and intolerance , multicultural and religiously diverse Azerbaijan stands out as a role model for other countries . It is an example of how Jews and Muslims can coexist peacefully and be friends , celebrating each other 's holidays and the diversity that the South Caucasus country has to offer . <p> Jewish children who travel home from school in Baku , Quba , Oghuz , Ganja , and other Azerbaijani cities are not harassed by antisemitic mobsters . They are encouraged to share their culture and way of life with the greater Muslim population as well as the other religious groups that live in Azerbaijan . <p> No one in Azerbaijan taunts them about their connection to Israel . On the contrary , over 40% of Israel 's oil originates in Azerbaijan , and over 120 Israeli firms operate within the South Caucasus country , with many more exploring the possibility of relocating . <p> In fact , Azerbaijanis not only refrain from taunting Jewish students , but they have profound admiration and respect for Israel because they see many parallels between Israeli history and their own . They feel that the United States and France have given Azerbaijan the " Israel treatment " on more than one occasion . <p> Much in the way that the world criticizes Israel 's conduct in Gaza and Lebanon , Azerbaijan experienced similar criticism during the Second Karabakh War and the subsequent military operation . <p> Thirty years ago , the Armenians -- with support from the Russians and the Iranians -- captured Karabakh and the seven Azerbaijani districts , comprising one-fifth of Azerbaijan , in violation of four UN Security Council resolutions , which resulted in close to a million Azerbaijanis being displaced from their homes . <p> For 30 years , Armenian settler colonialists occupied these lands and committed crimes against humanity while the world looked on silently as an area larger than Lebanon endured a brutal occupation . <p> However , when Azerbaijan decided to reassert her national sovereignty and enforce international law , the West turned on Azerbaijan , a country that had helped the US fight the Taliban in Afghanistan and had provided Europe with energy security in the wake of the war in Ukraine . <p> Similarly , today , the same world that cried with Israel as 1,200 Israelis were massacred , mutilated , and raped , and over 250 others were abducted to Gaza by Hamas terrorists on October 7 , 2023 , is now critical of Israel for defending herself in the face of such brutal terrorism . Azerbaijan has great sympathy for Israel 's position because they are in the same position . <p> For this reason , Jews will always need to have friends like Azerbaijan , who stand beside us in our hour of need , and should do everything to stand in solidarity with Azerbaijan .
