<h> Vybz Kartel 's Homecoming : From Prison Release To The Grammys &amp; Beyond <p> After his release in July 2024 , Vybz Kartel returned home to a warm embrace . Now , he 's plotting on his highly-anticipated homecoming performance , entrepreneurial ventures , and celebrating the 10-year anniversary of his seminal album , " Viking ( Vybz Is King ) . " <p> Vybz Kartel is finally home after 13 years of incarceration . Though much of the headlines in the music industry this year surrounded one beef or another , a string of arrests and heinous allegations , and other petty drama , the return of Vybz Kartel was well-received across the board . The dancehall sensation was released on July 31st , 2024 after successfully getting his conviction overturned . In the months that followed , he began laying the foundation for what will undoubtedly be an amazing 2025 , beginning with the highly anticipated Freedom Street concert on New Year 's Eve . <h> A Journey From Bars To Grammy Nods <p> It 's difficult to put Vybz Kartel 's impact throughout his incarceration in words . Even while serving a sentence that could 've left him behind bars for decades to come , there was n't a single party or summer where Vybz 's voice did n't ring through the speakers . Of course , this is not solely off of his back catalog but also , his prolific output that he managed to record while imprisoned . His 2024 EP , Party With Me , dropped two months before his release , and undoubtedly had a grip on the year . More importantly , it also earned him a Grammy nomination for Best Reggae Album . <p> The impeccable feat marked a warm welcome back for the King of Dancehall , one who has remained at the forefront of the genre for nearly two decades . His influence continuously exceeds his own genre , too . It 's hard not to look at the catalogs of Drake , Rihanna , and Major Lazer without feeling his impact and influence . <h> Vybz Kartel Is Still King ... 10 Years Later <p> As the new year begins , Vybz Kartel will honor the 10-year anniversary of his groundbreaking album Viking ( Vybz Is King ) with a deluxe re-release . Originally launched in 2015 , the album cemented Kartel 's reputation as the undisputed king of dancehall , featuring hits like " Unstoppable , " " Dancehall , " and " Gon Get Better . " The deluxe edition , set to drop in January 2025 , will include remastered versions of the original songs alongside bonus tracks that showcase Kartel 's evolving artistry . <h> Freedom Street : A Historic Return to the Stage <p> More than anything else , the most exciting part of Vybz Kartel 's return is the legendary performances that we will hopefully see in the future . On December 31st , 2024 , Vybz will headline the Freedom Street concert at Kingston 's National Stadium -- a landmark event marking his first performance since his release . As you could expect , it will be packed to the brim with dancehall 's finest talent including several collaborators , like Spice and Popcaan . Additionally , other prominent guests at the concert include the new generation , including Skillibeng and Kartel 's sons , Likkle Vybz and Likkle Addi . Vybz also confirmed that Sheba , Chronic Law , Tommy Lee , Shawn Storm , Gaza Indy and Lisa Hyper will appear on stage . <h> Expanding His Legacy With STR8 VYBZ Rum <p> Beyond an established legacy , Kartel is now proving that his name rings in boardrooms , too . The " Romping Shop " star leveraged his party-centric tunes for the launch of his premium rum line , STR8 VYBZ , in partnership with TJ Records and The House Of Angostura Bitters . Stepping into the alcohol business , STR8 VYBZ offers bold flavors with names inspired by his hit records , such as " Fever " and " Ramping Shop . " " STR8 VYBZ is more than just a rum ; it 's a movement . Each bottle embodies the energy and passion of my music , and the spirit of the culture I represent , " stated Vybz Kartel . Produced by Angostura Distillers in Trinidad and Tobago and distributed exclusively by Caribbean Producers Jamaica Ltd . ( CPJ ) , fans could get their hands on a bottle through select retailers across the Caribbean , the U.S. , and the U.K. <h> What Could 2025 Hold For Vybz Kartel ? <p> Although this final stretch of 2024 will be exceptionally busy for Vybz Kartel , we can only imagine what he has in store in the coming year . To see Vybz take home a Grammy would be nothing short of well-deserved , considering how understated his impact truly is in mainstream conversations . However , we also hope that the new year sees him releasing new music , specifically alongside former and new collaborators . It 's truly a new chapter in his career and we 're excited to see how 2025 shapes up for him . <p> Aron A. is a features editor for HotNewHipHop . Beginning his tenure at HotNewHipHop in July 2017 , he has comprehensively documented the biggest stories in the culture over the past few years . Throughout his time , Aron 's helped introduce a number of buzzing up-and-coming artists to our audience , identifying regional trends and highlighting hip-hop from across the globe . As a Canadian-based music journalist , he has also made a concerted effort to put spotlights on artists hailing from North of the border as part of Rise &amp;amp ; Grind , the weekly interview series that he created and launched in 2021 . Aron also broke a number of stories through his extensive interviews with beloved figures in the culture . These include industry vets ( Quality Control co-founder Kevin " Coach K " Lee , Wayno Clark ) , definitive producers ( DJ Paul , Hit-Boy , Zaytoven ) , cultural disruptors ( Soulja Boy ) , lyrical heavyweights ( Pusha T , Styles P , Danny Brown ) , cultural pioneers ( Dapper Dan , Big Daddy Kane ) , and the next generation of stars ( Lil Durk , Latto , Fivio Foreign , Denzel Curry ) . Aron also penned cover stories with the likes of Rick Ross , Central Cee , Moneybagg Yo , Vince Staples , and Bobby Shmurda.
