<h> ' We are all Jews here ! ' : Volunteering with Sar-El during Israel 's worst war <h> How many dead Jews will it take for the world to stand up and declare , " We are all Jews here " ? <p> By GINETTE WEINER DECEMBER 17 , 2024 19:03 <p> The scene where Israelis were killed by Hamas on a main road near the southern Israeli city of Sderot , October 7 , 2023 ( photo credit : JAMAL AWAD/FLASH90 ) <p> My three weeks of volunteering with Sar-El -- the National Project for Volunteers for Israel from December 31 , 2023 , to January 18 , 2024 , will stay with me forever . I will tell you what motivated me to go ; the response of the people I met ; what I think I may have contributed ; what I gained ; and why you should go . <p> The second I learned of Hamas 's attack on October 7 , I dropped everything and went to Israel , by myself , as did so many others . My husband , family , and friends understandably expressed concern about my safety . I told them that while I was n't looking to be in harm 's way , Israel was the only place to be because " Never again is now . " <p> At Sar-El , you experience every range of emotion , and some you did n't know you had . I met people from all over the world -- France , South Africa , the UK , Germany , New Zealand , Australia , many of whom were not Jewish but simply felt a need to help Israel . You work from Sunday to Thursday on tasks which help to relieve the IDF reservists . My first week involved packing medical kits ; second week , making food packages ; third week , sorting soldiers ' uniforms and sleeping bags . <p> As I was loading IV bags into a medical pouch , I asked the woman next to me what she does for a living . She said she had a PhD in pharmacology . I smiled and asked myself what country , other than Israel , can manage to get PhDs to drop everything , travel at their own expense , and load items for hours on a fast moving assembly line ! The medical pouches you pack are in a certain order -- i.e. , sutures first , then surgical scissors , etc . That is because a physician may be treating a wounded soldier in darkness and can therefore depend upon the order in the pouch to quickly reach for which instrument is needed.A group of Sar-El volunteers in 2019 ( credit : Courtesy ) <p> You meet before work for flag raising . A moment of silence is held for soldiers who were just killed . The ache you feel stays with you in a place you try to keep compartmentalized so that you can get on with it . But the ache never goes away fully . Nor should it . You will see the hustle and bustle of daily life in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem , people at the beach , shopping , going to work , and be humbled by the resilience of the Israelis while they carry the burdens and joys of being a Jew with dignity , courage , determination , and pride . <p> Lunch is a delicious buffet , in a large cafeteria with soldiers and other volunteers . I sat next to soldiers who were as eager to hear my thoughts as I was to hear theirs . Almost all began the conversation by telling me how much they appreciated my being a volunteer . I told them it is a privilege to be able to volunteer ; it is the least I could do . Some worried that Israel is becoming isolated in the world . A few asked if the majority of Americans still support Israel . They said that seeing the volunteers helps them to sustain hope for the future . I told them I have my own blog in The Times of Israel and am a regular contributor to The Jewish Voice newspaper in Brooklyn , New York , and have given talks for Israel . They were surprised and said how much hearing that meant to them . I wanted to help them feel they are not alone , that we support them . I hope I succeeded in this small way . When I went to shake their hands goodbye , I always got a big hug right after the handshake , which will stay with me forever . I met a soldier from Chechnya . I said , " You 're a long way from home . " He said , " This is my home . " I can still see each and every one of their faces . <p> On Wednesday evenings , the team gathers after dinner to express their thoughts and feelings about volunteering . I asked , and was given permission , to present a piece I wrote to our group . " I said , ' My story is our story . I am a retired social worker . My husband tells me that retired social workers are a dangerous lot -- always up to something ! " <h> " We are all Jews here " <p> My mother was a French Moroccan Jew in Casablanca during World War II . She met my father , who was a soldier . They fell in love . He sent for her to come to America as a war bride . She spoke French and Arabic . When Israel became a nation , her two sisters fled Casablanca . One went to Israel and the other to France . I was in Israel for the first time in 1969 . My cousin was a paratrooper in the Six Day War . In 2015 , I visited my 95-year-old uncle , Samuel , and aunt Juliette in their nursing home in France . The nursing home was guarded by French soldiers , as were all Jewish facilities at that time , which were under attack . Samuel 's entire family was killed in the Holocaust . During World War II , as a Jewish soldier in France , he fled to Morocco . In Casablanca he joined the Resistance , was captured and tortured , but he survived . And so this war hero , some 70 years later , required armed guards in order to survive , and all because ... he is a Jew . Today , we see young Israeli soldiers , with M-16 rifles slung over their shoulders , the dust still visible on their boots , who should be going to parties , planning their lives , but instead are forced to defend against Hamas 's threats of genocide , to be repeated again and again . <p> In 2014 , after Operation Protective Edge in Gaza , I heard the chants of " Jews to the gas chambers ; Hitler should have finished the job . " I told myself I had to do something . So I went , by myself , on HonestReporting 's 2015 Mission to Israel to learn techniques to combat media bias . And while there , at a dinner , I sat next to a young soldier . His best friend had been killed because they went house to house rather than conduct larger scale operations in Gaza to avoid civilian casualties , despite the greater risk to themselves . And for that they were still blamed . He asked me , his voice cracking with anguish , why the media blame Israel for defending itself . I had no words for him , other than to gently take his arm , and say , " If they sent all the Jews to Mars , they 'd still be blaming us for the world 's woes . " <p> Nothing changes . Today Israel is once again blamed for defending itself against Hamas 's butchery . <p> We need to pay homage to a soldier who defined bravery for all of us . In We Are All Jews Here , Lee Habeeb observes , " ' Courage , ' Aristotle wrote , ' is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees the others . ' And courage is precisely what was on display in a German prison camp over seven decades ago , when one brave American soldier did the unthinkable : Staring down the barrel of his Nazi captor 's pistol , he refused to identify which of his fellow prisoners of war were Jewish , declaring : " We are all Jews here ! " His act of defiance would save nearly 200 Jews and earn him , posthumously , the Righteous Among the Nations medal . Only five Americans have earned the distinction . Only one was a soldier . His name was Master Sergeant Roderick " Roddie " Edmonds . <p> In every town hall , at the US Congress , the Senate , every mayor , governor , every house of worship , every mosque , every church , in every nation , it is time for all to stand up and say , " We are all Jews here . " <p> Every Jew , everywhere , should take one action , each week , make one phone call , write one letter to combat the Big Lies echoed by mainstream media and hold their representatives , and their Jewish leaders , accountable.How many dead Jews will it take for the world to stand up and declare , " We are all Jews here " ? <p> When I said all this in my talk to Sar-El , I was met with applause , hugs , and was told how " inspiring " it was . Each person in turn told how moving it was to meet so many people who did n't know each other but instantly felt their commonality of purpose , making us feel like family . <p> Why you should go to Sar-El : I brought with me an exquisite silver mezuzah , thinking I would simply give it to a needy Israeli family who has suffered loss . A volunteer said she knew a soldier who was shot , still in the hospital recuperating , and how much this would mean to him . I try to imagine his face when receiving this random act of kindness and only hope it helped to make his burdens a little lighter for that moment . We are all feeling , at times , hopeless and helpless . Volunteering is one deeply symbiotic , meaningful way to do something concrete to help . Israelis need to see you , hear you , share with you , your support , your appreciation , your willingness to travel to Israel , and give of yourself . Become a volunteer to celebrate the truth and beauty of Israel with Israelis from all walks of life , from the soldiers , to store clerks , to your fellow volunteers from all over the world . <p> Our hearts , which were broken after the barbaric massacre , will never be entirely healed . Nothing will ever be the same . But your heart will be made warm again , your resolve fortified with a renewed sense of purpose and meaning . Go . You will have the journey of a lifetime that you will take home with you in your heart . A part of me is still in Israel . And will always be . ? <p> Ginette Weiner is a published commentator in Jewish and mainstream newspapers , and lecturer on strategies for combating media bias , antisemitism , and BDS . She has an MSW . She resides in Arizona and returned to Israel in November to volunteer again . <p> For information on volunteering for Sar-El , go to https : //www.sar-el.org/.
