<p> The comments section is closed . To submit a letter to the editor for publication , write to letters@nytimes.com . <p> This is an intercontinental ballisticmissile the U.S. Air Force is launchingoff the shores of California . <p> This is an **25;2261;TOOLONG missile the U.S.Air Force is launching off theshores of California . <p> The missile does n't carry a nuclearwarhead -- it 's just a test . <p> The missile doesn'tcarry a nuclear warhead -- it 's just a test . <p> In 30 minutes , it will hit a target in theocean over 4,000 miles away . <p> In 30 minutes , it will hita target in the ocean over4,000 miles away . <p> On Jan. 20 , Donald Trump will regaincontrol of these weapons . <p> On Jan. 20 , Donald Trump will regain control of these weapons . <p> And he 's getting them at a veryvolatile time in history . <p> And he 's getting them at a very volatile time in history . <p> OpinionThe Editorial Board <h> ThePresident'sArsenal <p> By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board is a group of opinion journalists whose views are informed by expertise , research , debate and certain longstanding values . It is separate from the newsroom . <p> In the United States , only the president can decide whether to use nuclear weapons . It 's an extraordinary instance in which Mr. Trump 's decision-making power will be absolute . He will not need to consult Congress , the courts or senior advisers on when or how to use them . He will have a free hand to craft our nation 's nuclear posture , policy and diplomacy . <p> On the campaign trail , Mr. Trump commented on the peril posed by the rest of the world 's growing nuclear arsenals . His return to the White House offers new opportunities for him to steer America clear of those threats . His administration will need to act urgently and with creativity , all while also demonstrating the understanding that nuclear weapons are too dangerous to be brandished as a cudgel . <p> This article is part of the Opinion series At the Brink , about the threat of nuclear weapons in an unstable world . Read the opening story here . <p> This article is part ofthe Opinion series At the Brink , about the threat of nuclearweapons in an unstable world.Read the opening story here . <p> The leaders of China , Russia and the United States are in the midst of a new great-power competition , a global struggle for military , economic and geopolitical dominance . But not all aspects of this contest are zero-sum , especially in nuclear weapons matters . There are ample opportunities for all sides to improve their own national security conditions by staving off a costly arms race and dangerous confrontation . <p> Most Americans have never seen -- or perhaps even contemplated -- what it takes to be ready for nuclear conflict . Times Opinion gained rare , up-close access this summer to film what this looks like in the United States . Observing the missile launch procedures provided a glimpse at the inner workings of a warfighting machine that should never be set in motion . <p> Approximately three times each year , the U.S.Air Force performs this intricate test . <p> Approximately three times eachyear , the U.S. Air Force performsthis intricate test . <p> Service members pull a missile from anunderground silo in the Great Plains . <p> Service members pull amissile from an undergroundsilo in the Great Plains . <p> The missile is stripped of its nuclear payload andshipped to Vandenberg Space Force Base . <p> The missile is stripped of itsnuclear payload and shipped toVandenberg Space Force Base . <p> Other nuclear nations conduct tests like theseon a routine basis . <p> Other nuclear nations conducttests like these on a routine basis . <p> The global nuclear balance is more tenuous in 2024 than it has been in decades . <p> " Tomorrow , we could have a war that will be so devastating that you could never recover from it , " Mr. Trump said in June . " Nobody can . The whole world wo n't be able to recover from it . " <p> The last remaining major bilateral accord limiting the United States ' and Russia 's arsenals , New START , expires in just 14 months . And Russian leaders have rejected the Biden administration 's offers to discuss a new nuclear arms control framework , which follows the dismantling of other accords meant to lessen the risk of conflict . We are on the precipice of living in a world that has no restraints on how many nuclear weapons are deployed . <p> President Vladimir Putin of Russia continues to raise the specter ofescalating his war on Ukraine to nuclear use . India and Pakistan have an estimated 170 nuclear weapons each but are expanding their arsenals . U.S. intelligence believes China plans to double by 2030 the size of its stockpile of an estimated 500 warheads , as it continues the most ambitious expansion and diversification of its weaponry in its history . North Korea has developed missiles designed to strike America . The war in Gaza threatens to expand into a wider regional conflict ; Israel already has nuclear weapons and Iran is moving closer to building a bomb , risking a proliferation cascade throughout the Middle East . <p> The nuclear risk is n't found only among America 's adversaries . Allies without nuclear aims are now seriously discussing whether they also need nuclear capability . The recently impeached South Korean president , Yoon Suk-yeol , hasraised the possibility of building a bomb , andpolls have shown that 70 percent of Koreans think the country should . If South Korea proceeds , experts assume Japan will as well . Germany is debating whether it should develop its own nuclear program , and Poland hassought a more active role in NATO 's nuclear sharing . Ukraine 's leader , President Volodymyr Zelensky , has made his nation 's need for a nuclear weapon clear if the country is n't granted NATO membership . <p> If Mr. Trump is serious about truly making America great again , this is one critical issue where he can make his mark . The United States spent the second half of the 20th century and into the next with a single stated goal when it came to nuclear weapons : to make the world safer from them . After its devastating bombings ofHiroshima and Nagasaki , this aim was not a given -- in the first several decades of the Cold War , the United States and the Soviet Union amassed nuclear arsenals large enough to destroy the human race many times over . By the early 1960s , the Americans and Soviets appeared to be on a collision course toward nuclear war , armed with the most dangerous technology man has ever produced . <p> The Cuban Missile Crisis put both countries on a new path . In 1963 , the superpowers agreed to the first treaty on nuclear testing . By 1968 , many nations of the world had agreed in the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to a grand bargain : In exchange for nonnuclear states forgoing such weapons , the nuclear states would work to get rid of theirs . Facing ever more public pressure , American leaders and diplomats would spend the next five decades leading the effort to set limits on the number of nuclear warheads deployed , as well as establish transparency and clear lines of communication . Shrinking the nuclear arsenal became a bipartisan , generational effort . <p> Today , nearly all of that work has unraveled . <p> It ca n't be ignored that in his first term , Mr. Trump played a significant role in fostering at least some of the risk the world now faces . Yet , given the changed landscape , the United States will have no choice but to lead -- something that , based on his campaign rhetoric , Mr. Trump appears to embrace . <p> In the past , Mr. Trump has said that he first appreciated the true danger of nuclear weapons after talking to an unlikely source : his uncle , an M.I.T. professor . In 1986 , when he was still principally a New York real estate developer , Mr. Trump reached out to the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War , which had just received a Nobel Peace Prize for its disarmament work . He hoped to arrange negotiations with the Soviets to lower the nuclear threat . <p> Now it will be the job of President Trump to pull the world back from the brink . It 's time to discuss what he and the United States should prioritize . <p> I. <h> America Should <p> RENEW ARMSCONTROL TALKS <p> Visiting Hiroshima in 2016 , President Barack Obama was optimistic enough to call on nations that possessed nuclear weapons to " have the courage to escape the logic of fear and pursue a world without them . " <p> Abolition is something the United States has not seriously considered -- and can not now afford to consider . With China 's unprecedented nuclear buildup underway , the world faces , for the first time , the reality of not just two but three nuclear superpowers . The bipolar strategic balance of the Cold War no longer holds . American diplomats have no choice but to figure out how to restart sustained arms control negotiations and lay the groundwork forfuture generations to complete the job of nuclear disarmament . <p> America 's tests provide the military with freshdata on how its personnel and aging weaponssystems perform in a real-world scenario . <p> Air Force officers work every day on 24-hourshifts in underground bunkers , awaitingthe signal to launch if the president ever givesthe order . <p> Air Force officers work everyday on 24-hour shifts inunderground bunkers , awaitingthe signal to launch if thepresident ever gives the order . <p> The tests also send an unmistakable messageto America 's adversaries that the nuclear arsenalis ready if that command ever comes . <p> The tests also send anunmistakable message toAmerica 's adversariesthat the nuclear arsenal isready if that commandever comes . <p> Mr. Trump 's first administration refused to sign on to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons , in keeping with other nuclear nations ' stance on the ban . It also unilaterally withdrew the United States from the Iran nuclear deal , the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty and the Open Skies Treaty . But Mr. Trump did demonstrate an ambitious willingness to sit down with Kim Jong-un of North Korea , even though those talks ultimately went nowhere . <p> He has a chance now to atone for past mistakes . Masoud Pezeshkian , the new president of Iran , has signaled a willingness to restart serious nuclear negotiations with the West . <p> Mr. Trump 's campaign trumpeted his withdrawal from the previous deal , but in September , the candidate told reporters that he may be open to new talks . Asreported in Politico , when asked about it , Mr. Trump said : " We have to make a deal , because the consequences are impossible . We have to make a deal . " <p> Mr. Trump , to his credit , grasps the dangers here . Perhaps he can also use some of his influence with President Putin to come to terms on the issue . Here again , some of his campaign rhetoric offers a glimpse of hope . Referring to Mr. Putin , Mr. Trump said in 2023 , " He goes , ' You know , we 're a great nuclear power . ' He says that publicly now . " Mr. Trump added , falsely : " He never said that when I was here . Because you do n't talk about it . It 's too destructive . You do n't talk about it . Now they 're talking about it all the time . " <p> To entice China to the table , Mr. Trump could express an openness to declare that the United States would not be the first to use nuclear weapons . The president-elect has shown a willingness to engage , inviting China 's leader , Xi Jinping , to his January inauguration . <p> China has spent the past yearsignaling the importance of this issue as a necessary requirement for it to move forward in meaningful nuclear talks . <p> A willingness to engage on a blanket no-first-use policy may ease tensions and provide a foothold for more ambitious discussions . <p> II . <h> America Should <p> ENSURE NUCLEAR TESTING <p> BANS STAY PUT <p> While the military still regularly tests the intercontinental ballistic missiles that would deliver a nuclear strike , it has n't conducted an explosive underground test of the warheads themselves in more than three decades . <p> A moratorium on testing nuclear weapons has also held in China and Russia . There are growing fears this could soon change , as all three nations update and expand the infrastructure and sites needed to test nuclear weapons , according to commercial satellite imagery by Planet Labs PBC . The photos , analyzed by the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies , show each nation is adding buildings , cutting roads and boring tunnels -- construction that many fear could presage live explosions . <p> A nuclear weapon does n't need to be used in war to have lasting impact . More than 2,000 such weapons were tested during the 20th century , spreading fallout that still affectshuman beings , public health and the environment . That , in part , is why the United States , along with every other country with nuclear weapons , except North Korea , has voluntarily observed a testing moratorium since the 1990s . The next Trump administration should work to make sure it remains in effect . <p> The conservative manifesto Project 2025 , published by the Heritage Foundation , specifically calls for preparing the nuclear testing site in Nevada for a new generation of tests , which -- unlike the tests at Vandenberg -- involve detonating actual nuclear explosives . Last summer , in the journal Foreign Affairs , Mr. Trump 's former national security adviser Robert O'Brienwrote that " the United States has to maintain technical and numerical superiority to the combined Chinese and Russian nuclear stockpiles . To do so , Washington must test new nuclear weapons for reliability and safety in the real world for the first time since 1992 -- not just by using computer models . " Given this logic , Russia and China would be justified in thinking the same . <p> Mr. Trump 's campaign distanced itself from both Project 2025 and Mr. O'Brien 's comments , and Mr. O'Brien has not yet been tapped to join the next administration . <p> While there is no nuclear warhead in thismissile , the military still must clear the surrounding airspace and stretch of oceanfor safety . <p> While there is no nuclearwarhead in this missile , themilitary still must clear thesurrounding airspace andstretch of ocean for safety . <p> If a part fails or the missile veers off courseduring flight , the military will destroy it byremotely detonating onboard explosives . <p> If a part fails or the missileveers off course during flight , the military will destroyit by remotely detonatingonboard explosives . <p> Data from the missile streams into the AirForce 's encrypted computer system inside thelaunch monitoring center . <p> Data from the missile streamsinto the Air Force 's encryptedcomputer system insidethe launch monitoring center . <p> If Mr. Trump decides the United States should resume nuclear explosive testing , China and Russia will almost surely follow suit . Mr. Putin has already threatened as much . Emerging nuclear powers , such as Iran , would also presumably feel no restraint on carrying out their own tests . <p> On top of all this , it makes no strategic sense . Starting to test again now would erode the huge scientific advantage the United States enjoys today . The U.S. government has conducted more than 1,000 known nuclear detonations -- more than China and the Soviet Union combined . Data from those tests , combined with our unparalleled computing power , has allowed America to maintain and improve its arsenal in a way that its rivals ca n't . <p> III . <h> America Should <p> REVIEW U.S. SPENDING <p> The United States , Russia and China are now feverishly overhauling their nuclear arsenals in sweeping multibillion-dollar efforts that the federal government benignly calls " modernizing . " The Pentagon plans to update the nuclear arsenal over the next 30 years , including the missiles , bomber jets , submarines and warheads , at nearly $2 trillion . <p> Mr. Trump could roll back some of that effort . Why must the U.S. military replace all of its weapons in one go ? Hundreds of millions of dollars could be saved simply by buying fewer of them . Even if Mr. Trump does n't want to cancel anything , he could at least give himself the political space to rethink such investments by appointing a commission to examine the full range and progress of the modernization plans , which are already over-budget and behind schedule . <p> The cost of this one test launch : $18 million . Ittakes about 200 service members to carry it out . <p> The cost of this one testlaunch : $18 million . It takesabout 200 service membersto carry it out . <p> Project 2025 , however , rejects congressional efforts to find more cost-effective alternatives to the current plans , calling instead for a nuclear escalation that could rival President Ronald Reagan 's at the height of the Cold War . <p> While Mr. Trump may have distanced himself from Project 2025 on the campaign trail , Christopher Miller , a former U.S. Army Special Forces colonel who served as his acting defense secretary , was the lead author of its 42-page chapter on defense . Some other alarming proposals include that the second Trump White House prioritize nuclear weapons ; develop nuclear-armed , sea-launched cruise missiles , which were withdrawn in the early 1990s ; and continue a Biden-era effort to develop a sweeping , untested " cruise missile defense of the homeland " -- all of which would require a significant budget increase to bankroll . <p> Mr. Trump has often condemned the hawkish attitudes of other conservatives . This is the time for him to show that he believes nuclear escalation is a bad idea . It 's taken some political courage for Mr. Trump to stake out an independent path from Republican orthodoxy on war-and-peace issues , and this is a chance to put his own views into action . <p> IV . <h> America Should <p> END SOLE AUTHORITY <p> President Trump will command about3,700 weapons that healone is empowered to launch . Any decision responding to an incoming nuclear attack on the United States would have to be made within as little as 15 minutes . <p> It is concern over any precipitous action that led Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts and Representative Ted Lieu of California , both Democrats , last year to propose legislation to prohibit any president from launching a first-strike nuclear weapon without congressional approval . <p> Although it is unlikely to be taken up by this Republican-led Congress , the bill would not undercut Mr. Trump 's ability to respond to a nuclear attack , an authority all presidents have had and should have . <p> Agreeing that a pre-emptive nuclear strike should also be endorsed by Congress would be a signal to the world that the United States is serious about limiting nuclear brinkmanship -- that disputes among nations should not turn on impulsive nuclear threats of the type that Mr. Putin regularly issues . Mr. Trump would n't be weakening himself . He 'd be showing the world that he rejects hollow threats . <p> Fire and exhaust light up thefoggy coastline as theMinuteman III missile traces anarc across the Pacific . <p> Roughly a half-hour later , a dummy warheadfalls away , re-entering the Earth 's atmosphere ata blistering four miles per second . <p> Roughly a half-hour later , a dummy warhead falls away , re-entering the Earth'satmosphere at a blisteringfour miles per second . <p> It strikes the target area -- a lagoon in the middleof the Marshall Islands ' Kwajalein Atoll -- like alightning bolt . <p> It strikes the target area -- alagoon in the middle of the Marshall Islands ' KwajaleinAtoll -- like a lightning bolt . <p> Data from this exercise in June will help U.S.commanders fine-tune future tests scheduledunder the next Trump administration . <p> Data from this exercise in Junewill help U.S. commanders fine-tune future tests scheduled underthe next Trump administration . <p> One paradox of the nuclear age is that it has often been the most bellicose leaders who become the most committed -- and who are the most effective -- at securing arms control deals and shrinking global stockpiles . Dwight Eisenhower , who led the allied war effort against the Nazis , came to warn against the military-industrial complex . Nikita Khrushchev and John F. Kennedy were swaggering brinksmen until they brought the world close to annihilation . Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev each came to see that nuclear weapons were vastly more dangerous in an unstable world . <p> Donald Trump ran a campaign of peace through strength . Time will tell if he can deliver what he promised . But all Americans should rejoice if Mr. Trump leaves the world a safer place from nuclear weapons than it was when he took office for the second time . <p> The editorial board is a group of opinion journalists whose views are informed by expertise , research , debate and certain longstanding values . It is separate from the newsroom .
