<h> Visionary individuals on both sides of the political divide must come together to propose a pardon for Netanyahu in exchange for retirement from public life . <p> Back on May 26 , 2020 , when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave his opening statement at the commencement of his criminal trial in Jerusalem , we wrote that he " managed to shift the focus ... away from the image of a prime minister on trial to the image of a prime minister being lynched by a crooked system out to get him . " <p> Now , four-and-a-half years later , amid the marathon trial that has heard dozens of witnesses , has experienced numerous delays , and has taken place through both the judicial reform upheaval and more than a year of war in Gaza and Lebanon , Netanyahu has finally taken the witness stand as he mounts his defense . <p> Like his opening statements , his strategy has been to emphasize his importance to the country and minimize the " trumped-up " charges against him . The trial has taken on the trappings of a circus , with urgent notes being passed to the prime minister from his aides , controversy from both supporters and detractors over the court ruling that Netanyahu would be testifying three times a week , and a nation 's eyes on every nuance emanating from defendant No. 1 on the witness stand . <p> The spectacle could be something that is taken in stride -- even applauded -- for the ethos that nobody is above the law -- if it were n't for the state of the country . <p> We are in the midst of a 14-month all-consuming war that has seen thousands of Israelis killed , 100 hostages still unaccounted for who are languishing in Gaza , and major regional upheavals to Israel 's North -- not to mention the myriad of internal issues that must be addressed . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu arrives at the District Court in Tel Aviv , December 16 , 2024 ( credit : YOSSI ZELIGER/FLASH90 ) <h> Clemency for all <p> Put it all together , and it seems a bit surreal for the trial to take up any bandwidth of the country 's attention . But , it does . This is why it behooves us to revisit President Isaac Herzog 's remarks last week at a conference hosted by the Makor Rishon newspaper . <p> When asked : " Do you think the time will come for clemency -- not just for Netanyahu , but for all citizens of Israel ? " Herzog replied , " I believe it is our duty to uphold the rule of law , and no one is above it . <p> " That said , it was not a happy day to see the prime minister in court , and I believe every citizen should feel that way . I wo n't comment on the specifics of the trial itself . I will always exercise my powers according to my conscience and the law . But for now , clemency is not on the table . " <p> What was left unsaid , but implied , was that if a proposal was made to pardon Netanyahu of the charges against him in exchange for retirement from public life , this was something the president would consider . <p> The idea of a presidential pardon has been floated since Netanyahu was first indicted in 2019 . Back in 2022 , The Jerusalem Post 's then-editor-in-chief Yaakov Katz wrote , " There is no good outcome for Israel 's criminal justice system in this trial . If Netanyahu is found guilty , his followers will continue to stand by him . They will now claim -- as he has since the police investigation began -- that the case was rigged from the outset . <p> " On the other hand , if Netanyahu is acquitted of the charges against him ... Israel will find itself in a constitutional and legal crisis never seen before . With no trust in the courts , there will be little trust in the rule of law , " according to Katz . <p> Dragging the country through a drawn out trial has not been healthy , and the outcome -- whether Netanyahu is acquitted or convicted -- will be fraught with dissent . Just as importantly , Israel needs a full-time prime minister focused solely on the country 's critical issues . <p> Now is the time for visionary individuals on both sides of the political divide to come together and officially propose a pardon for Netanyahu in exchange for his withdrawal from public life . <p> Netanyahu , who has accomplished so much in his career -- and has done so much to build Israel and promote its cause -- can save his legacy , and spare the country the distraction of an ongoing trial that takes the focus away from the vital issues . <p> We 're facing many more months of testimony from Netanyahu , who will be incapacitated for much of the week . And in the likelihood of a conviction at the end of the trial , the country will revisit the shame of yet another prime minister being sentenced and sent to prison . <p> Israel can not afford either right now . So where are the cool heads that can see beyond partisanship and go to the president with a plan to get us beyond this crisis ? Are they out there ?
