<h> The Three Lives of Cate Kay , Kate Fagan ( Jan. 7 ) <p> Best-selling author and sports journalist Kate Fagan 's debut novel is framed as an unreleased memoir from a pseudonymous queer writer who has spent her life running from her complicated past . After Cate Kay 's successful book series is optioned for film , she realizes she can no longer hide her true identity . With help from her former friends and lovers , she tells the unvarnished story of her rise to the top and what she sacrificed to get there . <h> How to Sleep at Night , Elizabeth Harris ( Jan. 7 ) <p> In journalist Elizabeth Harris ' debut , Ethan and Gabe are a loving New Jersey couple who find themselves slowly drifting apart due to their growing political differences . When Ethan decides to run for Congress as a Republican , his progressive partner is forced to choose between his leftist ideals and his upwardly mobile spouse . Across town , Nicole , a free-spirited artist turned suburban mom , is facing a similar conundrum in her marriage . It 's only when a former flame -- Ethan 's journalist sister -- reenters Nicole 's life that she begins to reconsider her desires in this domestic drama about love , marriage , and ambition . <h> Onyx Storm , Rebecca Yarros ( Jan. 21 ) <p> Onyx Storm , the third book in Rebecca Yarros ' wildly popular Empyrean series , picks up as Violet Sorrengail , a small but mighty dragon rider , prepares for war against the Venin , a species of human who have sacrificed their souls to steal power from the land.After more than a year at Basgiath War College , Violet realizes that support for the Venin , a.k.a. the Dark Wielders , does not only lie beyond the walls of the competitive military school , but also within its ranks . Unsure of who to trust , Violet embarks on a fantastical journey to find allies who can help her hone her emerging powers , which may ultimately be the key to winning this battle for supremacy . <h> We Do Not Part , Han Kang ( Jan. 21 ) <p> Nobel Prize-winner Han Kang 's We Do Not Part , newly translated from the original Korean by e. yaewon and Paige Aniyah Morris , delves into a tragic chapter of modern Korean history . After an injury lands Inseon in the hospital , she asks her friend Kyungha to do what seems like a simple favor : go to her home on Jeju Island and care for her beloved pet bird . But once Kyungha gets there , she is forced to grapple with the devastating effects of the Jeju Uprising on her country and its people . Kang 's novel is a haunting exploration of friendship amid historical trauma . <p> Black in Blues is an intimate meditation on the color blue and its connection to Black history and culture . Beginning with the production of indigo dye in the 16th century , a product that was often traded for an enslaved person , National Book Award winner Imani Perry traces the history of the hue while ruminating on how its many shades ( cobalt , periwinkle , navy ) became intertwined with Black identity . <h> Isola , Allegra Goodman ( Feb. 4 ) <p> When a 16th-century French noblewomanand her lover are left stranded on a small island by her volatile guardian , they must find a way to survive the winter cold with next to nothing . Inspired by the true story of Marguerite de La Rocque , Allegra Goodman 's latest novel is a feminist castaway tale about love , faith , and self-actualization . <h> Three Days in June , Anne Tyler ( Feb. 11 ) <p> Nothing seems to be going right for Gail Baines at the start of Pulitzer Prize winner Anne Tyler 's 25th novel , Three Days in June . The day before her daughter 's wedding , Gail loses her job , discovers she did n't get an invite to festivities organized by the groom 's mom , and gets stuck rooming with her ex-husband and a depressed cat . But that 's not the worst of it : her daughter just discovered a shocking secret about the man she is about to marry , putting their big day in jeopardy . In this charming marriage story , the revelation throws Gail back to the unresolved issues surrounding her divorce -- and she 's finally forced to reckon with its repercussions . <h> Crush , Ada Calhoun ( Feb. 25 ) <p> Taking a page from Nora Ephron 's Heartburn , writer Ada Calhoun 's debut novel , Crush , inspired by her own experience , looks at a marriage on the verge of collapse . After her husband suggests they open up their relationship , a happily married middle-aged wife and mother finds herself pursuing an emotional affair with a friend from college . As things heat up , she is forced to interrogate what it isshe wants and needs from a romantic partner . <h> Death Takes Me , Cristina Rivera Garza ( Feb. 25 ) <p> Death Takes Me puts a subversive twist on the traditional serial killer story . Cristina Rivera Garza 's 2007 novel , newly translated from the original Spanish by Robin Myers and Sarah Booker , begins with a literature professor also named Cristina findingthe body of a castratedman while jogging . After looking through the crime scene photos , she discovers a message written in coral-colored nail polish next to the corpse , lines of poetry from the late Argentine poet Alejandra Pizarnik , who Cristina has studied for years . When Pizarnik 's work starts showing up at similar crime scenes , Cristina is enlisted to help catch the murderer before the mysterious killer catches her first . <p> Award-winning novelist Omar El Akkad 's nonfiction debut , One Day , Everyone Will Have Always Been Against This , reckons with what it really means to be an American right now . After 20 years of working as a journalist , covering the War on Terror , the Black Lives Matter protests , and the growing death toll in Gaza , the Egyptian-Canadian writer , who now lives in the U.S. , has been disheartened by the lack of compassion and empathy he 's seen from his adopted country . With his new book , he tries to make sense of how the promise of the American dream has become such a nightmare . <h> The Talent , Daniel D'Addario ( Feb. 25 ) <p> With his debut novel , Variety 's chief correspondent and former TIME TV critic Daniel D'Addario shows why it 's not always an honor just to be nominated . The Talent follows a group of actresses on the awards-show trail during an especially fraught season . The five women -- the grande dame , the ing ? nue , the great thespian , the long shot , and the former child star -- must confront their rivalries , anxieties , and insecurities if they wish to take home a little gold man on Hollywood 's biggest night . <h> The Dream Hotel , Laila Lalami ( March 4 ) <p> Laila Lalami 's fifth novel , The Dream Hotel , is set in a near future where everything , including one 's dreams , is under surveillance . When museum archivist Sara returns to Los Angeles after a conference abroad , she is detained for a crime that , based on data from her dreams , she will commit in the future against her husband . To stop this from ever happening , she is taken to a retention center where she finds other women who are being held captive for crimes they have yet to commit . In this paranoid techno -- thriller , Sara must prove her dreams are not a reality in order to escape . <h> All the Other Mothers Hate Me , Sarah Harman ( March 11 ) <p> Former broadcast journalist Sarah Harman 's debut thriller , All the Other Mothers Hate Me , looks at the mysterious case of a missing boy who happens to be the heir to a frozen food empire . When 10-year-old Alfie Risby goes missing during a class trip , everyone starts pointing fingers . The boy 's rich parents land on former party girl and disgraced girl-band member Florence Grimes ' son , Dylan , who was mercilessly bullied by Alfie . Now Florence must do the unthinkable : make nice with the other school moms in order to clear her kid 's name . Another reason to get excited about this book ? It 's being adapted for TV by The Bear creator Christopher Storer . <h> The Antidote , Karen Russell ( March 11 ) <p> Karen Russell , the best-selling author of Swamplandia ! , returns with her long-awaited second novel , The Antidote , a historical epic set during the Dust Bowl era . After a severe dust storm ravages a small Nebraska town in 1939 , five locals -- a Polish wheat farmer , his orphan niece , an enchanted New Deal photographer , a chatty scarecrow , and a " Prairie Witch , " whose body stores the memories the settlers wish to forget -- find themselves struggling to rebuild . What the community soon realizes is that in order to create a more sustainable future , they must first reckon with the mistakes of their violent past . <h> Goddess Complex , Sanjena Sathian ( March 11 ) <p> To have a baby or not to have a baby , that is the question at the centerof Sanjena Sathian 's satirical second novel , Goddess Complex . After leaving her struggling actor husband over a disagreement about whether or not they should have children , Sanjana Satyananda is looking to move forward with her life and the anthropology dissertation she abandoned years earlier . But first , she must finalize their divorce . When her ex suddenly goes missing , Sanjana embarks on a phantasmagoric journey to find him that offers her a glimpse of what her life would be like if she did become a parent . <h> Stag Dance : A Novel &amp; Stories , Torrey Peters ( March 11 ) <p> Stag Dance , Torrey Peters ' follow-up to her best-selling 2021debut , Detransition , Baby , is a collection of one novel and three storiesthat offers a provocative look at gender rediscovery and indecision . The titular novel focuses on a group of male lumberjacks who decide to throw a dance partyin which some of the workers volunteer to attend as women , leading to an unlikely rivalry . The short stories look at a secret romance between a junior and his femme roommate at a Quaker boarding school , a hormonal apocalypse brought on by a vengeful ex-girlfriend , and a young person 's dark night of the soul while partying in Las Vegas . <h> Tilt , Emma Pattee ( March 25 ) <p> Climate journalist Emma Pattee 's debut novel , Tilt , is a natural disaster adventure set over the course of 24 hours . After a massive earthquake leaves a nine-months pregnant woman stranded at an IKEA in the middle of Portland , Ore. , she decides to walk back to her home , which is located on the other side of the disaster zone . Along the way , she witnesses a grocery store riot , makes friends with a young mother , and reflects on her struggling marriage , disappointing career , and anxieties surrounding impending motherhood . <h> Audition , Katie Kitamura ( April 8 ) <p> Intimaciesauthor Katie Kitamura 's tense new novel , Audition , begins with a Manhattan lunch date between an accomplished theater actor and a troubled man who is young enough to be her son . The twists and turns of this destabilizing novel , which unspools the competing narratives of the aforementioned characters , will leave readers wondering what is real and what is performance . <h> Authority , Andrea Long Chu ( April 8 ) <p> With her essay collection , Authority , Andrea Long Chu interrogates what makes a true expert in a world where everyone thinks they know everything . Across more than 20 pieces , most of which were previously published between 2018 and 2023 , the Pulitzer Prize-winning critic often turns her discerning eye toward the arts , tackling topics that include The Phantom of the Opera 's place in the musical canon , A Little Lifeauthor Hanya Yanagihara 's writerly motivations , and whether a video game adaptation can ever be considered prestige TV . <p> Philanthropist Melinda French Gates ' latestbook , The Next Day , encourages you to embrace life 's changes -- and she 's speaking as someone with a lot of experience in this department . Over the last four years , French Gates has gone through a series of personal and professional changes that have forced her to rethink her future , telling TIMEin June , " I feel like , Wow , I 'm 60 . I better surround myself with people and still travel so that I 'm still absolutely learning , because the world is moving , the world is changing . " With her newest memoir , she promises to offer a " rare window " into some of the most transformational moments of her life , including becoming a parent , the loss of a dear friend , and her recent departure fromthe charitable foundation she started with ex-husband Bill Gates . <h> Accidentally on Purpose , Kristen Kish ( April 22 ) <p> With her debut memoir , Top Chefseason 10 winner turned host Kristen Kish recalls her rise to culinary fame . In Accidentally on Purpose , she writes about her earliest days in the kitchen and shares behind-the-scenes stories of her reality show experience . Kish also delves into her Midwest childhood as a Korean adoptee and what it meant to come out as an adult , sharing the unexpected challenges and happy accidents that helped her find her true calling . <h> Matriarch : A Memoir , Tina Knowles ( April 22 ) <p> Matriarch offers Beyonc ? and Solange 's mom a chance to finally tell her story . In her debut memoir , Tina Knowles writes about raising two superstar daughters , but also details her own humble beginnings growing up the youngest of seven in 1950s Galveston , Texas . A talented seamstress and hairstylist , Knowles ( born Celestine Ann Beyonc ? ) longed to change the world through her art.In the book , she shares the creative risks , all-encompassing romances , and parenting lessons that helped her become one of the most famous moms in the world . <h> Zeal , Morgan Jerkins ( April 22 ) <p> Four years after the release of her fiction debut , Caul Baby , best-selling authorMorgan Jerkins returns with her second novel , Zeal , a multigenerationalromance that spans more than 150 years . In 2019 Harlem , Oliver and Ardelia throw a party to celebrate their engagement . Before it ends , Oliver hands his fianc ? e a love letter written in 1865 by a soldier who , after being discharged from the Union Army as a free man , returned home to Mississippi in hopes of reconnecting with the woman he loved . The centuries-old note will forever change the way the couple sees their love story . <h> Strangers in the Land : Exclusion , Belonging , and the Epic Story of the Chinese in America , Michael Luo ( April 29 ) <p> New Yorker executive editor Michael Luo 's first book covers the history of Chinese exclusion in America . Across nearly 600 pages , Strangers in the Land traces how the welcomed arrival of Chinese immigrants to the U.S. in the mid-19th century quickly turned violent , resulting in the passing of a series of exclusionary laws in 1889 . ( The title is taken from a direct quote from Supreme Court Justice Stephen Johnson Field 's majority opinion in the case , which marked the first time the U.S. barred a people from immigrating based on their race . ) Luo follows the trajectory of the Asian American community up until the present day , sharing how his own Taiwanese family was impacted by a disgraceful chapter in U.S. history . <h> The Manor of Dreams , Christina Li ( May 6 ) <p> YA author Christina Li 's adult literary debut , The Manor of Dreams , is a modern gothic tale about the battle over a trailblazing 1980s star 's crumbling mansion . Following Vivian Yin 's death , her daughters find themselves fighting an estranged mystery relative for the deed to their reclusive mom 's sprawling estate . Things only get worse once the warring factions decide to move into the dilapidated home together . Once inside , they discover that the manor hides terrible secrets that it 's hellbent on keeping . <h> Second Life : Having a Child in the Digital Age , Amanda Hess ( May 6 ) <p> With her first memoir , Second Life , New York Times critic at large Amanda Hess explores what it 's like to raise a child in our tech-saturated culture . Using her own experience as a first-time mom , she explores the advantages and drawbacks to having answers to every possible parenting question at your fingertips . And she offers a deep dive into the surreal network of prenatal genetic tests , gender reveal videos , and " freebirth influencers " that are shaping a new generation of chronically online caretakers . <h> The Emperor of Gladness , Ocean Vuong ( May 13 ) <p> Poet and essayist Ocean Vuong 's third novel , The Emperor of Gladness , is a big-hearted ode to second chances . After Grazina , an elderly widow with early-stage dementia , saves Hai from taking his own life , the teenager becomes her caregiver . The unlikely pair form an unexpected friendship that changes Hai 's life in ways he could never imagine . <h> Run for the Hills , Kevin Wilson ( May 13 ) <p> The latest novel from Kevin Wilson , the best-selling author of Nothing to See Here , centers around an unusual family road trip . Twenty years after her father left , never to be heard from again , Madeline " Mad " Hill meets Reuben , a 40-something stranger who claims to be her older half-brother . After hiring a private investigator to track down their absentee dad and other half-siblings , Reuben is hitting the road to confront the man who abandoned them and wants Madeline to come with . Once she says yes , she finds herself on an unbelievable adventure that will force her to question the true meaning of family . <h> Atmosphere : A Love Story , Taylor Jenkins Reid ( June 3 ) <p> With her new novel , Taylor Jenkins Reid , the best-selling author behind Daisy Jones and the Six and The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo , heads to space . Set in the 1980s , Atmosphere follows physics professor Joan Goodwin as she attempts to become one of the first women to join NASA 's Space Shuttle Program . Amid her training , Joan finds herself falling for another recruit . When a terrifying incident on mission STS-LR9 puts the lives of her colleagues -- including her love -- on the line , Joan must find a way to bring the crew home safely . <h> The Catch , Yrsa Daley-Ward ( June 3 ) <p> In poet and writerYrsa Daley-Ward 's fiction debut , The Catch , twin sisters Clara and Dempsey have been all but estranged since their mother vanished in the River Thames . When Clara , now a famous author , spots a woman on the streets of London who looks exactly like their mom did the day she disappeared , she enlists her isolated sibling 's help in figuring out the true identity of this mystery woman . To do this , the two will have to finally confront their shared past . The book promises to be a thrilling exploration of the sacrifices women are forced to make for their families . <h> The Dry Season : A Memoir of Pleasure in a Year Without Sex , Melissa Febos ( June 3 ) <p> Around 2016 , best-selling author Melissa Febos swore off sex for a year . Now , with her fifth memoir , The Dry Season , she 's sharing what she learned from that experience . Mixing personal narrative with cultural criticism , the author of Girlhood explores how celibacy radicalized her , giving her permission to put all of her focus on herself , her work , and the platonic relationships that deserved more of her attention . <h> Flashlight , Susan Choi ( June 3 ) <p> Susan Choi 's new novel , Flashlight , inspired by her 2020 short story of the same name , traces the disappearance of a father across time , space , and memory . When Louisa was 10 , she took a walk on the beach with her dad , only to wake up washed up on shore alone . Her father , who could n't swim , had disappeared . For years , Louisa has found herself replaying the events of that day over and over , looking for clues that could help her find her missing dad . But now she 's beginning to wonder : What if he 's out there but does n't want to be found ? <h> Great Black Hope , Rob Franklin ( June 10 ) <p> Writer and poet Rob Franklin 's debut novel , Great Black Hope , is a coming-of-age story about race and class . Reeling from the recent death of his friend , Smith , a queer , Black Stanford graduate , is arrested for cocaine possession in the Hamptons and immediately placed in mandatory treatment . While there , he uses his prestigious education to his advantage , but he knows his race means he will only get so many chances . In order to get ahead , Smith will have to keep on the straight and narrow -- which is easier said than done . <h> I Want to Burn This Place Down , Maris Kreizman ( July 1 ) <p> In her debut essay collection , I Want to Burn This Place Down , cultural critic Maris Kreizman writes about losing faith in American institutions and finding power in transformative rage . In this series of politically charged essays , she shares her musings on the myth of the " good Democrat , " moving even further to the political left in her 40s , and being a former goody two-shoes who now believes you have to break a few rules to make this world a more equitable place . <h> Katabasis , R.F. Kuang ( August 26 ) <p> R.F. Kuang , the best-selling author behind the Poppy War trilogy , Babel , and Yellowface , returns to her fantasy roots with her new novel , Katabasis . After the death of her mentor , which may or may not be her fault , magician Alice Law decides she will travel to hell to save his soul . The only problem is her magic school rival , Peter Murdoch , is headed there too , with every intention of rescuing him first . The two soon realize that they must find a way to work together if they have any chance of making it back home alive . <h> Mother Mary Comes to Me , Arundhati Roy ( September ) <p> With her first memoir , celebrated Indian writer and activist Arundhati Roy traces her life from childhood to the present day , putting much of her focus on her complex relationship with her late mother . Roy began writing Mother Mary Comes to Me after her mother 's death in 2022 , but noted in the memoir 's announcement that she has " been writing this book all my life , " calling her mom " her most enthralling subject . " <h> A Silent Treatment , Jeannie Vanasco ( September ) <p> Jeannie Vanasco 's third memoir , A Silent Treatment , looks at the psychological cost of refusing to communicate . It 's a topic that has personal significance to the author ; her mother , after moving in with her during the pandemic , began using the silent treatment as a form of punishment for any perceived slight . She once went six months without saying a word to her daughter . Using her own harrowing experience as her guide , Vanasco investigates the punishing effects of leaving things unsaid.
