<h> Share this : <p> In this Wednesday , Sept. 21 , 2016 file photo released by the Syrian Presidency , Syrian President Bashar Assad speaks to The Associated Press at the presidential palace in Damascus , Syria . ( Syrian Presidency via AP , File ) <p> President-elect Donald Trump is famous for relishing an opportunity to make a deal . With the stunning collapse of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad 's regime , Trump now has the opportunity to make the deal of a lifetime . <p> Indeed , Assad 's collapse -- which also exposed the weakness of his backers in Russia and Iran -- presents the chance for Trump to reshape the Middle East in a way that protects America 's interests , strengthens our allies , and weakens our enemies . <p> Put another way , working with allies in the region -- Israel , Saudi Arabia , and the United Arab Emirates -- Trump can build a stable , peaceful Middle East that demands fewer American resources , forges ties between Israel and Saudi Arabia , and improves America 's geopolitical position at the expense of our enemies ' . <p> At the same time , while Trump has said that he does not think getting involved in Syria 's issues is within America 's interest , the reality is that a stable Syria is squarely within our interests . <p> U.S. involvement can prevent an Islamist takeover in Syria akin to what happened in Afghanistan , and Assad 's ouster gives Trump a critical opportunity to further isolate Iran , America 's top adversary in the Middle East . <p> As Tehran -- undoubtedly the biggest loser from the Assad regime 's collapse -- rapidly approaches the ability to build nuclear weapons , Trump should ratchet up the pressure on a regime that is increasingly vulnerable following the loss of its most important regional ally . <p> Ideally , this would take the form of enhanced sanctions and a clear warning that American or joint American-Israeli strikes on Iran 's nuclear program -- and the regime itself -- are imminent unless the regime changes its behavior . <p> In addition to bringing maximum pressure to bear on Iran , the historic opportunity created by Assad 's collapse presents a number of steps the U.S. can take to significantly shape the wider region to our advantage . <p> First , the incoming Trump administration needs a policy to deal with the Syrian transitional government . <p> The overarching question regarding Syria 's new government is whether Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) -- the group primarily responsible for Assad 's defeat -- has genuinely renounced its terrorist roots and will establish a government that respects women and minorities . <p> If HTS is sincere in its commitment to tolerance and forswears terrorism , Trump should offer to rollback sanctions on Syria . This should be done in stages , so that the U.S. can verify progress before further easing . <p> To do this effectively , Trump will have to work with Turkey , a key supporter of the Syrian opposition . While Turkish President Recep Erdogan has often antagonized the U.S. , as a NATO country , Turkish influence is preferable to Russian or Iranian . <p> Second , Trump has an opportunity to expand the Abraham Accords -- the historic peace deal brokered in 2020 between Israel , the U.A.E , and Bahrain -- to include a deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia . <p> That these accords have held throughout Israel 's war in Gaza demonstrates the very real possibility of lasting peace between Israel and moderate Arab nations . <p> By using the opportunity created by Assad 's fall to deepen relationships between Jerusalem and Riyadh , Trump could broker the most important deal in the modern history of the Middle East . <p> In that same vein , a deal between Israel and Saudi Arabia would bring the Middle East 's two most powerful countries together , another blow to Iran . <p> Regarding Israel , the Trump administration should fully empower Jerusalem to take unilateral action if it sees growing threats from Syria , Gaza , Lebanon , or elsewhere . This includes letting Hezbollah know that Washington wo n't restrain Israel should the Lebanese terrorist group violate the ceasefire reached earlier this month . <p> To be sure , the Israeli military has already done the world a great favor in the days before and since the collapse of the Assad regime . <p> In decimating Hezbollah and effectively deterring Iran , Israel prevented Assad 's allies from intervening to save his regime , directly contributing to the end of Assad 's rule . <p> Similarly , by destroying roughly 80% of Assad 's conventional and chemical weapons after the regime fell , Israel prevented these from falling into the hands of terrorists . <p> Finally , outside of Syria , Assad 's fall carries the most severe implications for Iran . <p> Tehran backed the Syrian dictator as a critical key in the Iranian-led " axis of resistance " that stretched from Lebanon through Syria and into Yemen . <p> Conversely , with Iran reeling from its conflict with Israel and now the loss of its two most important allies -- Hezbollah and Assad -- Trump would be wise to double down on his " maximum pressure " strategy . <p> Under President Biden , Iran flouted sanctions , all while developing the ability to develop a nuclear bomb in mere days or weeks . Trump must reverse course and tighten the noose on Iran 's economy and nuclear program . <p> He can do this with a full embargo on Iranian oil , including threats of sanctions against countries which continue buying from Iran . <p> On the nuclear issue , Trump should recommit to doing whatever is necessary to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons . If suffocating Iran 's economy via sanctions is not enough , the military option must be on the table . <p> Following Israel 's destruction of Syrian air defenses , which blew open the path to Iran 's nuclear facilities , Israel is reportedly considering striking . Doing so would be a gift to the U.S. , and indeed , the world . Trump should fully support our ally if Israel does in fact go forward . <p> To be clear , this is not calling for preemptive strikes on Iran at this point . Rather , strikes can not be ruled out -- as President 's Biden and Obama essentially did -- as well as stating the absolute need to prevent the marriage of radical Islam with nuclear weapons . <p> Ultimately , recent events in the Middle East present the United States and incoming President Trump with a historic opportunity . <p> Quite simply , Trump has a chance to leave a bigger impact on the Middle East than any of his predecessors , specifically former Presidents Nixon , Carter , Reagan , Bush I , Clinton , Bush II , Obama , or Biden ever had . Should Trump seize this chance , his legacy will stand above theirs . <p> Handled correctly , the United States and our allies will be stronger , while our enemies -- Iran , Russia , and radical terrorists everywhere -- will be permanently weakened , all without risking another " forever war " in the Middle East . <p> Douglas Schoen is a longtime Democratic political consultant . Saul Mangel is a Senior Strategist with Schoen Cooperman Research .
