<h> Planned Parenthood 's federally funded mess <p> Defunding Planned Parenthood is now an attainable goal for the pro-life movement . President-elect Donald Trump aimed to do so during his first time in office , and the pressure remains for his coming term . <p> The case is nondiscriminatory : Planned Parenthood uses its funding poorly and dishonestly . A look into the rampant unionization and various substandard working conditions makes the case itself . That is not to say Planned Parenthood is corrupt and greedy ; case closed -- its executives really are partial to abortion and feel responsible for it , so they maneuver accordingly and do not care about much else . Besides , given the reversal of Roe v. Wade , federal funding for an abortion-plus-side-gigs operation does not fit the frame . Is more money supposed to fix Planned Parenthood ? <p> Of course not . But that is the question the Trump administration is betting will occur to congressmen as part of " getting everybody on the same page . " Trump aided the pro-life cause by reinstating the Mexico City Policy that discontinues federal funding to international organizations that refer to abortion , as well as rolling back an Obamacare rule in order to allow exemptions for contraception coverage . In 2019 , he regulated abortion funding by making it illegal for organizations that receive Title X funding to provide abortion referrals . ( Planned Parenthood Action courteously compiled those and the rest of Trump 's related successes on its website . ) <p> The Title X rule passed and held effect until President Joe Biden undid it in 2021 . It is easy to imagine more party-dependent flip-flopping on Title X , but what is more crucial is the funding Planned Parenthood receives by way of the Affordable Care Act : The majority of the organization 's overall funding , hundreds of millions of dollars , comes from Medicaid reimbursements made possible through ACA rules . Since many Republican lawmakers are hesitant to repeal the Affordable Care Act , every attempt to defund Planned Parenthood by doing so has failed . <p> On the campaign trail , the Trump-Vance administration stated its intention to defund Planned Parenthood , possibly as a target of the Department of Government Efficiency . It is not a good look for the federal government to be in bed with Planned Parenthood -- and the organization 's own internal disorder makes the argument compelling . <p> The hand that rocks the boat <p> The exact amount of federal funding within Planned Parenthood 's 2022-23 income was $699.3 million . No number of government health services grants and reimbursements , however , seem to ensure that the nonprofit runs smoothly . <p> Across the country , Planned Parenthood workers ' unions have sprouted up in response to feeling overworked , stressed out , and unable to provide high-quality " care . " Since the most prominent unionization news came about in 2022 , many attribute the organization 's dysfunction to the Dobbs v. Jackson decision in June of that year . Women seeking abortions now choose to -- and are encouraged to -- travel to states that permit them , and the influx has pushed employees over the edge . Abortion " sanctuary state " statuses certainly contribute to the overwork that workers invoke . But Planned Parenthood unionizing has been public since at least 2017 . And once COVID-19 hit , employees reached their limit . The health crisis led to " essential worker " conditions that only amplified Planned Parenthood 's busy , no-lunch , low-pay environment . For employees in Pennsylvania , COVID-19 made it obvious that they were " being exploited . " <p> The pandemic , along with the significant , though proven incorrect , impression that abortion is a constitutional right , coincided with an already difficult ( some might say , conniving ) employer . The explosion of unions afterward was unavoidable . <p> In Oregon , Planned Parenthood employees felt unsupported by the organization . Service quality was down , frustration was high , and emotional content played no little role in motivating workers -- some " were in tears " upon completion of the union contract . Agreements such as a 15% pay increase and an $18 per hour minimum wage fit into this . <p> One might think that given the amount of income that Planned Parenthood reports , over $2 billion in 2022 , its problems would be better fixed by reallocation than by substantial union promises . <p> But , the people who have the best intuition for the organization 's intentions doubt the idea . It is why Oregon Planned Parenthood 's union was no one-off . Planned Parenthood of the Pacific Southwest , in California , saw similar unionization as workers claimed they had been " underpaid and overworked " and needed " better balance " in their lives . That union contract concluded also with a 15% pay raise , and a $23 per hour minimum wage . <p> Planned Parenthood North Central States has an even larger union . It represents more than 400 workers assembled behind numerous claims of burnout and union busting . The range of complaints amounts to overall poor employee treatment . One Minnesota nurse said of her coworkers , " Not a lot of them make it to the one-year mark . " More damning : " Without significant changes in how we are treated , our organization will continue to be a revolving door . " <p> It does not help that , just as identical problems of overwork sprung up at Planned Parenthood offices across the country in 2022 , a prominent regional executive issued an anti-union letter . The then-CEO of Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts , Jennifer Childs-Roshak , discouraged employees from joining the union on the grounds that unionizing makes the organization less " flexible . " <p> Her statement communicates to the public just what its employees recognize , namely that Planned Parenthood does not actually care about using its funding well . Unions forced Planned Parenthood 's hand , and only temporarily . <p> Still ill <p> Given Planned Parenthood 's foundational eugenicism , it is not much of a surprise to hear that the organization cares little for the dignity of its workers , however undignifying the work . And while its leadership has made many a statement to convince the public of an inclusive and progressive ethos , allegations run wild . <p> As always , Planned Parenthood faces accusations of racism . Someone claims a form of discrimination from the organization just about every year . Dozens of staff have filed lawsuits . It is difficult to take claims of systemic racism seriously in today 's society -- but the claims are still there . If not systemic racism , they speak to something of the inner workings of this organization . <p> Perhaps it indicates , as already hinted by the unionization , blatant apathy for anything apart from abortion itself . Moldy facilities and alleged disability discrimination make up some of the complaints that accompany " stress , " " sobbing , " and " chaotic conditions . " <p> When one Planned Parenthood employee received a cervical cancer diagnosis , a condition to which the organization claims commitment as it counts screening for cancer among its services , her employer denied family medical leave and soon fired her . The woman sued and settled for $75,000 . <p> That was in 2017 , and there is no reason to believe that Planned Parenthood 's disposition has changed . <p> As its goals suggest , Planned Parenthood discriminates also based on pregnancy . Many women have claimed they " were scared to tell managers they were pregnant , " other employees emphasizing their own singleness or homosexuality . Other pregnant women have been denied breaks and pressed to return early to work . It might be reasonable to want to consider pregnancy during hiring and operational processes -- but that does not make it legal . <p> For Planned Parenthood , especially , to punish pregnant women for wanting to work is beyond ironic . The nonprofit organization giant leads the movement for " equal pay , " " trust women , " and " my body , my choice . " Then again , it is right in line with the hyperfocus on abortion . <p> Suffer , little children <p> Whatever their money is spent on , it is not maternity leave . Nor healthcare support , building maintenance , or an innovative business model that would help fund these things . <p> The lawyer who handled the cervical cancer suit pointed out , " There 's an assumption that when you treat women with those issues , you 'd be sympathetic to those issues . " <p> But Planned Parenthood is not sympathetic , and it does not intend to be . The fact of the matter is that , both ideally and practically , the organization 's priority is abortion . More than priority : Given the amount of income it receives , which has been upwards of $1.5 billion for at least the past five years , and the breakdown of its services , it is safe to say that abortion may be Planned Parenthood 's only object . At the mention of the organization 's defunding , the first concern most outlets wave is " low-income women without access to affordable birth control " or abortion and contraception . <p> But total contraceptive services were down 4% in 2021-22 , per an analysis of statistics from Planned Parenthood 's most recent report . Exceptionally , male sterilization was up 43% . <p> As with contraception , many of the other services that Planned Parenthood uses to claim that it offers indisposable , normal healthcare were down : Colposcopies and pap smear tests , both exams that screen for cervical cancer , each decreased 14% . Family practice services were down 1.5% , adoption referrals were down 4.5% , and telehealth appointments were down 65% from its pre-COVID-19 level . <p> Prenatal care is one statistic to note . It was up 1.2% from the previous year but down 31% from its pre-COVID-19 average . As the beacon of Planned Parenthood , abortion increased by 5% to a total of 392,715 . Abortion sweeps away any other type of service on Planned Parenthood 's agenda , along with any doubt as to where the organization directs most of its income . <p> The prenatal care total is just 1.6% the size of the abortion total . When added to the total of adoption referrals , which at times consists of advice just to " Google it , " as some recordings show , the two make up 2% of the number of abortions in the same year . <p> It could be said that , given recent years ' restrictions on abortion , of course , the numbers for most other services pale in comparison . Yet Planned Parenthood 's total services for 2021-22 declined 3.8% . It is not just that abortion is taking the place of other services because of demand : Even as the aggregate of Planned Parenthood 's services decreased , abortion increased -- and did so by 1.2 percentage points more . <p> These and similar abuses are not unknown . Groups such as Stop Planned Parenthood , the organization that provides statistical analysis of Planned Parenthood 's reports , and 40 Days for Life regularly document Planned Parenthood 's work . However , part of how the nonprofit organization succeeds is because of its linkage to progressive politics . <p> The organization adopts the left-wing default for any given issue and publishes needless statements on them , such as Black Lives Matter , transgenderism , and the Israel-Gaza war . It is how Planned Parenthood maintains blind loyalty in the face of severe disorganization . That way , Planned Parenthood is given the benefit of the doubt and can remain devoted to the singular cause of abortion -- all without protest from anyone but unwitting taxpayers .
