<h> The Oxford Union did n't publish two of the debate videos until Friday and reuploaded the others after they had been edited . <p> TENTS ARE pitched outside the Oxford University Museum of Natural History , as students occupy parts of British campuses in support of Palestinians in Gaza , this week . Supporters of genocidal jihadist groups are spreading mayhem across the Western world , says the writer . ( photo credit : HOLLIE ADAMS/REUTERS ) <p> The Oxford Union Society released several edited videos of its recent Israel-related debate on Friday after the student group faced heavy criticism for the alleged censorship of videos , the conduct of the audience and participants , and alleged pro-terrorism rhetoric in some of the speeches . <p> The following day , opposition debater , writer , and Oxford alum Jonathan Sacerdoti said the video of his speech had been edited to hide the heckling and abuse that he and other opposition debaters experienced . He and former Palestinian spy for Israel and anti-Hamas activist Mosab Hassan Yousef said the union had failed to upload Yousef 's speech for the same reason . <p> " They 've tried to hide what happened , in the video of my speech , by muting the sound and sticking to a wide shot , " Sacerdoti said on social media . <p> He published his recording of the debate on YouTube on December 6 . Footage of Yoseph Haddad being kicked out of the Oxford Union debate ( credit : SCREENSHOT/X/VIA SECTION 27A OF THE COPYRIGHT ACT ) <p> The Oxford Union Society criticized him for publishing and recording content without permission . It said the recordings were under legal review , but removed its video of Sacerdoti 's speech and re-uploaded it onto YouTube last Friday . <p> The video of Yousef 's debate was also released last Friday , which he said had been hidden in an attempt to hide the " moral rot " of the audience . <p> Last week , Sacerdoti said the union was ashamed not just of the abuse he received , but by the attempt of then-Oxford Union Society president Ebrahim Osman-Mowafy to remove Yousef from the room when he described Palestinians as a pathetic people . <p> " Since thousands pressured the students who run the Oxford Union to publish Mosab Hassan Yousef 's excellent speech , they 've now caved in and made it public , " Sacerdoti said on Saturday . " But only after I 'd already shown their failures and extremism by publishing the uncensored audio . And now they 've deleted other speeches and censored those instead , making a complete mockery of freedom of speech . " <h> Oxford Union addresses footage in a statement <p> Last Friday , the union acknowledged that " consistent with our existing practice of upholding standards while being mindful of potential legal concerns , sections of the official footage of the debate have been removed . " <p> Among the speeches that were edited was one by anti-Zionist Israeli writer Miko Peled , a member of the team in favor of the proposition , which like Yousef 's speech had not been uploaded until Friday . <p> Last Wednesday , Yousef said on X/Twitter the union had withheld Peled 's speech in an attempt to " destroy evidence " when Peled reportedly made statements of support for the October 7 massacre . <p> Sacerdoti had uploaded onto YouTube an alleged recording of Peled in which he said , " October 7 was not terrorism " but " acts of heroism of a people who have been oppressed . " His statements did not appear in the speech uploaded by the Oxford Union Society . <p> Opposition team debater and Arab pro-Israel activist Yoseph Haddad said the union had , with its acknowledgment that it had edited the video for legal compliance , " literally admitted that during Miko Peled 's speech , he supported terrorism and instead of calling him out and expelling him from the debate , they allowed him to continue and even cheered for him . " <p> Proposition team debater and Palestinian writer and activist Susan Abulhawa on Saturday criticized the union for removing her speech and re-uploading a version that was about a minute shorter . She demanded to know why her speech had been edited when the union had not issued " statements , retractions , or other forms of censorship " in the past . <p> " Such modification of my speech and censorship is unethical and contrary to the ideals they purport to uphold , " she said on social media . " This censorship and perversion of my remarks come after the original YouTube video had garnered hundreds of thousands of views and thousands of comments in less than one week , which apparently was bothersome to Zionists . I demand the original speech be reinstated in its entirety as it was previously posted . " <p> The union had folded to demands by Zionists , who had been " rewriting history for the past eight decades , " Abulhawa said . <p> Yousef on Wednesday also accused union president Osman-Mowafy of packing the audience to " guarantee vote results that suited his personal political views " when he debated on the side of the proposition . <p> The proposition that Israel was committing genocide passed 278-59 . <p> On December 4 , the union said the withdrawal of a guest speaker on short notice had necessitated that Osman-Mowafy fill the slot . Norman Finkelstein reportedly backed out because historian Benny Morris declined to join the opposition team . <p> The video of Osman-Mowafy 's speech said : " This speaker is a competitive debater , and the views expressed may not represent their own beliefs . " <p> The debate between the team of Sacerdoti , Yousef , Haddad , and UK Lawyers For Israel Charitable Trust legal director Natasha Hausdorff against Osman-Mowafy , Abulhawa , and Peled was rife with jeering and interruption . The proposition team refused to be photographed with their opponents , and Peled refused to shake their hands . <p> Abulhawa said an audience member had called Hassan Yousef a " whore " in Arabic when he approached the podium . Sacerdoti was repeatedly interrupted by guests yelling that he was lying . <p> On Friday , the union said it was committed to free speech and did not endorse any singular viewpoint . <p> " We are aware that the union 's recent debate on Israel/Palestine has drawn widespread commentary and attention , " it said . " The union acknowledges that facilitating difficult conversations carries a responsibility to approach sensitive topics with care . "
