<h> Israel sees signs of breakthrough in talks over Gaza ceasefire <p> Dec. 17 , 2024Updated Tue. , Dec. 17 , 2024 at 12:37 p.m . <p> Palestinians inspect damage at the site of an Israeli strike on a house amid the Israel-Hamas conflict at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on Dec. 13 , 2024 . ( Moiz Salhi/Middle East Images via AFP/Getty Images/TNS ) <p> Israeli officials say a ceasefire in Gaza is a more realistic prospect than at any time in the past year , suggesting a long-awaited deal to free hostages and boost aid to the beleaguered territory could be close . <p> A working group from Israel is in the Qatari capital of Doha this week to re-establish relations with mediators in the event of a breakthrough in negotiations with Hamas , said the officials , asking not to be identified discussing sensitive information . <p> " There 's a chance to reach a deal and , from what I know , it will involve all 100 hostages , " Diaspora Affairs Minister Amichai Chikli said on Army Radio on Tuesday . " First the humanitarian cases and then the rest . " <p> There 's been no official comment from Hamas . <p> An agreement to at least pause the Israel-Hamas war would end more than a year of frustration , during which talk of an imminent deal has bubbled up intermittently before swiftly collapsing . Negotiations are being mediated by Qatar and Egypt , with oversight from the U.S. , and recent visits to the region from Washington officials may have helped advance the process . <p> Intensive Qatari and Egyptian efforts are underway " with all parties " to reach a truce in Gaza , Cairo-based broadcaster Extranews , which typically represents government thinking , said on X on Tuesday . <p> The BBC cited an unidentified Palestinian official involved in the talks saying that they are in the final stages . <p> Details are mostly under wraps , but two Israeli officials said the ceasefire would come in stages , starting during the administration of outgoing U.S. President Joe Biden and continuing after Donald Trump takes office on Jan. 20 . <p> Adam Boehler , appointed by Trump as a special envoy for hostage affairs in the upcoming administration , is in Israel meeting Netanyahu , among others . Trump has stated he wants the hostages freed before he starts his new term . <p> In the first phase of the deal under discussion , hostages defined as " humanitarian " -- women , the ill and those older than 51 -- would be freed in exchange for Palestinian prisoners held in Israel . There would then be a ceasefire of six to seven weeks during which Israeli troops would withdraw from parts of Gaza , with talks beginning on a permanent truce . <p> Hundreds of aid trucks would enter the Palestinian territory daily during that period , bringing much-needed food , water and health supplies to a population the United Nations and aid groups say is gripped by humanitarian crisis . <p> The second phase , according to the officials , would bring back the remaining hostages -- military-age men , mostly -- in exchange for more Palestinian prisoners . The third stage would see work begin on the reconstruction of Gaza and include the return of bodies of hostages . About half of the 100 still in captivity are thought to be dead . <p> In previous rounds of talks , a major obstacle has been the insistence by Hamas that , from the start , Israel agrees to withdraw all its troops from Gaza . Israel has refused , saying it will not stop its campaign until Hamas is destroyed and can no longer rule the territory . <p> While Hamas has n't publicly acknowledged a change in that stance , Israeli officials say the Iran-backed group has become more flexible . <p> A number of other issues still need to be negotiated , including what constitutes a humanitarian case for a hostage . Israel wants all the women released first , including soldiers . <p> A second sticking point is what security checks would be imposed on Gazans returning to the north of the strip . A third is from where Israeli troops must withdraw , and a fourth is that Israel wants to reserve the right to return to fighting in Gaza . <p> Any of those could stop a deal from reaching fruition . <p> The Israel-Hamas war began in October 2023 when thousands of Hamas militants raided southern Israel from Gaza , killing 1,200 people and abducting 250 . Israel responded with a fearsome assault by air , sea and land , a war that has turned much of the coastal strip into rubble , displaced some 2 million people and , according to the Hamas-run health ministry , killed 45,000 . <p> Hamas is considered a terrorist group by the U.S. and many other governments . Israel says it 's killed nearly 20,000 militants but does n't say how many civilians . <p> Just over a year ago , more than 100 hostages were exchanged for hundreds of Palestinian prisoners and a boost in humanitarian aid . But a deal to maintain that peace quickly fell apart . <p> During the course of the war , other Iran-allied militias have joined in the attacks on Israel in solidarity with Hamas , including Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen . Israel has fought back , killing the leadership of Hezbollah and severely degrading the group 's military capabilities . A ceasefire with Hezbollah was agreed to in late November , which the U.S. said would give impetus to the stalled talks over Gaza . <p> Iran has twice exchanged direct fire with Israel but is on the back foot , particularly after the ouster of key ally , Syria 's ex-President Bashar al-Assad . Israel launched a major offensive on Syria immediately after his toppling , seeking to destroy weapons sites before they fell into the hands of hostile Islamist groups . <p> All this has left Hamas isolated and weak . That , according to the Israelis , is why the group appears to have softened its demands and why a deal seems more achievable . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds .
