<h> Hamas , Hezbollah , and several other groups are listed as terrorist organizations , and it is prohibited to display their symbols for purposes such as incitement . <p> A protester wears a ' Free Palestine ' face mask during a demonstration in support of Palestinians , on the day of the one year anniversary of the October 7 attack , amid the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict , in Manchester , Britain , October 7 , 2024. ( photo credit : PHIL NOBLE/REUTERS ) <p> The Australian state of Victoria is committed to banning Hamas and Hezbollah flags , masked protests , and restricting demonstrations as houses of worship in a bid to counter rising extremism and antisemitic incidents in the country , Victoria Premier Jacinta Allan announced on Tuesday . <p> The Victorian government said that while the peaceful protest was protected under the 2006 Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act , the right had to be balanced with the right to safety . <p> According to it , demonstrations since October 7 had seen " extreme , dangerous , and radical conduct " where antisemitism thrived . <p> " Antisemitism thrives in extreme and radical environments , and we are giving police more power to control protest , making it harder for agents of violence and hate to hide , " Allan said in a press release . <p> Victoria lists Hamas , Hezbollah , and several other groups as terrorist organizations and it is prohibited to display their symbols for purposes such as incitement , but Allan 's Labor government said that it would completely ban the symbols . <p> The police will potentially have the power to " stop , search , and seize " in response to any display of an icon or flag of a terrorist organization . <p> A mask ban was proposed , as police told the government that identity concealment was used to hamper crowd-control operations and identify criminal offenders . The press release noted that exemptions would be made to wearing a mask in the case of health , religious , or cultural reasons . <p> A Palestinian flag flutters next to the protest encampment in support of Palestinians in Gaza at The University of Sydney , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , in Sydney , Australia May 3 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/ALASDAIR PAL ) <p> " Masks are n't a free pass to break the law . There should be no place to hide in this state if you 're a racist stirring up hate on the streets , " the government said . <p> Police will also gain new powers to confiscate items like glue , rope , chains , and locks that activists have reportedly been using to attach themselves to objects to prevent movement and access . <p> " They put people in harm 's way , make it harder for the police to do their jobs -- and make heroes out of morons , " it added . <h> Seeking to limit demonstrations at religious sites <p> Noting the prevalence of protests outside synagogues , such as the December Great Synagogue protest in Sydney and last November 's Central Shule Melbourne rally in Caulfield South , which resulted in an evacuation , the Allan government said that it would seek to limit demonstrations at religious sites . <p> The proposal did not offer definitive answers on the extent of the restrictions but said it could include the establishment of " safe access areas " or the prohibition of disturbances at religious gatherings . <p> " Some of these reforms are complex because they involve a balance of fundamental rights . But we are committed to consulting with the community and delivering them as soon as possible , " Police Minister Anthony Carbines said in a press release . <p> Victoria 's government also sought to create a new liaison group to open regular communication channels with the Jewish community . The Local Escalation and Help Group could include government department representatives , Jewish community organizations , and security groups . <p> " This is n't about the Middle East , " said Allan . ' This is about Victoria . This is about our values and the right of anyone in this state to live , work , and pray freely without fear of intimidation , fear , and violence . " <p> The Zionist Federation of Australia ( ZAF ) and Zionism Victoria welcomed the package of reforms , with ZFA president Jeremy Leibler saying that " these reforms will not only help to make Victoria safer and more welcoming for Jewish people but for all Victorians . " <p> Zionism Victoria leader Elyse Schachna said on social media , " People who want to protest about an issue should do so without their faces covered by a mask ; this promotes transparency and accountability and ensures that individuals stand by their actions and words . " <p> The reforms came after a string of antisemitic incidents in Australia , including an arson attack in December against the Adass Israel Synagogue in the suburb of Ripponlea , in Melbourne .
