<h> Israel plans to double its population in the occupied Golan Heights amid intensive airstrikes in Syria <p> A colossal explosion rocked the Syrian port city of Tartus overnight , following a presumed Israeli airstrike , fueling fresh scrutiny over Israel 's actions in Syria following the Assad regime 's ouster . <p> Footage of the blast emerged as Israel announced plans to double its population in the occupied Golan Heights , citing threats from Syria . The move earned international condemnation and came after Syrian rebel leader Abu Mohammad al-Jolani said he has no interest in engaging in new conflicts . <p> The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , a London-based war monitoring group , described the imagery emerging from Tartus as representing " the most violent Israeli strikes on military sites in the eastern Tartus area . " <p> In the video which spread across social media Monday , the massive explosion can be seen erupting across the Syrian skyline . <p> NBC News has been able to geolocate the footage as being filmed from Tartus port area pointing at the mountains northeast of the city , with NASA satellites detecting aftermath fires in an area just more than 9 miles from the harbor . <p> A massive explosion from a reported Israeli strike on a munitions depot in the Syrian port city of Tartus on Sunday . via X <p> The Israel Defense Forces did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the footage . But an Israeli official who reviewed the video said the fireball was likely the result of a secondary explosion , citing the possibility of munitions igniting following an Israeli strike . The official spoke on the condition of anonymity as the person was not authorized to discuss Israel 's aerial campaign in Syria . <p> It comes days after satellite images appeared to show Russian forces packing up and dismantling military equipment at Russia 's Tartus naval base and Hmeimim air base , both located south of Latakia on Syria 's Mediterranean coast . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel 's actions in Syria , which came as it continues to intensively bomb the Palestinian enclave of the Gaza Strip , were aimed at ensuring the country 's safety . <p> " Strengthening the Golan means strengthening the State of Israel , and this is especially important at this time , " he said in a statement Sunday after his government unanimously approved his plan to expand the Israeli population in the area . <p> An Israeli military vehicle patrols the Syria-Israel border in the Majdal Shams area of the Golan Heights on Sunday.Saeed Qaq / Anadolu via Getty Images <p> Israel occupied the Golan Heights during the 1967 Mideast War and later annexed the roughly 460-square-mile area in 1981 in a unilateral decision that was not recognized by the international community . <p> In 2019 , then-President Donald Trump broke with the international community and years of U.S. precedent in moving to recognize Israel 's sovereignty over the territory -- a policy shift that was not reversed by the Biden administration . <p> The decision to expand the Israeli population in the Golan Heights comes after Netanyahu 's office said Thursday that the collapse of Bashar al-Assad 's regime in Syria had " created a vacuum on Israel 's border and in the buffer zone established by the 1974 Separation of Forces Agreement , " which stipulated Israel 's withdrawal from areas of Mount Hermon it occupied during the 1973 Arab-Israeli War . <p> An Israeli soldier rolls up a portrait of ousted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad near the village of Majdal Shams in the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights on Saturday.Jalaa Marey / AFP via Getty Images <p> " Israel will not permit jihadi groups to fill that vacuum and threaten Israeli communities on the Golan Heights with October 7th style attacks , " it said . <p> The warning was followed by the announcement that Israeli forces would remain on Mount Hermon -- a key strategic peak inside a buffer zone that has existed with Syria for decades -- through the winter after occupying the site . <p> Jolani said Saturday that Israel was using false pretexts to justify attacks on the country , according to the Reuters news agency . But , he said , his Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) group had no interest in engaging in new conflicts as the nation looks to rebuild following the end to the Assad reign . <p> With its roots in extremist Islamist movements , HTS remains a globally designated terrorist group and in 2018 , the United States placed a $10 million bounty on Jolani 's head . <p> The Syrian town of Quneitra , seen from the Golan Heights in Majdal Shams , on Dec. 11 . Kobi Wolf / Bloomberg via Getty Images <p> The former Al Qaeda fighter has projected a more moderate image and promised a Syria inclusive of the religions and ethnic groups represented in the country . The Biden administration has said it is considering removing HTS from its list of terrorist organizations . <p> By Monday , the plan to expand the Israeli population in the Golan Heights , as well as Israel 's airstrikes on Syria over the weekend , began to draw international backlash , with the Turkish Foreign Affairs Ministry condemning what it described as " a new stage in Israel 's goal of expanding its borders through occupation . " <p> " Israel 's ongoing actions seriously undermine the efforts to bring peace and stability to Syria and further increase tensions in the region , " it said in a statement Monday . <p> It comes after United Nations chief Ant ? nio Guterres last week called on Israel to halt its aerial attacks and advance into Syrian territory following Assad 's ouster , as he branded " recent and extensive violations " of Syria 's sovereignty " deeply concerning . "
