<h> membership ticker <p> We could use your help . <p> If you 've been thinking about supporting nonprofit Mother Jones this year , you could n't pick a better time than now . Any gift you make online -- this week only -- will be matched dollar-for-dollar , thanks to a $25,000 matching gift from a generous donor . Corporations and powerful people with deep pockets will never sustain the fierce journalism we do . That 's why we need you to show up for us right now . <p> If you 've been thinking about supporting nonprofit Mother Jones this year , you could n't pick a better time than now . Any gift you make online -- this week only -- will be matched dollar-for-dollar , thanks to a $25,000 matching gift from a generous donor . Corporations and powerful people with deep pockets will never sustain the fierce journalism we do . That 's why we need you to show up for us right now . <h> " I hate Judaism but love Jews and wish them a very pleasant conversion to Christianity . " <p> Fight disinformation : Sign up for the free Mother Jones Daily newsletter and follow the news that matters . <p> For a brief moment in November , the TheoBros , a network of militant Christian nationalist influencers , made news when Donald Trump nominated one of their allies , former Fox News commentator Pete Hegseth , to lead the Department of Defense . Hegseth attends a church that is affiliated with the TheoBro movement , and he has cited TheoBro patriarch Doug Wilson , a pastor in Moscow , Idaho , as someone who has had a major influence on him . While the controversies surrounding Hegseth 's alleged alcohol abuse and mismanagement of funds meant for veterans continue to make the news , the TheoBros have receded into the background . <p> But as it turns out , they are embroiled in a major controversy of their own . A simmering divide over how Christians should regard Judaism has ignited into a conflagration . The resulting rift has left two factions of TheoBros retreating into their separate camps -- one of which is doubling down on antisemitic rhetoric to a widening audience . <p> The backstory -- as much of it as I 've been able to piece together -- goes something like this : An undercurrent of antisemitism , which has long rippled through the TheoBros ' social media spheres , has intensified over the last year . In May , Samuel Holden , a pro-Hitler content creator , released a video that he called " White Boy Summer , " a nod to an earlier song and meme popularized by white nationalist influencers , including head Groyper Nick Fuentes . Holden 's video combined hyper-masculine and Christian nationalist content with pro-Nazi imagery . Wilson , the TheoBro patriarch , condemned the video , calling it " Nazi triumphalism . " <p> But Wilson 's acolytes seemed titillated by " White Boy Summer " -- or maybe they were just flattered . In the video , Holden tagged several younger TheoBros , including Texas pastor Joel Webbon , Utah pastors Eric Conn and Brian Sauv ? , and Stephen Wolfe , author of the 2022 book The Case for Christian Nationalism . Shortly after Holden released the video , Conn reposted it on X , commenting , " By God we shall have our home again , " a white nationalist slogan . The following month , Sauv ? posted , " Pride month is canceled . Welcome to White Boy Summer . " Wolfe , meanwhile , criticized Wilson for disavowing it . " A better tactic would be friendliness to these young rightwing guys , " he said . Conn , Sauv ? , and Wolfe did n't respond to questions from Mother Jones about their reactions to the video . <p> Webbon , one of the most outspoken of the TheoBros , praised the video in a June podcast . He clarified in an email to Mother Jones that he had initially " shared the Samuel Holden video without watching closely " and that he condemns " both Nazis and Bolsheviks/Communists . However , the latter is by far a more present threat today . " Yet the video 's message fit in nicely with some of the sentiments he had been expressing earlier in the spring . " You thought Christian nationalism was scary , " he posted on X in May . " Enjoy Jewish nationalism . " The same day , he posted : " America has long had a separation of Church and State . Perhaps one day we might also have a separation of Synagogue and State . " <p> " America has long had a separation of Church and State . Perhaps one day we might also have a separation of Synagogue and State . " <p> The disagreement over the video simmered for a few months . Then , this past fall , a skirmish erupted on X and in various podcasts over an accusation by German TheoBro Tobias Riemenschneider that Webbon had failed to adequately address the problem of a young man in his church who had allegedly been sharing pro-Nazi memes . Wilson sided with Riemenschneider , agreeing that allowing such hatred to go unchecked was dangerous for a church community . <p> In November , Wilson issued a statement he called the Antioch Declaration , a rambling document that eventually condemns " the racial and antisemitic theories of Adolf Hitler and neo-pagan doctrines of the Nazi cult . " Several prominent TheoBros signed on , and some wrote statements of their own . Wilson 's sidekick Toby Sumpter , a pastor in Wilson 's church , for example , endorsed his friend 's argument , adding in a blog post that a church that tolerated antisemitism was just as bad as one that tolerated homosexuality . In the same post , Sumpter called the " White Boy Summer " video " as gay as socks on a rooster . " Hegseth has n't signed the declaration , but his views on Judaism seem to align with those of the Wilson camp : He is strongly pro-Israel and posted on Instagram that he believes antisemitism " is running rampant on ' elite ' university campuses . " <p> Webbon , meanwhile , has dug in his heels . In the last few weeks , virtually all of his posts on X have focused on the TheoBro rift . For him , the problem with Judaism , at least theologically , appears to be the Talmud -- a sacred text of ancient rabbinical teachingsin Judaism that , he argued in an October blog post , not only rejects the notion of Jesus as the son of God , but also " effectively corrupts and totally undermines all of the Old Testament . " In early November , he posted on X , " I hate Judaism but love Jews and wish them a very pleasant conversion to Christianity . " <p> Later in November , in his podcast episode after Wilson released the Antioch Declaration , Webbon said that in his version of a Christian nationalist America , " No practicing Jew who has n't converted to Christianity will be able to serve in public office . " He called Judaism a " parasitical " religion in the subsequent episode . " What it has done historically throughout the ages is typically go into other countries , other peoples with other religions , and kind of cozy up but not really for their benefit -- not a mutually beneficial relationship , but where they ultimately get far more out of the deal than the Christian nation does , " he added . In mid-December , mixed martial arts champion Jake Shields appeared on Webbon 's podcast . Afterward , Shields posted a clip to his 800,000 X followers in which Webbon argues that ever since the Allies triumphed over Hitler 's Germany in World War II , Christianity has been diminished in the West . In an email to Mother Jones , Webbon said he stands by " everything I 've said about Judaism . It is a pernicious evil . " <p> Webbon 's damn-the-torpedoes social media approach to this conflict is somewhat ironic , given thathe learned how to shitpost from none other than Wilson . For the last six years , Wilson has been celebrating what he calls No Quarter November : " The month where we say out loud what everyone is thinking . " In a video a few years ago , Webbon described being inspired by Wilson not to censor himself . " You stay in your little corner , you stay on your little leash , because you 're like , I do n't know what will happen , " Webbon said . " But when you see some other guy do it , and you 're like , that 's the worst thing that can happen ? Vice writes an article about you ? Christianity Today Editor-in-Chief Russell Moore wo n't invite you to his birthday party anymore ? Like , that 's it . " <p> While a well-known figure in the world of the TheoBros , with only about 27,000 followers on X , Webbon 's influence outside those circles is difficult to determine . But there is some evidence that the antisemitism he and other TheoBros espouse may be breaking into the MAGA mainstream . The week after Wilson released the Antioch Declaration , Webbon appeared on the podcast of Calvin Robinson , a British Christian nationalist pastor , where he argued that the Talmud was " uniquely hostile to Jesus Christ . " Robinson posted that portion of the conversation to his 403,000 followers on X. In addition to his robust social media following , Robinson is connected to the Trump team : He spoke at a Trump rally at a Georgia church a few days before the election . <p> And then there is William Wolfe , a TheoBro who served as deputy assistant secretary of defense at the Pentagon in the first Trump administration . He has posted phrases that are widely recognized as antisemitic dog whistles , such as , " Notice things . And point them out to others . " That may appear to be anodyne , but antisemitic extremists use the word " noticing " to refer to identifying Jewish people in powerful positions . Around the same time , Wolfe posted , apropos of no previous conversation : " You know what 's a beach I love ? Hilton Head . " The initials " HH " are often used as neo-Nazi code for " Heil Hitler . " Wolfe did n't respond to Mother Jones ' request for comment . <p> The TheoBros ' attitudes toward Judaism differ starkly from those of adherents to the New Apostolic Reformation ( NAR ) , a rapidly growing charismatic movement that calls Christians to take over the government . As I wrote a few months ago , many NAR believers are fervently pro-Israel because they are convincedit will play a crucial role in ushering in the return of the Messiah just before the End Times . This scenario is n't entirely benign -- eventually , they believe , all Jews will convert to Christianity , and those whodo n't will perish . The NAR crowd 's extreme love for Israel can have a love-bombing quality about it : At NAR events , I have seen many charismatic Christians wearing Stars of David and Jewish prayer shawls . At one in Pennsylvania , a group of Christian teenagers set up a chuppah -- the canopy used at Jewish weddings -- and danced the horah . <p> The TheoBros ' fixation on Judaism , however , is much less admiring . It 's also an example of a broader shift on social media over the past year , where , against the backdrop of the war in Gaza , extremists have become emboldened to use more explicitly antisemitic memes and rhetoric . One prominent example of this is former bounty **26;1865;TOOLONG Stew Peters , who since October 7 has transformed from a garden-variety anti-vaccine activist into a full-onNazisympathizer . ( At the time of this writing , his most recent post on X was : " Putting a television set in your living room is like inviting a jew into your house . Using AI is like inviting a jew into your brain . " ) In June , Webbon appeared on Peters ' show ; he called the founding of Israel " one of the biggest mistakes in history . " He added , " There is no major world religion with a more hostile view toward the person and work of Jesus Christ , our savior and Lord , than Talmudic Judaism . " Peters has more than 550,000 followers on Rumble , the far-right platform where he broadcasts . <p> When asked for comment , Webbon clarified to Mother Jones that he does not " hold to Peters ' views . " In a separate email , he provided a link to a document called the " Statement on Natural Affections , " which he said he had helped write . The statement acknowledges " that Nazism was , and is , an anti-Christian ideology that exalts the state as savior and god " and that " while the Allied powers rightly opposed the evils of Nazis , that some of their actions violated Christian principles of justice and morality . " <p> Wilson signed the Statement on Natural Affections , but it does n't seem as though he 's forgiven Webbon . He recently withdrew as a featured speaker from a conference that Webbon plans to host next year . When I asked Wilson for comment for this article , he responded , " Because one of the accusations against us is that we only did the Antioch Declaration in order to placate commie publications like Mother Jones , I could n't risk any positive mention of us right now . " <h> Looking for news you can trust ? <p> Subscribe to the Mother Jones Daily to have our top stories delivered directly to your inbox . <h> DONALD TRUMP &amp; DEMOCRACY <p> Mother Jones was founded to do journalism differently . We stand for justice and democracy . We reject false equivalence . We go after stories others do n't . We 're a nonprofit newsroom , because the kind of truth-telling investigations we do does n't happen under corporate ownership . <p> And we need your support like never before , to fight back against the existential threats American democracy faces . Fundraising for nonprofit media is always a challenge , and we need all hands on deck right now . We have no cushion ; we leave it all on the field . <p> It 's reader support that enables Mother Jones to report the facts that are too difficult , expensive , or inconvenient for other news outlets to uncover . Please help with a donation today if you can -- even a few bucks will make a real difference . A monthly gift would be incredible . <h> DONALD TRUMP &amp; DEMOCRACY <p> Mother Jones was founded to do journalism differently . We stand for justice and democracy . We reject false equivalence . We go after stories others do n't . We 're a nonprofit newsroom , because the kind of truth-telling investigations we do does n't happen under corporate ownership . <p> And we need your support like never before , to fight back against the existential threats American democracy faces . Fundraising for nonprofit media is always a challenge , and we need all hands on deck right now . We have no cushion ; we leave it all on the field . <p> It 's reader support that enables Mother Jones to report the facts that are too difficult , expensive , or inconvenient for other news outlets to uncover . Please help with a donation today if you can -- even a few bucks will make a real difference . A monthly gift would be incredible .
