<h> Netanyahu is anxious to avoid starting off on the wrong foot with the grievance-obsessed president-elect , who recently told Time magazine that he does n't really trump the prime minister . <p> A DEMONSTRATION takes place near the US Embassy Branch Office in Tel Aviv last week , with participants calling on President-elect Donald Trump to ensure the release of all the hostages held in Gaza . ( photo credit : STOYAN NENOV/REUTERS ) <p> Xi Jinping said no thanks , Vladimir Putin said he was n't even asked , and Bibi Netanyahu is a delighted yes , aides report . The Israeli prime minister plans to attend Donald Trump 's second inauguration -- if he can get time off from his criminal corruption trial . <p> He may be bringing the new president a very special gift , but first he 's planning one he hopes to be able to deliver next week when the first day of Hanukkah and Christmas coincide . <p> Bibi could hardly contain his enthusiasm over Trump 's election , racing to be among the first to call with a hearty mazel tov . He does n't want to risk angering the disgraced former president , who was furious when Netanyahu called to congratulate Joe Biden for winning an election Trump still insists he won . <p> By inserting himself into the Gaza negotiations -- declaring there will be " all hell to pay " if the war is still going on when he takes office -- Trump has apparently motivated Netanyahu to make a deal . The Israeli leader is anxious to avoid starting off on the wrong foot with the grievance-obsessed president-elect , who has recently told Time magazine that he does n't really trust the prime minister . The two leaders have spoken several times since the election , most recently as Bibi assured his friend " at length about the efforts we are making to free our hostages . " <p> Leaks coming from all directions indicate Israel and Hamas could finally be ready . Both combatants may be anxious to score points with the incoming administration and poke their fingers in Biden 's eyes , one blaming him for not doing enough to help destroy Hamas and the other for doing too much . ( Illustrative ) Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and president-elect Donald Trump over a backdrop of hostage posters . ( credit : BRINGTHEMHOMENOW , Canva , REUTERS/LEAH MILLIS ) <p> Netanyahu has frequently shown contempt for Biden , but he fears Trump , and one reason can be found on Capitol Hill . Netanyahu over the years has shifted Israel 's traditionally wall-to-wall bipartisan American political base to the partisan Right , starting in the 1990s with a partnership with GOP Speaker Newt Gingrich by provoking each party to out-Israel the other . But it deteriorated to an alarming level the longer Bibi was in office . <p> Most American Jews and Democrats , the party that consistently wins Jewish votes by 3:1 margins , were increasingly uncomfortable with Netanyahu 's right-wing governments dominated by religious and nationalist extremists . Republicans , particularly the religious Right , were much more receptive . <p> TODAY NETANYAHU sees his and Israel 's American political base among the Evangelicals , ultra-Orthodox Jews and hard-core Jewish conservatives . Evangelicals dominate Trump 's MAGA base , and despite their avowed love of Israel , their first loyalty is to their president . If he turns on Bibi , they will follow . And the prime minister , particularly this prime minister , ca n't turn back to the Democrats , where he has burned so many bridges . <p> An attempt by Senate progressives , led by Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont , to block selected munitions sales to Israel last month garnered 19 votes , not enough to block but more than enough to cause considerable concern . Observers say that if it had been a secret ballot , the vote would have been much higher . Many senators with longstanding pro-Israel records , including three Jewish lawmakers , accused Israel of not doing enough to get food , medicine and other basic supplies to Gaza civilians . <p> How much of that may dissipate if Bibi is replaced by a centrist government is open to speculation , but there is no denying that much damage has already been done to hopes for restoring Israel 's historic bipartisan support . <h> Trump 's threats added impetus to a deal ? <p> Biden administration officials are crediting Trump 's " hell to pay " threats with adding impetus to a deal that both sides long avoided in preference to watching the other one suffer . Hamas seemed to have little concern about the Palestinians casualty toll so long as Israel was suffering international condemnation and domestic unrest for its scorched-earth warfare . <p> Trump is popular in Israel , where a pre-election poll by the Israel Democracy Institute showed 72% of Jewish Israelis preferred the MAGA candidate , virtually the opposite of how Jewish Americans just voted . <p> In his Time magazine " Person of the Year " interview , Trump indicated he does n't care one way or the other about the two-state solution , a long-standing US policy pushed hard by Biden . It 's just one of " numerous " options , he said . " What I want is a deal where there 's going to be peace and where the killing stops . " <p> He made Netanyahu very happy by naming former Arkansas Gov . Mike Huckabee as the next US ambassador . A frequent visitor to Israel , he is a Southern Baptist preacher who opposes Palestinian statehood , supports annexation of the West Bank and denies the existence of the Palestinian people . <p> IN THE AFTERMATH of October 7 and the Gaza war , most Israelis oppose a two-state solution , and support among American Jews has softened . Biden said the war shows the need for statehood , and Netanyahu insisted that it is proof this must never happen . <p> Bishara Bahba , the Palestinian American leader of Arab Americans for Trump , told Israeli Channel 12 that the president-elect " 100% " committed himself to a two-state solution . He worked closely courting Arab and Palestinian votes for Trump with American-Lebanese businessman Massad Boulos , who was rewarded with the post of senior White House advisor on Arab and Middle East affairs . Boulos just happens to be the father-in-law of Trump 's daughter Tiffany . ( His other daughter 's father-in-law , a convicted felon like Trump , was named ambassador to France . ) <p> Netanyahu has not given up on annexing major West Bank settlement blocs , if not more . Trump said he " stopped " that in his first term as a concession to several Arab states for signing the historic Abraham Accords . <p> Both men want Saudi Arabia to join the accords , but in the wake of the Gaza war , the Saudis have upped the ante to include serious Israel-Palestinian negotiations about statehood . Netanyahu rejects Palestinian sovereignty , but he 's been known to engage in negotiations that seemed serious but were going nowhere . The prize for the Saudis is a mutual defense treaty with the United States and civil nuclear cooperation ; Trump and Netanyahu will look for flexibility when it comes to the Palestinians . <p> The Chanukamas gift Bibi would like to give his friend Donald is the Gaza ceasefire he 's demanding ( the holidays last eight to 12 days ) , and for Inauguration Day , do n't be surprised if he brings along a freed American-Israeli hostage . <p> Trump is still grousing that he did n't get the Nobel Peace Prize for the Abraham Accords . Bibi probably thinks they both were cheated out of that recognition . Maybe by signing up the Saudis , mollifying the Palestinians and ending the wars in Gaza and Ukraine , there 's a chance . <p> ' T is the season for sugar plums dancing in the heads that think they wear crowns . <p> The writer is a Washington-based journalist , consultant , lobbyist , and a former legislative director at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee .
