<p> " Ireland is one of the most anti-Zionist countries in the Western world , " Ireland 's Chief Rabbi Yoni Wieder told The Jerusalem Post 's Editor-in-Chief Zvika Klein on The Jerusalem Post Podcast in May . <p> " It really plays out on so many levels of society , " he explained . " In the government , the opposition parties , the media , schools , and universities . And while we 're very grateful there has n't been a lot of violence for the most part -- definitely compared to what we 've seen in other countries -- there have been extremely strong anti-Zionist sentiments , and the criticism of Israel is disproportionate to what we see in other countries . " <p> The World Jewish Congress says , based on 2023 figures , that there are some 2,700 Jews living in Ireland , some of them Israelis . It was in May that Israel recalled its ambassador in Dublin , Dana Erlich , after Ireland joined Spain and Norway in unilaterally recognizing a Palestinian state . In November , the Irish parliament passed a nonbinding motion declaring that " genocide is being perpetrated before our eyes by Israel in Gaza . " The final straw came last week when Ireland announced its support for the South African lawsuit against Israel at the International Court of Justice in The Hague , accusing Israel of genocide against the Palestinians . <p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar decided to take strong action , and on Sunday he announced the closure of the embassy due to the " extreme anti-Israel policy of the Irish government . " He said : " The antisemitic actions and rhetoric that Ireland is taking against Israel are based on delegitimization and demonization of the Jewish state and on double standards . " ( Illustrative ) Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar over a back drop of an Irish and Palestinian flag . ( credit : Canva , Clodagh Kilcoyn/Reuters , OLIVIER FITOUSSI/FLASH90 ) <p> Not everyone agreed with the decision . Opposition leader Yair Lapid slammed Sa'ar , accusing him of taking the wrong approach . " The decision ... is a victory for antisemitism and anti-Israel organizations , " Lapid wrote on X. " The way to deal with criticism is not to run away but to stay and fight . " <p> Irish Prime Minister Simon Harris called Israel 's decision " deeply regrettable . " He wrote on X : " I utterly reject the assertion that Ireland is anti-Israel . Ireland is pro-peace , pro-human rights and pro-international law . " For his part , Irish Foreign Minister Miche ? l Martin said the two countries would continue to maintain diplomatic relations and there were no plans to close Ireland 's embassy in Israel . <p> Maurice Cohen , chair of the Jewish Representative Council of Ireland , said he opposed the embassy closure . " It is regrettable that circumstances have led the Israeli government to believe that closing the embassy in Dublin is the best course of action , " Cohen said . " It will have a deeply personal impact on many Irish citizens with Israeli roots , including members of our own community . It is crucial that both governments recognize the broader implications of their decisions , not just for bilateral relations but for the people they affect directly . " <p> Rabbi Wieder said the decision to close the embassy " will be a blow for Israeli individuals and families living in Ireland , many of whom have contributed tremendously to the Jewish community in Ireland . " <p> Speaking to Irish broadcaster RT ? , Ambassador Erlich said closing the embassy had been a " tough decision . " Responding to concerns from the Jewish and Israeli communities in Ireland about the decision , she said : " We direct those concerns to the Irish government , the government that needs to make sure that they are safe , that there is a future for the Jewish community in Ireland . These assurances need to be made . " <p> Rabbi Yitzhak HaLevi Herzog , the father of president Chaim Herzog and grandfather of President Isaac Herzog , served as Ireland 's first chief rabbi , strongly supporting Catholic Ireland 's struggle for independence while condemning all forms of discrimination against members of other faiths , before he made aliyah and became Ashkenazi chief rabbi of Israel . <p> In his memory , we echo Maurice Cohen 's call on both the Irish and Israeli governments " to seek pathways to rebuild trust and to ensure that avenues for diplomatic engagement remain open . Ireland has the potential to play a constructive role on the global stage , and it is our hope that this potential will be directed toward fostering understanding and reconciliation . "
