<h> An open letter from mathematicians against the genocide in Gaza <p> A damaged gate of Al-Aqsa university , which was destroyed during Israel 's military offensive , stands in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Stripon April 14 , 2024 File : Reuters/Doaa Rouqa <p> On October 7 , 2023 , Hamas carried out a terrorist attack in Israel , killing more than 1,200 people out of a population of 9.5 million , including over 800 civilians and at least 33 children , and injuring 5,400 more . The attack also led to the capture of 248 hostages , around 100 of whom are still held in Gaza . <p> Since then , the Israeli government has launched a response of genocidal violence against Gaza 's Palestinian population , under the eyes of the international community . By late October 2024 , identified victims had reached 43,061 , including over 13,735 children , 7,216 women , and 3,447 elderly people , with over 100,000 injured , in a population of 2.3 million . Thousands of additional victims remain buried beneath the rubble , uncounted . <p> The Israeli military is now inflicting upon Palestinian civilians at least the equivalent of an October 7 every ten days , and has done so for more than a year . <p> UN Secretary-General Ant ? nio Guterres has described the situation in Gaza as a " crisis of humanity " . In addition to the heavy toll on civilians , this war has led to the massive destruction of Palestinian civilian infrastructure and has forced 90 percent of Gaza 's population into repeated displacement . Most hospitals have been bombed and destroyed , and numerous medical teams have been killed . Constant attacks and blockades on food , water , fuel , medicines , and humanitarian aid cause unbearable suffering for Gaza 's population , who are facing starvation and infectious disease . Children , along with other vulnerable groups , are particularly badly affected . <p> Advertisement <p> In late October 2024 , the Palestinian Ministry of Education , based in Ramallah , reported that Israel had killed over 11,057 schoolchildren and 681 students in Gaza since October 7 , 2023 , and injured over 16,897 schoolchildren and 1,468 students . In total , 441 teachers and education personnel have been killed , and 2,491 injured . At least 117 academics in Gaza have been killed , including Sufian Tayeh , mathematician , theoretical physicist , and president of the Islamic University of Gaza , who was killed along with his family by an Israeli bombing in the Jabaliya refugee camp on December 2 , 2023 . <p> Additionally , 406 schools in Gaza have been damaged , with 77 completely destroyed . Gaza 's universities have been gravely impacted , with 20 institutions damaged , 51 buildings completely demolished , and 57 partially destroyed . As a result , nearly 88,000 students and 700,000 schoolchildren in Gaza have been deprived of education for more than a year . <p> On January 26 , 2024 , the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) ruled that there was a risk of genocide and ordered Israel to take measures to prevent it . On March 28 , the ICJ reiterated this order , requiring implementation of these preventive measures . Then , on May 24 , the ICJ ordered Israel to immediately halt its military offensive in Rafah and to open the Rafah crossing to allow unimpeded access to humanitarian services and aid for civilians . <p> These orders seem to have been entirely disregarded , and attacks on civilians in Gaza have intensified , especially in the north , with a clear aim to depopulate this region of Palestinians . On September 30 , 2024 , after days of aerial bombardment , the Israeli military also invaded Lebanon , killing at least 1,600 people and displacing 1.2 million . <p> Advertisement <p> Israeli government human rights violations extend beyond the Gaza Strip and do not begin as a reprisal for the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack . In the West Bank , since October 7 , 2023 , 79 schoolchildren and 35 students have been killed , with hundreds more injured or arrested . Systematic , widespread human rights violations , such as land confiscation , resource plundering , and racial discrimination , have been well-documented over 57 years of occupation of Palestinian territories and 17 years of Gaza 's blockade . <p> On July 19 , 2024 , the ICJ issued an advisory opinion on " the legal consequences arising from Israel 's policies and practices in the Occupied Palestinian Territory ( OPT ) , including East Jerusalem and Gaza " , unequivocally declaring Israel 's occupation illegal and calling for its immediate cessation . The ICJ underscored that the responsibility not to support this illegal practice falls not only on third-party states but also on all institutions that uphold international law , including universities . <p> The scientific community has often mobilised in the past to defend human rights and international law . In an open letter published in the New York Times in December 1948 , cosigned by Hannah Arendt and Albert Einstein , the authors denounced the visit of Menahem Begin , leader of the Tnuat Haherut party , precursor to Likud ( the party of current Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ) , in these terms : " Among the most disturbing political phenomena of our times is the emergence in the newly created state of Israel of the " Freedom Party " ( Tnuat Haherut ) , a political party closely akin in its organization , methods , political philosophy and social appeal to the Nazi and Fascist parties . It was formed out of the membership and following of the former Irgun Zvai Leumi , a terrorist , right-wing , chauvinist organization in Palestine .... It is in its actions that the terrorist party betrays its real character ; from its past actions we can judge what it may be expected to do in the future . A shocking example was their behavior in the Arab village of Deir Yassin . This village , off the main roads and surrounded by Jewish lands , had taken no part in the war , and had even fought off Arab bands who wanted to use the village as their base . On April 9 , terrorist bands attacked this peaceful village , which was not a military objective in the fighting , killed most of its inhabitants -- 240 men , women , and children -- and kept a few of them alive to parade as captives through the streets of Jerusalem . Most of the Jewish community was horrified at the deed , and the Jewish Agency sent a telegram of apology to King Abdullah of Trans-Jordan . But the terrorists , far from being ashamed of their act , were proud of this massacre , publicized it widely , and invited all the foreign correspondents present in the country to view the heaped corpses and the general havoc at Deir Yassin . " <p> Advertisement <p> For more than a year now , the Israeli government and its military forces have been committing the equivalent of a Deir Yassin massacre every day in Gaza , while the scientific community largely remains silent . Yet , as the open letter above demonstrates , this community has already strongly opposed attacks on civilians , whether during the Algerian and Vietnam wars or , more recently , in response to Russia 's invasion of Ukraine . Scientists , particularly mathematicians , can not remain indifferent to the ongoing genocide in Gaza , especially as Western powers appear to support this crime against humanity politically , diplomatically , and militarily . <p> Enough is enough . We urge our colleagues to cease all scientific collaboration with Israeli institutions that do not explicitly condemn the genocide in Gaza and the illegal colonisation of Palestine . We also encourage them to put pressure on our own institutions to terminate agreements with these partners under the same conditions , in accordance with international law . This position obviously does not include individual collaborations with Israeli colleagues , 3,400 of whom have courageously signed a call to the international community , which we wish to support , " to intervene immediately by applying any possible sanctions against Israel to achieve an immediate ceasefire between Israel and its neighbors , for the future of the people living in Israel/Palestine and the region , and to guarantee their right to security and life . " Finally , we demand that our institutions scrupulously respect academic freedoms and resolutely uphold freedom of expression in accordance with the law . <p> Advertisement <p> Signatories ( petition closed on December 4 , 2024 with 1078 signatories ) :
