<h> Why is Christian Science in our name ? <p> Our name is about honesty . The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church , and we 've always been transparent about that . <p> The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world . Since 1908 , we 've aimed " to injure no man , but to bless all mankind , " as our founder , Mary Baker Eddy , put it . <p> Here , you 'll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences -- a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope . <p> I 'm excited about Sophie Hills ' story in today 's issue . One reason is that it is fascinating -- a look at the growth and evolution of " cultural Christianity , " and what that says about the United States and American religion today.But just as exciting : It is Sophie 's first story in her new role as our faith and religion writer . She 'll focus on the intersection of religion and politics , culture , and ideas . And today 's article is a great start . <p> The Christian Science Monitor is an international news organization offering calm , thoughtful , award-winning coverage for independent thinkers . We tackle difficult conversations and divisive issues -- we do n't shy away from hard problems . But you 'll find in each Monitor news story qualities that can lead to solutions and unite us -- qualities such as respect , resilience , hope , and fairness . <p> The Islamic regime in Iran has had a bad run lately . The collapse of its ally in Syria . The weakening of its proxy militias in Gaza and Lebanon . Embarrassing intelligence failures . Bombardments by Israel . Rarely has Tehran been more isolated . <p> Yet on Tuesday , when supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei vowed in a public address that " The resistance to Israel and the West is not over , " he also spoke of a vulnerability from within . <p> " Everyone , especially women , should be vigilant about the enemy 's soft tactics and not be deceived by slogans and temptations , " he said . By " advocating for women 's rights ... they incite unrest in the country . " <p> The ayatollah 's warning comes amid a resurgence of the women 's rights movement that erupted two years ago when a young woman died while in police custody after being detained for not covering her hair properly . The incident kindled the most vigorous pro-democracy protests since the 1979 Islamic Revolution . Violent crackdowns drove the resistance underground , although many women continued to defy the hijab laws . Two factors have now brought it back into the open . <p> The first is a bill that would impose severe restrictions on women 's public attire as well as penalties for anyone -- including cabdrivers and restaurant owners -- seen to be abetting violations of its provisions . The second is the temporary release of Narges Mohammadi , the women 's rights activist awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last year , from prison for medical reasons . <p> Both of these factors may come to a head in the coming days . Approved by lawmakers in 2023 , the Law on Supporting the Family Through the Promotion of the Culture of Chastity and Hijab may be enacted as soon as this weekend . Ms. Mohammadi is due back in prison a few days later . <p> The regime has reason to be worried . Iranians are already battered by rolling power outages , mandatory rationing of winter heating oil , and a currency in free fall . In recent days , civil society groups have gathered tens of thousands of signatures on petitions opposing the new hijab law . <p> On Dec. 14 , the head of the Supreme National Security Council requested a delay in implementing the law . Even the measure 's supporters agree that it is probably unenforceable . <p> " Society has moved forward , yet officials are pushing a law that risks further alienation , " Azar Mansouri , a reformist leader , told Foreign Policy . <p> Nobel laureate Ms. Mohammadi , meanwhile , has used her brief freedom well . She spoke with the Nobel committee for the first time , resulting in international calls for her permanent release . On Tuesday , she spoke with CNN . " Whether I am inside Evin Prison or outside Evin , my goal is very clear , and until we achieve democracy , we are not going to stop . We want freedom and we want equality , " she said . <p> Swift turns in global events may alter the course of nations , yet in Iran , the battle over veils has unveiled a mental liberation . " Today , in Islamic Iran , women are experiencing an unprecedented awakening , actively pursuing education and striving to secure their rightful demands , " declared Mawlana Abdol Hamid , a leader of Iran 's minority Sunni Muslims , earlier this month . " Demanding one 's rights is not a cause for concern ; rather , it reflects the vitality and liveliness of a nation . " <p> You 've read of free articles . Subscribe to continue . <h> Help fund Monitor journalism for $11/ month <p> Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in . We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations . <h> Digital subscription includes : <p> What is the Monitor difference ? Tackling the tough headlines -- with humanity . Listening to sources -- with respect . Seeing the story that others are missing by reporting what so often gets overlooked : the values that connect us . That 's Monitor reporting -- news that changes how you see the world . <p> About a year ago , I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review -- under the charming heading of " do things that do n't interest you " : <p> " Many things that end up " being meaningful , writes social scientist Joseph Grenny , " have come from conference workshops , articles , or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight . My work in Kenya , for example , was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier . Sometimes , we call things ' boring ' simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in . " <p> If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor , that would probably be it . We 're seen as being global , fair , insightful , and perhaps a bit too earnest . We 're the bran muffin of journalism . <p> But you know what ? We change lives . And I 'm going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in . <p> The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that 's hard for the world to figure out . We 're run by a church , but we 're not only for church members and we 're not about converting people . We 're known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper 's founding in 1908 . <p> We have a mission beyond circulation , we want to bridge divides . We 're about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying , " You are bigger and more capable than you realize . And we can prove it . " <p> If you 're looking for bran muffin journalism , you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15 . You 'll get the Monitor Weekly magazine , the Monitor Daily email , and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com.
