<p> The cast list for Scream VII is coming together . Varietyhas reported per sources that Courteney Cox will reprise her role as Gale Weathers in the forthcoming film , which places her alongside Neve Campbell and Mason Gooding on the franchise 's list of returning actors . <p> Scream VII will be released in theaters on Feb. 27 , 2025 . Kevin Williamson will direct the film with a screenplay from Guy Busick . Williamson took on the role for the seventh installment of the franchise after its previously attached director Christopher Landon made his exit in 2023 . " It was a dream job that turned into a nightmare , " Landon said at the time . " And my heart did break for everyone involved . " <p> " It 's been nearly 30 years since my very first script , Scream , was directed by the legendary Wes Craven . I never would have predicted what it would become . Or that I would be directing the seventh installment of the franchise , " Williamson shared earlier this year . " I am overcome with gratitude and excitement , and I ca n't wait to take this journey with Neve and the entire Scream family as we bring back Sidney Prescott in the next chapter of the Scream franchise . Thank you to all the Scream fans . You are the gift that keeps giving . " <p> Campbell 's appearance as Sidney Prescott in Scream VII will mark her first appearance since 2022 's Scream . She was notably absent from Scream VI due to a salary conflict with the film 's producers . Cox and Gooding , who plays Chad Meeks-Martin , both appeared in the most recent installation . <p> Their return follows the unexpected departure of Melissa Barrera , who was fired from the horror franchise by production company Spyglass Media Group after sharing social media posts raising awareness for the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . Fan-favorite Jenna Ortega also exited Scream VIIshortly after Barrera was removed from the project . <p> " I 'm not the first person that 's happened to , but it was shocking , " Barrera told Rolling Stoneearlier this year . " I think everything that happened was very transparent , on both sides , and I know who I am , and I know that what I said always came from a place of love and a place of humanity and a place of human rights and a place of freedom for people , which should n't be controversial . "
