<h> The Cost of Lawlessness on the West Bank <p> Israeli soldiers in Beit Furik , a town in the occupied West Bank where Jewish settlers burned the property of Palestinian families ( Nasser Ishtayeh / SOPA Images / LightRocket / Getty ) <p> December 19 , 2024 , 10:46 AM ET <p> It was a normal morning during the autumn olive harvest . On a hillside northeast of Ramallah , on November 8 , a group of roughly 15 or 20 Palestinians from the village of Deir Jarir were picking dark olives , the most important agricultural product in the occupied West Bank , from low , young trees . <p> With them were volunteers from the Israeli group Rabbis for Human Rights , along with Rabbi Arik Ascherman , the leader of Torat Tzedek , a group whose name translates to " Torah of Justice . " They 'd come to help with the harvest and to act as a buffer between the Palestinians and any Israeli settlers who might decide to give them trouble . <p> A few minutes after they began , a settler came down the hillside , cursing and shouting at everyone to leave . A shaky video from a volunteer 's phone shows him shoving villagers and Ascherman . A dozen or more young male settlers soon followed , wearing masks and waving clubs . At another nearby grove , settlers hurled stones , injuring one of the Palestinian pickers . <p> Next to show up was a handful of Israeli soldiers . The commander presented his phone , showing a freshly issued order declaring the groves a closed military area , off-limits to civilians . Ascherman protested , pointing to a 2006 Israeli supreme-court ruling banning the army from closing an agricultural area to Palestinian farmers in order to end a clash in which the farmers themselves were under attack . <p> Then the police arrived . They arrested not the settlers but Ascherman , along with a staff member of Rabbis for Human Rights named Dolev Assaf , and a volunteer wearing a T-shirt with the words Fuck Ben-Gvir , referring to Itamar Ben-Gvir , the far-right minister of national security , who oversees the police . Ascherman was released under a court order banning him from the West Bank for 15 days . At the hearing , he told me , a police investigator referred to him as an " anarchist . " <p> This account is based on videos and on interviews with Ascherman , Assaf , and others . No settlers were arrested or identified . But the settlers succeeded in their apparent goal : The farmers of Deir Jarir were kept off their land and could not harvest their olives . The settlers went unpunished . <p> The threats , the violence , and the unfair outcome were what made that day outside Ramallah a normal one . The Israeli human-rights group Yesh Din ( " There Is Law " ) has documented 114 incidents of violence by settlers or soldiers against Palestinians engaged in harvesting olives in the 49 days from October 1 to November 18 . The distinction between soldiers and settlers has blurred , particularly during the current war . Yesh Din stressed that its list of attacks on Palestinians was not complete . These were only attacks connected to the olive harvest . <p> The larger picture is especially grim : Settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank has leaped , as reported by the Israeli media and human-rights groups . Especially since the establishment of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's current hard-right government two years ago , " you see this explosion , this eruption " of settler violence , Sarit Michaeli , the international-outreach director for the rights organization B'Tselem , told me . And in that time , law enforcement has virtually vanished , the attorney Roni Pelli of the Association for Civil Rights in Israel told me . <p> Keeping statistics on the violence has been beyond B'Tselem 's resources , Michaeli said , because it would require investigating each case . Deciding what to count as an incident is also " a minefield , " she said . Some cases are obvious , such as when masked settlers entered the village of Huwara , in the northern West Bank , on December 4 ; set fire to a house and two vehicles ; and attacked one man with staffs and stones , reportedly fracturing his skull . Other cases are harder to categorize , such as when settlers return to an olive grove and threaten farmers they 've previously attacked , causing the farmers to flee . <p> Here 's one sign of the escalation : In September 2023 , B'Tselem reported that over the previous two years , about 480 Palestinians had abandoned their homes and fled from six hamlets in the West Bank , in large part because of settler attacks . A little more than a year later , at the end of this past October , Palestinians from 20 additional communities and single-farm families had left their homes -- a total of nearly 1,200 people in just more than half the time . <p> In principle , Israel 's national police force should be a source of statistics on crimes by Israelis against Palestinians in the West Bank . In reality , there 's been a " sharp drop " in the number of Palestinians willing to file complaints , Yesh Din 's executive director , Ziv Stahl , told me , as trust of the police has diminished dramatically . ( Spokespeople for the Israeli police and military declined to comment for this story . ) <p> Violence in the West Bank goes both ways ; Palestinians have attacked Israeli soldiers , police , and civilians . Last Wednesday , for instance , a Palestinian gunman opened fire on an Israeli bus in the West Bank , killing a 12-year-old boy and wounding three other passengers . The difference is that the Israeli army and security services seek to prevent these attacks and to catch the perpetrators . The bus attack set off a 10-hour manhunt , at the end of which the perpetrator surrendered to Israeli forces . In the case of settler violence , such efforts appear to be sporadic and half-hearted . <p> This problem dates to the early years of Israeli settlement in occupied territory . In 1982 , then -- Israeli Deputy Attorney General Yehudit Karp issued a report that detailed the failure of Israeli police to investigate offenses by settlers against Palestinians . As Karp told me in a 2009 interview , the army and police had regarded their role as protecting Israelis , not Palestinians . <p> However difficult to record and quantify , the trend is clear : In recent years and months , settler attacks on Palestinians have grown in frequency , and the perpetrators have faced fewer consequences . Three factors are responsible . A new form of settlement has brought more radical settlers closer to Palestinian communities that are hard to protect , because they are scattered and rural . The Hamas attack on Israel and the subsequent war in Gaza have elevated tensions between Israelis and Palestinians in the West Bank . And Netanyahu 's government has put extremist settlers , including Ben-Gvir , in key positions of authority . <p> Until the 1990s , most Israeli settlements in the West Bank took one of two forms : large suburban towns near the Green Line -- the pre-1967 border -- and smaller exurbs deeper in occupied territory . The exurban settlements were intended to prevent even a partial Israeli withdrawal , and they attracted particularly ideological , religious-nationalist settlers . Yet even they actually covered only a small part of West Bank land . <p> In the 1990s , after the Oslo Accords , a new type of settlement sprang up . Many of these so-called outposts began as a handful of mobile homes on a hilltop near an established settlement . Their purpose was to fill in gaps between the older settlements , break up Palestinian-populated land , and thereby prevent the creation of a contiguous Palestinian state . In 1998 , then -- Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon set the tone in a radio interview , telling settlers they should " run , should grab more hills ... Everything we do n't grab will be in the Palestinians ' hands . " Many of the outposts were home to the most extreme of all settlers . I have been visiting settlements for many years in the course of my reporting ; when I went to the outposts , I was dismayed by the radical readings of Judaism I heard -- at the extreme , asserting the settlers ' right to the real estate around them , the olive trees , the fruits of the harvest . Clashes with local Palestinians increased . <p> Yet the outposts were mere dots on hilltops , and the settler movement 's leaders and government backers feared that the settlement project still lacked control of the countryside . Beginning a bit more than a decade ago , the movement supported another burst of new settlements -- most of them farms , each populated by a family and a few young people . According to a recent Haaretzreport , there were just 23 such farms in 2017 -- and about 90 today . <p> The farm campaign is backed by Amana , an organization that has played a major role in settlement building for decades . In an interview last year in a settler magazine , Amana 's head , Ze'ev ( Zambish ) Hever , said that the organization 's goal is to hold as much open land as possible in reserve for future settlement . To that end , most farm settlers herd goats , sheep , or cattle over large areas . These farms " hold two and a half times as much land " as all the previous settlements combined , Hever said . <p> Officially , the farms are illegal -- they were established without government approval -- but very few have been forced to evacuate , especially under the current government . Hagit Ofran , who works for Settlement Watch , an investigative project that is part of Peace Now , told me that the farm settlements are even receiving state support . Through one channel , she said , some farms have received grazing permits on what Israel had previously ( and controversially ) designated state-owned land . Through another channel , farms have been allocated funds for security equipment , including all-terrain vehicles , camera systems , and drones . <p> Drones , Ofran said , are sometimes used to frighten Palestinians ' herds and drive them off the land . Incidents of settlers from the farms harassing Palestinians are a daily matter , she asserted . <p> Many of the farms are at the southern end of the West Bank and on the hills overlooking the Jordan Valley , where pasture land fades into desert . A number are near Palestinian herding hamlets , B'Tselem 's Michaeli said -- " some of the poorest " Palestinian communities . Once a farming outpost is established , she said , the nearby Palestinians start to experience incidents of arson , cut water pipes , and the like . The result , Michaeli said , is " like a war of attrition " in rural areas . And behind the scenes , the government backs one side . <p> Throughout occupied territory , clashes between settlers and Palestinians spiked when the war began last year . Understandably , many settlers feared that they 'd be the next target of a Hamas onslaught . " I 'm not discounting the trauma and fear " that Israelis , including settlers , experienced after October 7 , Michaeli told me . But some settlers , she asserted , also seized a " golden opportunity " to harass their Palestinian neighbors . <p> Six weeks after the start of the war , the Association for Civil Rights in Israel and other groups sent a letter to Netanyahu , the military chief of staff , and the national police chief listing a dizzying number of settler attacks . Nine Palestinians had been killed ; 160 families had been forced to leave their homes . In the village of Kisan , the letter said , " settlers attacked village residents and fired live rounds , in front of soldiers , " wounding several residents . At Khirbet Yarza , settlers " stole about 50 cows . " The army and the police , the letter indicated , had failed to protect Palestinians in the West Bank . <p> In many cases , the settlers had worn army uniforms . That apparently fits another pattern : Regular army units that had been deployed in the West Bank were redeployed to fight in Gaza . To protect settlements , the military called up settlers for reserve duty and assigned them to regional defense units . So in some cases , said Pelli , the civil-rights lawyer , the " settlers who rioted " in a village are the same people as the soldiers who are supposed to deal with the incident . And in these or other cases , settlers who had previously harassed villagers apparently now did so in uniform , with even greater impunity . In July , Major General Yehuda Fox , the outgoing head of the Israel Defense Forces ' Central Command , which is responsible for the West Bank , acknowledged the increase in settler violence and admitted , " It was my responsibility to act . And , unfortunately , I did not always succeed . " <p> The makeup of Netanyahu 's government has contributed to the sense among settlers of being beyond the law . The ruling coalition includes two far-right parties headed by settlers . Netanyahu gave one of them , Bezalel Smotrich , the head of the Religious Zionist Party , control over most aspects of settlement , including granting legal status to outposts established in defiance of Israeli law . One such outpost is home to a Knesset member from Smotrich 's party , Simcha Rothman , a key figure in the government 's effort to eviscerate Israel 's judicial system . <p> Ben-Gvir , also a settler and the leader of the Jewish Power Party , received the Ministry of National Security , which administers the national police force . By law and tradition , the minister 's control of the police is limited , with operative decisions , such as how to handle an investigation or a disturbance , the sole province of professional police , not politicians . But Ben-Gvir has repeatedly crossed that line . <p> The effect on how the police handle -- or do n't handle -- settler violence is best illustrated by the case of Avishai Mualem , the officer in charge of the serious-crimes investigation unit in the West Bank police district . In a Knesset subcommittee hearing in March , Mualem testified that the number of complaints filed with the police regarding violence by settlers had dropped by half since the beginning of the war , compared with the same period the year before . In the southern sector of the West Bank , the South Hebron Hills , half of the complaints had been false , he said . He blamed " anarchists " -- apparently meaning Israelis who volunteer to assist Palestinians . <p> In early November , the outgoing defense minister , Yoav Gallant , summoned Mualem 's superior , the commander of the West Bank district , for a meeting . Gallant reportedly meant to reprove the officer for failing to do enough about settler violence . A source in Gallant 's office told the Israeli media that Ben-Gvir had blocked the meeting -- and had asserted that " there is no such concept as ' settler violence . ' " <p> Mualem was arrested on December 2 by an independent unit in the state attorney 's office that investigates crime within the police force . Mualem is alleged to have failed to arrest Jews suspected of terror attacks , at Ben-Gvir 's request , and leaked police-intelligence information to the minister , all in return for rapid advancement . Because of the alleged quid pro quo , the potential charges include bribery . Mualem denies the allegations . But if the claims are correct , then the police failure to crack down on settler violence is a matter of policy , dictated by Ben-Gvir . <p> Settlers who attack Palestinians surely suspect as much . And the price that Palestinians in the West Bank pay for the resulting lawlessness includes the loss of crops , homes , and lives . <p> Israelis pay a less obvious price that is nonetheless quite real . From its start , the settlement enterprise has been tainted by disregard for the rule of law . The first Israeli settlement , in the Golan Heights in the summer of 1967 , received funds fraudulently allocated by a government ministry . Soon after that , the first settlement in the West Bank was established in knowing violation of international law . A 2005 report detailed how the outposts established in the previous decade , in violation of Israeli law , received funding and other support from government ministries . Enforcement of the law against violent settlers has been sporadic all along . <p> The goal of settlement in occupied territory has always been to change the borders of Israel . But an essential element of a democratic state is the rule of law . The failure to stop settler violence is the latest sign that in the bid to expand Israel 's territory , the settlement project corrodes the foundations of the state itself . <h> About the Author <p> Gershom Gorenberg is a contributing writer for The Atlantic . He is an Israeli journalist and historian whose most recent book is War of Shadows : Codebreakers , Spies , and the Secret Struggle to Drive the Nazis from the Middle East .
