<h> HART : Washington Drones On While Trump Essentially Assumes Power <p> OPINION <p> US President Joe Biden shakes hands with US President-elect Donald Trump during a meeting in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington , DC , on November 13 , 2024 . Trump thanked Biden for pledging a smooth transfer of power as the victorious Republican made a historic return visit to the White House on Wednesday . ( Photo by SAUL LOEB/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> D.C. 's feckless response to all the drones over New Jersey was both arrogant and indifferent . Either the government is lying to us , or it does not know what is going on . Neither one is good . <p> The lights in the sky might be an alien planet 's UFOs . They are hovering over New Jersey and seem stuck , probably because they have yet to find any intelligent life there . <p> Biden , checked out and bitter , has not weighed in on the 5,000 drone sightings . He gets nervous about drones flying at night , and at his age is afraid to follow any light in the distance . <p> Biden is too busy trying to shovel taxpayer money out the door to Democrat bagmen and throwing rocks under Trump 's wheels . They are selling border wall materials for 5 cents on the dollar so we have to pay more for it soon . <p> And , what lame-duck president with just a few weeks remaining allows U.S. missiles to be shot into Russia ? With Syria , Gaza , Iran , Houthis in the Red Sea and Israel on fire , Biden is making everything worse . It would be nice if his foreign policy was more about resolution of conflict than fulfilling ancient Biblical prophesies . <p> We sold thousands of anti-aircraft missiles to the Israelis so they can shoot down hundreds of fighter jets that Iran bought from us with money Biden released to the Mullahs . Kids on our woke college campuses heard that Israel shot down incoming Iranian missiles and are probably protesting the genocide of innocent Muslim missiles . <p> On a positive seasonal message , Israel returned fire on Iran , firing missiles over Iraq to Iran , thus marking the first time Iraqis observed Passover . And the Biden family will sit down to their Christmas dinner , hold hands , close their eyes and get their stories straight . <p> Ukraine just killed a Russian military leader . I got my Russian Orthodox Advent calendar last week , but each time I open one of the windows a Russian dissident is thrown out . <p> It is a tense world the Biden administration has given us . It is so hard to watch the news that to relax I flip over to Netflix to watch the Menendez brothers ' murder trials . <p> Between the domestic racial divide stoked by Biden/Harris , and a potential World War III unfolding , it is a footrace to see which one delays the Super Bowl . Now Germany seems to want to be involved in Ukraine . Another World War without Germany would just seem empty . <p> Kamala is checked out and bitter too , blaming everyone for her loss . As we have learned , most drunks refuse to go quietly into the night . <p> Karine Jean-Pierre , Biden 's press secretary , is going home for the holidays to rest and is looking forward to spending more time lying to her family . <p> The good news ? Trump is taking charge . He is our de facto president , holding court at Mar-a-Lago , the Southern White House . Trump is busy planning MAHA with RFK Jr . by taking on the FDA , Big Food and Big Pharma . It needs rethinking . For example , Viagra : In other countries you can get it over the counter -- especially if you take more than one . <p> The biggest investor in the world , the CEO of SoftBank , came to visit and said that , because of his optimism about Trump 's presidency , he is investing $100 billion in the U.S. Biden was outraged . That money could have been given during his term and directed to Hunter Biden through Ukraine . He would not even have to set up a shell company now . With his pardon in his pocket , Hunter could just take the money via Venmo . It is the only thing the Biden administration has done to cut red tape . <p> Federal authorities , with the scant credibility they have left , warned us not to try to shoot down drones . Anthony Fauci chimed in and said until we develop a vaccine for drones , follow the science and stay at home or 6 feet away and wear a mask when drones appear . <p> The drones come at a bad time as they head south . The likelihood of us shooting them down is high . Sneaked into the huge spending bill Congress just passed is the gratuitous naming of the bald eagle as our national bird . It passed with all but one vote ; the senator from Louisiana voted to make the KFC 6-piece the national bird . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours .
