<h> Israel carries out airstrikes in Yemen against Houthis <p> Israel carried out airstrikes early Thursday in Yemen in response to a Houthi attack hours earlier , the latest move by Israeli forces to weaken Iran and its proxies in the region . <p> The first wave of strikes hit military targets in the ports of Al-Hudaydah , As-Salif , and Ras Isa , while the second wave focused on targets in Sana'a , according to Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani , an Israeli military spokesman . <p> Israeli military officials said they conducted " precise strikes on Houthi military targets in Yemen , including ports and energy infrastructure in Sana'a , which the Houthis have been using in ways that effectively contributed to their military action . " <p> The strikes killed nine people , according to Al-Masirah , a TV channel affiliated with the Houthis . It came after Israeli military officials said they had intercepted a missile launched from Yemen . The missile , which was not cleanly intercepted by Israel 's air defense systems , hit a school , though it was outside of regular educational hours and no one was hurt . <p> " Israel 's long hand will reach you as well , " Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said in a warning to Houthi leaders following the strikes . " Whoever raises a hand against the State of Israel -- his hand will be cut off . Whoever harms us -- will be harmed sevenfold . " <p> The Houthis have launched several missiles at Israel from Yemen over the past year or so . The attacks began in the aftermath of Hamas 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack in Israel , which the Houthis said was in support of the Palestinians . They also began targeting vessels transiting the areas off of Yemen 's coasts , a primary route for shipping commerce , forcing many companies to avoid the area to instead sail around the Cape of Good Hope , the southernmost part of the African continent . <p> The United States and the United Kingdom have also carried out airstrikes targeting the Houthis ' arsenal and positions , but they have had little impact in stopping the attacks in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden . <p> Israel has conducted some strikes on the Houthis as well , however it has been a much less direct conflict than theirs with Hamas and Hezbollah . Israeli forces have decimated Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon , including taking out several senior leaders of both , including Yahya Sinwar and Hassan Nasrallah , and Israel has asserted its military prowess with targeted strikes inside Iran as well . <p> " The fact of the matter is this all came about because of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's leadership , and some may say stubbornness , to stick to the fight , to keep pressing against Israel 's adversaries in Hamas in the south and Hezbollah in the north , and of course , they 've struck the Houthis , " former Defense Secretary Mark Esper told the Washington Examiner . <p> Israel and Hezbollah are holding up a tenuous ceasefire agreement that both sides have alleged the other has violated . Hezbollah and Hamas 's ranks have been much harder than the Houthis . <p> The Biden administration is pushing Netanyahu to get a ceasefire deal accomplished with both Hamas and Hezbollah , " and certainly with regard to Hezbollah , Bibi ignored President Biden and pressed the case , " Esper added . " We had the killing of Nasrallah . Then we had the pager attacks . It all happened fairly quickly , Israel invades , the next thing you know , Israel has taken out , by their account , most of Hezbollah 's rockets and missiles and launchers , and , of course , took out their leadership ranks . " <p> The recent fall of the Assad regime in Syria has also been a strategic win for Israel and the U.S. , though the actions of the country 's new leaders could determine just how much of a victory it actually was . Assad was an ally of Iran , Hezbollah , and Russia , and with him in power , Iran had a direct land route to get weapons to Hezbollah in Lebanon through Iraq and Syria .
