<h> Hamas ' Gaza death toll questioned as new report says its led to ' widespread inaccuracies and distortion ' <p> Hamas ' Gaza death toll questioned as new report says its led to ' widespread inaccuracies and distortion ' <p> A new report cites a laundry list of alleged errors in the casualty tallies that the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health has issued during the conflict in Gaza , and found that worldwide media widely report the inflated numbers with little or no scrutiny . <p> The Henry Jackson Society ( HJS ) , a U.K. based think tank , found " widespread inaccuracies and distortion in the data collection process " for the Hamas-run Gaza Ministry of Health ( MoH ) which has resulted in a " misleading picture of the conflict . " The study also analyzed how journalists worldwide have spread misleading MoH data without noting its shortcomings or offering alternative information from Israeli sources . <p> The report 's author , Andrew Fox , a fellow at HJS said his team 's research is based on lists of casualty figures that the MoH has released through Telegram as well as lists released by the U.N . Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs . Fox said he and his team have been able to examine segments of the reporting , despite changeable MoH data being " really hard to interrogate . " <p> On Tuesday , Gaza health authorities updated its number of dead to what it said was more than 45,000 . <p> " If Israel was killing indiscriminately , you would expect deaths to roughly match the demographic proportions pre-war , " Fox said . At the time , adult men made up around 26% of the Gazan population . " The number of adult males that have died is vastly in excess of 26% , " he said . <p> Within accessible reporting , Fox and his team also found instances of casualty entries being recorded improperly , " artificially increasing the numbers of women and children who are reported as killed . " This has included people with male names being listed as females , and grown adults being recorded as young children . <p> A terrorist from Hamas takes part in a military parade . <p> Analyzing data by category has further highlighted biases within reporting . There are three kinds of entries within MoH 's casualty figures : entries collected by hospitals prior to the breakdown of networks in November 2023 , entries submitted by family members of the deceased , and entries collected through " media sources , " whose veracity researchers like Dr. David Adesnik , vice president of research at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies , has previously questioned . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Analysis of gender breakdowns among these groupings shows that hospital records " are distorted , " with a higher percentage of women and children among hospital-reported casualties than in those reported by family members . <p> Though around 5,000 natural deaths typically occur in Gaza each year , the study found that MoH casualty figures do not account for natural deaths . It claims that it also fails to exclude deaths unassociated with Israeli military action from its count . This includes individuals believed to have been killed by Hamas , like 13-year-old Ahmed Shaddad Halmy Brikeh , who appears on a casualty list from August despite reports indicating he had " been shot dead by Hamas " while trying to get food from an aid shipment in December 2023 . The list also excludes individuals killed by Hamas ' rockets , about 1,750 of which " fell short within the Gaza strip " between October 2023 and July 2024 . <p> Fox and his team also found individuals who died before the conflict began had been added to MoH casualty counts . In addition , at least three cancer patients whose names were included in lists to leave the Gaza Strip for treatment in April had been listed as dead during the month of March . <p> Ambulances carrying victims of Israeli strikes crowd the entrance to the emergency ward of the Al-Shifa hospital in Gaza City on Oct. 15 , 2023 . <p> The ministry does not separate combatants and civilians in its casualty figures . Though the study states that Israeli forces have killed around 17,000 Hamas terrorists , Fox said that his research indicated the death toll may include as many as 22,000 members of Hamas . He said his research supports the fact that around 15,000 of the dead in Gaza are women and children , and 7,500 are non-combatant adult males . <p> " Collecting these sorts of lists in a war zone is a hugely challenging thing , " Fox admitted , but he stated that the MoH 's mistakes , whether innocent or deliberate , show that the institution is " really unreliable . " <p> Despite this unreliability , the Henry Jackson Society 's survey of reporting of the conflict found that 98% of media organizations it looked at utilized fatality data from MoH versus 5% who cited Israeli figures . Fox found that " fewer than one in every 50 articles about the conflict mentioned that the figures provided by the MoH were unverifiable or controversial , " though " Israeli statistics had their credibility questioned in half of the few articles that incorporated them . " <p> Smoke rises near the al-Wafa hospital from Israeli airstrike in Gaza City on Oct. 24 , 2023 . <p> As an illustration of the phenomenon witnessed in the survey , Fox pointed out what he called an " incredibly biased " article from a British broadcaster that recently emerged citing MoH data claiming that there have been more than 45,000 deaths in Gaza . Though its report mentions MoH data , it does not break down the numbers of combatants and civilians , and does not mention the questionable veracity of MoH reporting . Instead , it parrots MoH claims , reporting that women and children make up for over half of the fatalities . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " It 's just a great example of everything we 've written in the report , " Fox said . <p> AI models can deceive , new research from Anthropic shows . " Our demonstration ... should be seen as a spur for the AI research community to study this behavior in more depth , and to work on the appropriate safety measures , " the researchers wrote in a post on Anthropic 's blog . " As AI models become more capable and widely-used , we need to be able to rely on safety training , which nudges models away from harmful behaviors . " <p> The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill Wednesday that has been championed for weeks on Capitol Hill by hotel heiress and reality TV star Paris Hilton . It will now head to President Biden 's desk to be signed into law . <p> Perplexity acquired a small Seattle-based startup called Carbon which specializes in connecting AI systems to external data sources , the companies announced on Wednesday . CEO Aravind Srinivasan says this will allow Perplexity to search through your files and work messages in Notion , Google Docs , Slack , and other enterprise applications sometime in early 2025 . Carbon specializes in retrieval augmented generation , or RAG , which allows large language models to access information from external databases before it generates an answer . <p> A lot of YouTube videos have flashy , misleading titles and thumbnails , such as " BREAKING NEWS " or " The president steps down , " to bait the user into watching the video , which has non-related content . YouTube said Wednesday that it is now cracking down on such videos -- especially if videos cover topics like breaking news or current events -- starting in India . The company noted that it will also start enforcing stricter rules against clickbait titles and thumbnails in the coming months . <p> Microsoft-owned GitHub announced on Wednesday a free version of its popular Copilot code completion/AI pair programming tool , which will also now ship by default with Microsoft 's popular VS Code editor . Until now , most developers had to pay a monthly fee , starting at $10 per month , with only verified students , teachers , and open source maintainers getting free access . GitHub also announced that it now has 150 million developers on its platform , up from 100 million in early 2023.
