<p> A slate of Democratic senators are pressing President Joe Biden to give extra deportation protections to Palestinians before he leaves office , but border hawks say such a move comes with blatant national security risks . <p> " Joe Biden barely knows what day of the week it is , meanwhile his pro-Iran , pro-Hamas staff are trying to jam through a policy to bring thousands of unvetted Palestinians to the United States before his term ends , " Montana Rep. Ryan Zinke , speaking in reaction to Democratic lawmakers ' request , told the Daily Caller News Foundation . " We already know Hamas has infiltrated refugee populations and put their terrorists in civilian groups to plan future attacks . " <p> Zinke , like other border hawks in Washington , D.C. , expressed concern over the possibility of extremist elements within the Palestinian population , and previously drafted legislation that would outright prohibit Palestinians from entering the U.S. Nevertheless , Sens . Peter Welch of Vermont , Dick Durbin of Illinois , Tim Kaine of Virginia and others in their caucus are publicly calling on the Biden administration to roll out deportation protections for this specific group of foreign nationals . <p> TOPSHOT -- An Israeli soldier arranges artillery shells at a position near the border with the Gaza Strip in southern Israel on November 6 , 2023 amid the ongoing battles between Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas in the Gaza Strip . ( Photo by JACK GUEZ / AFP ) ( Photo by JACK GUEZ/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> " For over a year , Israeli bombing and extensive ground operations in Gaza have left over 43,000 Palestinians dead , and core civilian infrastructure largely incapacitated , " the Democrats wrote in their Dec. 12 letter , which appeared to be a critical framing of Israel 's response to the Oct. 7 terrorist attack against its civilian population . " The stability of the West Bank has also worsened since October 7 , 2023 , as violent settlers have increasingly destroyed homes , stolen livestock , demolished olive orchards , and wounded and killed hundreds of Palestinian civilians , including children . " <p> " The presence of this ' ongoing armed conflict ' would clearly ' pose a serious threat ' to the personal safety of Palestinians forced to return home , " the letter continued . <p> TPS and DED are similar in that both designations provide a level of deportation protections and work privileges for foreign nationals living in the U.S. , according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services . However , DED is an administrative stay of removal made by the president which has no statutory basis , whereas TPS can be made at the Department of Homeland Security 's discretion and carries statutory power . <p> Biden granted DED to some Palestinians in the U.S. in February 2024 , but Democrats argue that action did n't go far enough . Meanwhile , immigration hawks are raising major national security questions over such an action , pointing out that the Palestinian territories are rife with members from designated terrorist organizations and it 's difficult to properly screen migrants from the region . <p> " Every time our government offers TPS to the citizens of a terrorist-run pseudo-state like Palestine it endangers the public safety and national security of the United States , " Matt O'Brien , investigations director for the Immigration Reform Law Institute , stated to the DCNF . " It is not possible to vet Palestinians . " <p> " And Palestine itself is administered by a complex web of shadowy terror groups , many of which serve as proxies for nations that are overtly hostile to the U.S. , such as Iran and Syria , " O'Brien continued . " Palestinian government officials are not folks who will share derogatory information on migrants with the U.S. , in fact they usually have a vested interest in hiding it , so they can smuggle in terrorists and spies . " <p> Questions over Palestinian refugees in the U.S. have been raised since the Hamas massacre of Israeli civilians on Oct. 7 , 2023 , which sparked the ongoing Israel-Hamas war . Internal federal government documents leaked to the media in April indicated that the Biden White House was even considering options on how to provide permanent safe haven to Palestinians living in war-torn Gaza . <p> GAZA , GAZA STRIP -- FEBRUARY 04 : Masked gunmen attend a press conference while Abu Thaer ( not pictured ) a Palestinian spokesman of the Al-Aqsa Brigades the military wing of the Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas movement Fatah , speaks to the media in Gaza City on February 4 , 2008 to claim joint responsibility with Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades , a military wing of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) , for the suicide bombing at a shopping centre in the Israeli desert town of Dimona . ( Photo by Abid Katib/Getty Images ) <p> Immediately after news of the possible Biden plan surfaced , Iowa GOP Sen. Joni Ernst led a delegation of 34 Republican senators in demanding the White House pump the brakes . In their letter to Biden , the GOP lawmakers noted the incredibly high number of Gazans currently supporting Hamas and how , because of the numerous logistical hurdles that come with importing migrants from a war-torn region halfway around the world , it would be nearly impossible to conduct proper vetting of all of them . <p> A poll released by the Palestinian Center for Policy and Research in March found that a staggering 71% of Palestinians supported Hamas ' Oct. 7 massacre on Israeli civilians . Additionally , just 5% of the Palestinians surveyed said they believed the Oct. 7 attack to be a war crime . <p> TPS has become an incredibly popular tool to allow foreign nationals from countries experiencing upheaval to remain in the U.S. As of Sept. 30 , there were roughly 1,095,115 individuals from 17 different countries enjoying TPS designation , according to a new report from the Congressional Research Service . <p> President-elect Donald Trump -- who won election in an electoral landslide after campaigning on a hardline immigration platform -- has pledged to bolster border security and lead a sweeping crackdown on illegal immigration in the interior of the country , and has already tapped a number of border hawks to lead this initiative . The president-elect has also suggested he 'd target TPS . <p> " Once these individuals get a legal foothold in the United States it 's near impossible to track and remove them , " Zinke said to the DCNF . " This is a long-used tactic by radical Islamic terror organizations and the Biden Administration knows it . " <p> " They also know that on Day One President Donald J. Trump is going to remind the world what America First looks like and that terrifies the globalist deep staters , " the Montana lawmaker continued . <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;1359;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours .
