<p> In late summer , Scott Jennings received a call from LA Times owner Patrick Soon-Shiong . Though Jennings had written dozens of columns for the newspaper over the years , the political commentator had never met Soon-Shiong , who mentioned having an appreciation for his approach , both as a commentator at CNN -- where he 's emerged as one of the network 's most prominent conservative voices -- and in print . " We struck up a little back-and-forth about what he was doing at the paper , " Jennings says , " which then ultimately led to him asking if I would be willing to join the editorial board . " <p> Having watched Jennings on CNN panels , Soon-Shiong tells me he was " impressed by his demeanor and by the way he would present his point of view , " which he says , " was always with respect . " Jennings 's commentary , in Soon-Shiong 's view , was " based on his analysis of factual information rather than speculative information . " Soon-Shiong recalls telling Jennings , " This is what we need more of in our newspaper . " <p> That private chat months back was a harbinger of the very public discussion playing out now around Soon-Shiong 's stewardship of the Times . A fairly low-key owner since acquiring the paper in 2018 , Soon-Shiong rattled the newsroom in late October by spiking an endorsement of Kamala Harris in the final weeks of the election ; reportedly demanded an editorial opposing an opinion piece critical of Donald Trump 's Cabinet picks , causing the editors to pull the story ; and has been outspoken about reshaping the editorial board . And he 's touted Jennings as the type of voice he 'd like more of at the paper , with the conservative commentator announcing on X in late November that he was accepting the owner 's invitation . <p> While the Times editorial-board role has lately gotten attention , it 's just the latest of Jennings 's media perches as a new Trump era gets underway . He already hosts a podcast , Flyover Country , in which Soon-Shiong recently appeared as a guest and mused about creating a " bias meter " for Times news and opinion coverage , while Jennings 's most high-profile gig remains as CNN 's go-to Trump defender , a role he played throughout the 2024 election cycle and into the transition . <p> " They 've given me a platform . No one ever tells me what to do or what not to do . I do n't have any scripts , and I 've never been censored , " Jennings , 47 , says of the network , where he 's been a contributor since 2017 . " There was a lot of political anxiety in the country about the election , but CNN never shied away from allowing that debate to unfold on the air , " he says , adding that programming like Abby Phillip 's NewsNight , which lends itself to pundit panels , have encouraged open and honest discussion . " Kudos to CNN for bringing a lot of different voices to the table this election , " Jennings praised . <p> Jennings 's pro-Trump commentary and at times contentious exchanges with CNN guests have led to his share of viral clips -- andcriticism . As Joe Biden hosted the president-elect at the White House , Jennings could be seen on CNN , gloating , " Did you ever think you 'd see literal Hitler in the Oval Office ? " referencing former Trump officials calling Trump a " fascist , " a narrative that took hold in the final stretch of the 2024 race . Jennings also drew criticism from analyst Karen Finney for his argument that Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter Biden should outrage Americans , " except the most partisan , brain-rotted people . " Finney called out Jennings for his rhetoric , saying , " That 's a little beyond the pale , even for you , Scott ! " <p> Just last week , Jennings snapped at Bakari Sellers for tapping his arm during a debate about Trump 's recent comments on his ability to lower grocery store prices . " Do n't touch me , " Jennings said . He also tussled with Audie Cornish during a discussion of the verdict in the Daniel Pennytrial , in which Jennings argued Penny was a victim . " He needs a clip for the internet , " Cornish said of Jennings . Mehdi Hasan , a former MSNBC host and now Zeteo editor in chief and CEO , wrote after the on-air spat that " Jennings may be one of the most unpleasant and disingenuous people on cable television -- and that 's saying a lot . " <p> Regardless of how tense things can get on air , Jennings tells me that he has " forged and formed a number of very close friendships " with his fellow commentators , specifically shouting out Van Jones and David Axelrod and saying that the cohort of CNN contributors has been " one of the greatest things about this job . " And Jones praised Jennings in an interview , saying he has " been our secret weapon in being a very strong conservative voice but one that our audience can understand and appreciate . " <p> " What 's in Scott is a deep respect for everyday people , a desire to not just agitate , but to educate the person he 's talking to about a different point of view , " Jones adds of his colleague . He also commended Jennings for continuing to show support for Israeli hostages being held by Hamas in Gaza by donning a yellow ribbon pin in every segment . <p> Axelrod , who Jennings says is his closest friend from his tenure at CNN thus far , praised the pundit for his ability to cut " issues in ways that are provocative and go viral , " adding that Jennings has " created these ' own the libs , ' kind of freewheeling moments , particularly on some of these panels . " <p> " I do n't always love what he does on TV , " says Axelrod , " but that 's not the whole of how I judge him . " <p> Before making the MAGA case on CNN , Jennings had taken a more traditional path through Republican politics , working for the likes of George W. Bush , Mitt Romney , and Mitch McConnell . During the 2016 race , Jennings referred to Trump in a column as " authoritarian " and called out his " vulgar " and " crude " behavior in another , examples that were pointed out in a Washington Postprofile of Jennings , which noted he " changed his tune after Trump took office . " <p> Jennings says Trump has altered the trajectory of the Republican Party by not adhering to " conservative orthodoxy " on the issues that have shaped the party 's platform . Sometimes on air , that manifests in a fierce defense of the president-elect . Jennings took it upon himself to back Trump 's controversial pick to lead the Department of Defense , former Fox News host Pete Hegseth . Jennings slammed the current Pentagon leadership , saying , " I 've had just about enough of the so-called insiders running the defense department . " <p> " Yeah , he 's on TV , but so are the rest of us , " he pointed out , pushing back against his colleagues ' assertion that Hegseth lacks government experience . <p> There was chatter about Jennings himself joining the Trump administration . He was rumored to be on a short list of candidates to serve as the White House press secretary , a job that ultimately went toKaroline Leavitt . Jennings tells me he was not " actively seeking " a role in the administration and was n't behind any campaign suggesting his candidacy . " I have no plans to join the Trump administration right now , " he added . <p> The press secretary gig would be one in which Jennings presumably could n't break with Trump -- something he says he 's willing to do on CNN . " There have been times when he has done things , said things , that I did n't agree with , and I 've not been shy about saying that on the air , " he says . Following Trump 's appearance earlier this year at the National Association of Black Journalists conference , where Trump questioned Vice President Kamala Harris 's race , Jennings did not mince words , saying that Trump did " crap the bed " during the interview : " The only question is whether he 's going to roll around in it or change the sheets . " Axelrod also believes Jennings is n't " blindly defending everything Trump does . " <p> " We have free speech in this country , and we have free debate , and we all have to collectively make decisions about how we 're going to govern ourselves , " says Jennings , stressing the need for debating issues in " an honest and open format . " <p> " I think CNN is doing that , " he says . " I think the LA Times could do that . " <p> " When Patrick told me what his vision was for the newspaper -- report the news and have a balanced editorial page -- I thought that 's exactly what media should be , " Jennings says , adding that he does n't understand " what 's so controversial about that . " <p> But Soon-Shiong 's shake-up at the Times has been " controversial , " as his Times itself described it this past weekend . Since the Harris endorsement imbroglio , the Times has seen a steady wave of opinion section departures , leaving only one of the original board members remaining ; meanwhile , the Times reported , an estimated 20,000 subscribers dropped the paper . Oliver Darcy , who has been reporting on upheaval inside the Times , framed Soon-Shiong 's actions atop Monday 's " Status " newsletter as " Meddling for MAGA . " <p> The Times owner touched on the opinion resignations in our interview , saying that " it was clear that there were very strong feelings about this idea of having a balanced viewpoint . " Soon-Shiong says that he felt that the editorial board was " veering very progressive , " and in his mind " it was really not healthy just to have what I call an echo chamber of a single view and almost canceling , so to speak , the views of both sides . " <p> Soon-Shiong says he is working through a list of around 20 to 25 candidates " across the spectrum from left , center , to right , " who he is contacting personally with a potential opportunity to join the restructured editorial board . While he declined to share any names on the list , Soon-Shiong says it will likely be announced early 2025 , once the board is full of new contributors . Jennings 's role , it should be noted , is not a staff position . <p> " I think what he wants to do is kind of visionary , truthfully , " Jennings tells me of Soon-Shiong 's plans . " The editorial board should not be an echo chamber . There should be views that represent all of America . " <h> Natalie Korach <h> Media Reporter <p> Natalie Korach is a contributing media reporter at Vanity Fair . She has covered the intersection of the media industry , business , and politics for the last four years . Most recently Natalie served as TheWrap 's media reporter . She also previously worked as a guest producer for i24News English in Tel Aviv , Israel .... Read more <p> Patrick Soon-Shiong 's decision to not endorse has led to a high-profile resignation , staff and subscriber frustration , and criticism from a California rival . " Silence is complicity , " responded Los Angeles Magazine . <p> Vanity Fair editors Claire Howorth and Michael Calderone reflect on the lessons learned from Democrats ' catastrophic loss and lay out ways the media can hold Republicans to account next year . " We need to be clear on the norms being broken , " says Calderone . <p> Journalists covering the hectic transition period speak of exhaustion and a sense of d ? j ? vu -- yet are resolved to tackle whatever comes their way . " If Trump kicks us out of the White House briefing room , " says the Times ' Peter Baker , " we 'll still cover from the outside . "
