<h> Conservative leaders assure Herzog : movement thrives amid challenges <p> Israel 's President Isaac Herzog attends an emergency conference on the medical condition of Israeli hostages in the Gaza Strip at the President Residence in Jerusalem , December 10 , 2024. ( photo credit : OREN BEN HAKOON/FLASH90 ) <p> Contrary to what is frequently published in American Jewish media , the Conservative movement in the US is thriving , a delegation of Conservative rabbis and lay leaders told President Isaac Herzog . <p> The delegation , which consisted of Americans and Israelis , was led by Rabbi Jacob Blumenthal , CEO of the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism and the Rabbinical Assembly , and had participated in the global convention of the Rabbinical Assembly in Jerusalem . The convention was attended by approximately 250 Conservative activists from around the world . <p> The delegation expressed concern about the fate of the hostages but , on a more positive note , assured the president that Conservative congregations in the US are thriving . <p> While conceding that some congregations are dwindling and synagogues are closing down , Blumenthal said that the Conservative movement provides democracy , pluralism , Jewish life , and tradition , which collectively attract a lot of unaffiliated Jews . <p> Herzog was curious about how the movement succeeds in maintaining its members and making sure that synagogues do not close . AIMING FOR the strengthening of Israeli unity , people gather with Israeli flags at one of some 100 locations around the country , in Hispin , Golan Heights , in August . ( credit : MICHAEL GILADI/FLASH90 ) <h> ' Religion is going downhill ' <p> Blumenthal acknowledged the difficulty , saying that " religion is going downhill almost everywhere , " and pointed out that it is more difficult for organized religion to exist in Israel because the government does not provide funding for non-Orthodox religious movements . " It 's a roadblock to Jewish life . " <p> Explaining the success of the Conservative movement , which in Israel is largely known as Masorti , Rakefet Ginsberg , the executive director and CEO of the Masorti Movement in Israel , said " there are people who go to extremes , but , at the same time , they want to be together . They want to be under the same roof as the people they disagree with . " <p> She insisted that " Conservative Judaism is growing , " adding that a lot of unaffiliated Jews come to the Conservative movement because of its values . These are people who want to grow as individuals . <p> " To grow , you ca n't be unaffiliated , " she said . " You have to be affiliated if you want to belong . We do n't have to be the center of their life , but we have to be part of their life . " <p> A man from Pittsburgh said he belongs to a thriving congregation but is the only one in his age group who attends services regularly . Other regulars are either much older or much younger than he is . <p> The president of a congregation in Maryland said there are 50 synagogues within a two-mile radius of her own synagogue . " There 's enormous growth , " she affirmed . <p> Conservatives are loyal Zionist affiliates , and they are aware that anything that happens in Israel impacts them . While proud of the achievements of the Start-Up Nation , said the woman from Maryland , they are disturbed when watching television to see the divisiveness and abuse among Israeli leaders at a time when Jewish solidarity is so essential . <p> Another woman who spent a year in Israel as a student found the Orthodox control of marriage , divorce , and conversion to be a deterrent , even though she loves Israel . <p> A woman from New York recalled the first time she had come to Israel with her parents in 1969 and had instantly felt part of the country . But when she went to the Western Wall , she was disappointed to see that gender segregation was enforced . <p> After the introduction of the egalitarian section of the Western Wall , she went there and found that it was empty . So she went to the main area and found that both the women 's and the men 's sections were full . " I felt unwanted . It was heartbreaking , " she said . <p> She may have gone on the wrong day . According to Ginsberg , services in the egalitarian section are held on Mondays and Thursdays , and there are often times when there are 40 services in a single day . <p> Herzog revealed something that even most Israelis do n't know . People with the most polarized ideologies come together to debate and negotiate , but such meetings are held in accordance with the Chatham House Rule -- meaning that none of the participants is identified or quoted outside the room in which discussions are held . <p> Whatever the general impression may be , Herzog was adamant that Israel continues to be a democracy . <p> There was consensus between him and members of the delegation that much of the negativity about Israel derives from fake news or what Herzog termed " false narratives. "
