<p> While recently performing in Australia , Thom Yorke -- the front man of Radiohead -- was interrupted by a protester who called on him to condemn Israel 's campaign of violence in Gaza . After a hostile exchange , Yorke resumed the show with one of the band 's iconic hits , " Karma Police . " The rock star was apparently feeling intimidated . <p> On the dystopian album OK Computer ( 1997 ) , Yorke had sung that the Karma Police were out to get us . A reimagining of Orwell 's Thought Police , they personified the totalitarian forces of the digital age that was bearing down upon us . A quarter century later , amid a more fully realized technocracy , the specter of the Karma Police feels more prescient than ever . But it 's not always clear who 's policing whom : the heckler or the rock star ? One had a captive audience and a microphone . The other was escorted from the show by security . <p> More than lead us to wonder whether Yorke is following in the footsteps of Morrissey , the episode reflects the currents of thought and the exercises of power that have roiled American campuses for the last two years . Universities ' recent warming to AI , along with their refusal to accommodate student encampments , have suggested how the neoliberal university will manage expressions of free thought in an increasingly technocratic landscape . Suspensions , sanctions , expulsions and deportations : " This is what you get when you mess with us , " the university 's Karma Police intone , in an echo of OK Computer . Our students ' thinking will be done by a computer , OK ? <h> Most Popular <p> The language of accommodation applies both metaphorically and literally to how we might think about the student encampments . The raids of 2024 manifest , on the one hand , that a genuine politics of liberation will remain , for now , homeless . Solidarity with Palestine will find shelter neither in the university nor elsewhere in the public sphere . As with the encampments of those who are literally homeless , the student encampments are denounced , among other things , as disruptive . In both cases , the denunciations probably say more about us than about the encamped : Above all , that we are unwilling to confront what they represent . So awful are the implications of what the encampments voice -- our complicity in a genocide of children -- that we do with the students as we do with the homeless . We contract police to beat them up and remove them from view . <p> It 's a different story when considering the disruptive arrival of AI , whose adoption has overlapped with the encampments . With the rollout of ChatGPT in November 2022 , there were reservations . Two years later , they persist . But much of American higher ed has moved on . Our new consensus ? " To work with AI , not around it . " With Pandora 's box open , why not learn to live with AI -- accommodate it , leverage it , incorporate it in our courses and possibly even profit from it ? The university where I teach awarded grants to faculty who would study how to adopt AI in our pedagogy . Newly formed committees provided primers on how to use AI . The center for teaching and learning regularly communicates resources to help navigate the use of AI in our classrooms . With the encouragement of our president , the university fast-tracked a new graduate program in artificial intelligence . We 're just barely a midsize university . One can imagine the inducements that exist elsewhere . <p> If universities have provided the carrots , faculty have supplied the sticks : denialism , gaslighting and shaming . AI will not substitute for thinking , we are reassured , because LLMs do not think -- they parrot . That 's small consolation when they produce language slick enough to be passed off as real thought . If we voice concern that this poses a threat , we are told that our pedagogy is outdated or insufficiently creative , or that we ought to stop policing our students . My most pressing dilemma -- how to assess in good conscience a piece of work that is patently fabricated -- is met by bad-faith injunctions to self-delusion : " My professor hot take is that trusting students makes life so much better than assuming they 're all lying or trying to cheat on everything . " Ignorance is a bliss for which I often yearn , but it is generally not an advisable principle of pedagogy . We settle for self-delusion because the Thom Yorkes of the world are waiting to brand us the Karma Police . Yet in a dizzying irony , many of us say and do almost nothing about the deployment of actual police on our campuses . They have been deployed against students whose conviction , as Mario Savio once said , has led them to put their bodies upon the gears of the machine . As the gears churn on , we 've been learning how to accommodate ideology machines that threaten to erode democracy and degrade the environment . <p> These issues converged for me around December 2023 , as I was wrapping up a term in which I had prepared undergraduates to spend the spring in Berlin . For a reflection assignment , I asked students ( a ) to draft some questions they would like to pose to the Germans whom they would meet and ( b ) to sketch the responses they might anticipate . The use of ChatGPT was prohibited . One student , Sam , asked a fictional German interviewee to give a statement on Germans ' views of the current conflict between Israelis and Palestinians . The language of the submission -- effortlessly flowing clauses with a hypercorrect but clinically dry lexicon -- was a dead giveaway that the imagined response had been copied and pasted from ChatGPT . More glaring than the language , though , was the content : no mention of Oct. 7 , nor of Israel 's brutal campaign in the months that followed . Bizarrely , the response ended on a note of cheerful optimism , referencing recent positive developments that inspired hope for broad peace in the region . The student was not some Panglossian optimist . This was a case of plug and play . <p> In a subsequent meeting , I encountered a hubris that suggested the rules of the game had changed . Sam presumed from the start that I suspected his use of ChatGPT and had prepared accordingly . The diction and syntax were not his own , he said pre-emptively , because he was trying to imagine how a German might sound when writing in English . The German 's response did not mention Oct. 7 or the subsequent violence , he explained , again pre-emptively , because he wanted to avoid discussing dark topics . By the way , he asked , did I even know how large language models worked ? He could explain them to me . The condescension felt warranted -- not because Sam 's arguments held water , but because we both knew the university was not equipped to cope with students who opted to subcontract their thinking . By the end of 2023 , students like Sam knew we were upon an inflection point in how universities maintained academic integrity . <p> Faculty who have begun to adopt AI in their teaching will disagree with the premise of my assessment . They will insist that their use of AI remains thoughtful , critical , cautious -- and , above all , necessary . The arrow has left the bow , after all , and no matter what we say , students will use AI . We might at least ( try to ) dictate the terms on which they do so . And anyway , employers are already requiring that employees use AI in their work . It is their future -- and ours , too , judging by much of the discourse . At root , the fatalism that grounds these arguments derives from the same force that motivates universities to silence their students : the Market . <p> Students protesting U.S. and Israeli policy in Gaza , after all , are not primarily protesting the violence , abhorrent though they find it . They are protesting their universities ' complicity in a market that funds it . Student activists at my institution have concentrated their efforts on uncovering the university 's entanglements with the arms industry . Their actions have been tame , yet the university has been swift to respond . Last year , students reported to me that our university 's anonymous bias reporting system had been used to target them for engaging in political speech on social media ( the anonymous reporting option has since been abandoned ) . In the spring , campus police were called to stop students from chalking campus sidewalks with messages of Palestinian solidarity . Their act was forbidden , they learned , because they were not part of a recognized student organization . <p> But how could an organization that calls to end institutional ties with the military industrial complex gain approval , when the student code of conduct dictates that students must " at all times behave in ways that reflect positively on the institution " ? Their views were de facto prohibited . Regulations around civil and respectful speech are convenient for pettifogging students into submission ( discussion of genocide could be triggering ) . Unsurprisingly , then , within four days of holding a lunch-hour demonstration in October 2024 , students were asked to meet with two deans for having disrupted university operations . The code of conduct at my university also calls for academic integrity and truthfulness , but it is n't clear there is the same appetite to encourage integrity of thought as there is to restrict it . In October , I participated in a campus hearing board to adjudicate a case in which a student had fabricated an essay on Holocaust remembrance . It took 11 months to get a hearing . <h> Editors ' Picks <p> The institutionalization of these damages is well underway . There may be pockets of the curriculum where the adoption of AI makes sense , but it has begun to erode liberal education in ways that are far more thoroughgoing than many faculty yet know . Rather than think seriously about how and where to resist its incursion , however , universities have zeroed in on civic engagement as a more pressing threat , marshaling deans , lawyers , police and marketing teams toward eliminating or bogging it down in a morass of policy . Even on those campuses that have n't witnessed spectacles of violence , administrations have almost certainly updated their codes of conduct , events policies , advertising policies , external speaker policies and marketing materials . The arrival of the Trump administration will lead meek administrators to intensify these authoritarian measures . <p> We know that this is how the neoliberal university operates . We do not need to accept it . Our frequent avowals to teach critical thinking must be accompanied by a willingness to incur the discomfort that criticism entails . In times of emergency , Jonathan Crary writes in Scorched Earth , it becomes necessary " to insist that forms of radical refusal , rather than adaptation and resignation , are not only possible but necessary . " The time for radical critique and refusal is now . We would do well to learn from the courage of our students . <p> Daniel DiMassa is an associate professor of German in the Department of Humanities and Arts at Worcester Polytechnic Institute . He serves as vice president of the university 's American Association of University Professors chapter .
