<p> The end of 2024 brings with it the ritual of reflection , when we catalogue the year 's triumphs , struggles , and standout moments . Included in this tradition are best-of lists , and books are no exception to this rule . <p> Great books , and the stories they tell , make lasting impressions on their readers . They have the power to make us feel seen , to sweep us up into extraordinary worlds , and leave us with a different perspective than when we started . <p> " This book changed my life , " reader Dianna from Cambridge said of one of the book picks below . <p> Everyone 's idea of " great " or " the best " is subjective , and these differences are reflected in the diverse list of books Boston.com readers loved this year . Genres range from sports memoirs to historical fiction to post-apocalyptic fantasy novels and more . <p> Advertisement : <p> Take a look at some of the books Boston.com readers loved the most in 2024 below . Hover over each book cover to see its genre and themes , and click on the book cover to see what readers said about their favorite pick . <p> Scroll through the full list below to see all of the books Boston.com readers loved the most in 2024 . <p> This novel weaves back and forth between the perspectives and timelines of two Latina women breaking into the art world . Anita de Monte was a rising star artist in the 1980s , but after her sudden tragic death in 1985 , her work begins to fade away into obscurity . Raquel Toro is an art history student in the late 1990s studying at Brown University , who ultimately discovers de Monte 's story and sees how it parallels her own life . This book was a nominee for a 2024 Goodreads Choice Award for Readers ' Favorite Historical Fiction and was part of TIME Magazine 's Must-Read Books of 2024 . <p> This memoir from sports and cultural icon Bill Walton recounts his injuries and recoveries , set in the context of his UCLA triumphs under John Wooden , his storied NBA career , and his affinity for music and the Grateful Dead . <p> This biography tells the story of Elzada Clover and Lois Jotter , two pioneering botanists and their historic boat trip down the Colorado River and through the Grand Canyon . The book won the National Outdoor Book Award for History/Biography . <p> " Beautifully written book about a not very well-known trip of two female botanists and their rafting of the Grand Canyon . A tale of the dedication to their scientific exploration and abilithy to do what no one thought women were capable of . " -- Alan P. , Deerfield , New Hampshire <p> In this memoir , actress and it-girl Julia Fox chronicles her life and breakout role in the film " Uncut Gems , " her trendsetting style , and her dreams . <p> " Every single page of this book was shocking ! I loved learning about Julia Fox 's chaotic past and the struggles she has overcome . The best part was hearing countless stories of imperfect women being there for each other . Julia is a true girl 's girl ! " -- Claire , Brookline <p> " Emily Henry not only has Aaron Sorkin level banter in her books but also manages to grasp somewhere deep inside your soul and hug an insecurity you did n't even know you had , to tell you it 's going to be alright . From eldest child syndrome in ' Book Lovers ' to dealing with losing your other half in a breakup in ' Funny Story , ' I want all my problems to be solved by Emily Henry and the men and best friends she creates . This book is not going to change the world and there 's no trauma porn but it 's exactly what is needed now . An escape and to be told that everything is going to be alright in the end , that it may seem dark now , but there 's a happy ending at the end of the book . " -- M.O. , Quincy <p> Truman Capote 's " In Cold Blood " tells the story of the lives of the Clutter family of Holcomb , Kansas , and of the two men , Richard Eugene Hickock and Perry Edward Smith , who brutally killed them on the night of November 15 , 1959 . <p> The novel is a re-imagining of " Adventures of Huckleberry Finn " by Mark Twain but told from the perspective of Huckleberry 's friend on his travels , Jim , who is an escaped slave . " James " won the 2024 National Book Award in the fiction category . <p> " ' James ' by Percival Everett ( who just won the National Book Award ) is by far the very best book that I read this year . It 's an unforgettable retelling of Huck Finn from the point of view of Jim ( or James as he prefers ) . It 's hilarious and poignant and just brilliant . This story gets under your skin and you keep thinking about it and James long after you read the last words . I love love Percival Everett and this is my favorite book by him . " -- Jules , Hopkinton <p> The novel is the first of the " Lonesome Dove " series , set in the days of the Old West , and centers on the relationships between several retired Texas Rangers and their adventures driving a cattle herd from Texas to Montana . <p> " I did n't expect to love this book as much as I did . Hilarious , sad , heart-wrenching and with the best cast of characters of any book I 've ever read . Even after reading 858 pages , the ending left me wanting more , so naturally I had to read the sequel , ' The Streets of Laredo . ' It 's definitely among my favorite all-time books . " -- Joline G. , Lewiston , Maine <p> A novel about a single house in the woods of New England , told through the lives of those who inhabit it across the centuries . <p> I have always appreciated authors who can write well , remaining elegant and coherent throughout their storytelling , while exploring different genres . David Mitchell 's ' Cloud Atlas ' certainly comes to mind here . <p> In ' North Woods ' Mason has designed an intimate chronicle that takes place over generations elegantly shifting between historical , supernatural , and fantastical fictions . It 's an adept and intimate jaunt through history , manifested through the eyes of a remote cabin in the ' north woods ' of its title , revealing how each of its characters had lived in it , shaped it and left their own traces of humanity behind for each upcoming inheritor to discover . <p> ' North Woods ' deserves all of the praise it 's been receiving from critics and its readers alike . -- Dennis F. , Portland , Maine <p> Four lives are drawn together on the island of Makatea in French Polynesia , which is targeted for a project to build floating cities on the ocean . The novel explores themes of technology , colonialism , and the human impact on the environment . <p> " Richard powers tells layered stories and the characters intersect and diverge . There 's plenty of science information , information about our planet and our history . It 's all written so simply and appealing that you do n't feel guilty for reading a novel because you 've learned so much ! " -- Celeste H. , Boston <p> " Seven Pillars of Wisdom " is the autobiographical account of the experiences of British Army Colonel T. E. Lawrence while serving as a military advisor to Bedouin forces during the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire of 1916 to 1918 . <p> " Filled with interesting history and storytelling . It was hard to put down . " -- Fred R. , Boston <p> This historical fiction novel is about a coal merchant in 1985 Ireland who discovers that a local convent is actually a Magdalene laundry . The book was adapted into a film of the same name starring Cillian Murphy . <p> This memoir explores belonging in a contested homeland , from a Palestinian writer . <p> " Author Fida Jiryis tells the history of Palestinian struggle in Palestine and Israel with accurate representation of both today 's life and the political and social realities and consequences to come . History is included and informs the personal tale . Personal , familial and political history are poignantly described . The personal and political costs of occupation are worth deep consideration , especially in light of the war in Gaza . " -- Ellis O. , Mendon <p> This novel tells the story of three teenagers who return from the dead , seemingly resurrected by their former music teacher , and must compete for the prize of remaining alive . <p> " This book changed my life . In a time when I was feeling deep and terrible despair , Link pulled me into the rich , complex inner lives of her characters and showed me how it is possible to survive and even grow in the most impossible situations . This intricately written novel has elements of horror , which I usually do n't like , but it handles those moment with such tenderness and skill that I hardly noticed . By far one of the best novels I have ever read . " -- Dianna , Cambridge <p> This historical fiction novel is set in Kerala , India , and follows three generations of a family that suffers from at least one person dying by drowning in each generation . <p> " A matriarchal journey down through generations of a 20th century family in southwest India . Amazingly rich and textured story of hardships , joy and just being human . Reminds me of ' A Fine Balance ' by Rohinton Mistry . But , not as depressing . Great book . " -- John M. , Boston <p> In this fictionalized account of a true story , a wealthy businessman named Carl Fletcher is kidnapped from his driveway , brutalized , and held for ransom in 1980 . <p> " A hilarious family epic in the Franzen mold . In an era of identity-driven narratives that choke on their self-seriousness , this one stands out for cementing itself in a particular identity group ( the suburban Jewish-American nouveau-riche ) , and doing so with enough humor and pathos that the reader does n't gag on the results . " -- Beamer <p> Kristin Hannah 's novel tells the tales of two sisters separated in France during World War II . One sister is left to make impossible decisions for her and her daughter 's survival after her husband joins the frontlines , while the younger sister , isolated and betrayed by those around her , ultimately joins the resistance against the Nazis . This book won a Goodreads Choice Award for Readers ' Favorite Historical Fiction in 2015 and an Audie Award for Fiction in 2016 . <p> Set during the COVID-19 pandemic in Dublin , this novel follows Paula Spencer in her mid-60s when she 's just about to move forward from the troubles of her past , until her daughter comes home to her after deciding to leave her husband and three children . Published this past September , this is Doyle 's third installment in the Paula Spencer series , but it can be read as a standalone book . <p> This historical fiction novel set in the Vietnam War follows twenty-year-old nursing student Frances " Frankie " McGrath as joins the Army Nurse Corps in 1965 . <p> " It was so moving and although it was historical fiction , she got the facts right as she always does . I could not put it down and am having a hard time picking up my next one -- nothing compares to it . " -- Marcia , Woburn
