<h> Biden admin , universities failed to crack down on antisemitism in ' disturbing pattern ' after Oct. 7 , scathing House GOP report finds <p> The Biden administration , top universities and medical institutions utterly failed to crack down on antisemitism that exploded in the wake of Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , terror attack , according to a scathing House Republican report released Thursday , which laid bare " systemic " and " astounding " shortcomings . <p> Six GOP-led House committees declared in a joint report that " antisemitism has been allowed to fester unchecked " due to " a disturbing pattern of defensiveness and denial , " according to a copy exclusively obtained by The Post . <p> The Biden administration -- along with universities and medical institutions -- failed to crack down on antisemitism that exploded in the wake of Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack , according to a scathing House Republican report . AP <p> " The failure of our federal government departments and agencies is astounding . " <p> The outpouring of anti-Israel and anti-Jewish remarks and actions tested America 's free speech precepts and the fact that hate speech is generally lawful in the United States , unless it amounts to harassment or is an aggravating factor in a criminal act such as assault . <p> The Republican-led report points out , however , that federal law generally prevents recipients of taxpayer funds from tolerating discrimination -- allowing a foothold to leverage recipients to stiffen policies on campuses and at medical settings should federal officials so choose . <p> In almost every case , institutions allegedly took almost no disciplinary action against alleged antisemites and made no changes to codes of conduct , and faced no loss of grants to stop the rapidly spreading Jew hatred . <p> " The executive branch should aggressively enforce Title VI anti-discrimination rules and hold schools accountable for their failures to protect students . Universities that fail to fulfill the obligations upon which their federal funding is predicated or whose actions make clear they are unfit stewards of taxpayerdollars should be treated accordingly , " the Republican panels said . <p> Six GOP-led House committees declared in a joint report that " antisemitism has been allowed to fester unchecked " due to " a disturbing pattern of defensiveness and denial , " according to a copy exclusively obtained by The Post . New York Post <p> The report focuses heavily on Columbia University and its recommendations urge federal agencies to use money to incentivize more stringent anti-discrimination policies -- and also proposes potential legislation to that effect . Getty Images <p> High-profile reports of antisemitism -- mirrored by anti-Palestinian incidents that also occurred , especially during rallies and counter-rallies over the Israeli invasion of the Gaza Strip -- was just the tip of the iceberg , according to the investigation . <p> In one alarming incident , a student overheard two health care providers at Columbia 's medical school discussing whether or not to " treat her because she was Israeli . " <p> " She sat in the room for another 10 minutes until someone finally came to address her health needs As of mid-December 2024 , representatives of Columbia University have not provided any information to the Committees as a part of this investigation beyond an October 2 , 2024 , response of basic platitudes . " <p> The probe , which was launched after House Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) and other Republicans took a tour of the anti-Israel encampment at Columbia , touched on many federal agencies . James Keivom <p> The Ivy League school , which was the site of a large encampment that featured on its fringes multiple documented instances of anti-Jewish remarks against pro-Israel activists and Jewish students , also reneged on a vow to punish students accused of breaking the rules to protest against Israel . <p> " Columbia said the 22 students arrested for the criminal takeover of Hamilton Hall would face expulsion . Instead , the University lifted the students ' interim suspensions after pushback from radical faculty , allowing 7 to graduate , restoring 11 to good standing , and leaving 3 with preexisting sanctions suspended and 1 on probation , " the report said . <p> " Despite dozens of students being arrested for conduct related to Hamilton Hall and the encampment , or having faced discipline for other egregious antisemitic incidents ; Columbia failed to expel students and issued final suspensions to only four students . " <p> Columbia was the site of a large encampment that featured on its fringes multiple documented instances of anti-Jewish remarks against pro-Israel activists and Jewish students . James Keivom <p> Some of the anti-Israel protesters at Columbia were themselves Jewish and argued that the protest was not pervasively antisemitic -- despite reported instances . <p> The document says that , unexpectedly , " many colleges handed down disparate disciplinary actions for Jewish students versus their antagonists -- the students who engaged in antisemitic behavior , encampments , and intimidating tactics such as campus checkpoints and tax-exempt organizations that enabled and funded violent campus protests . " <h> See Also <p> Columbia , for example , " allowed a false narrative that Jewish students had perpetrated a ' chemical attack ' at an anti-Israel rally to persist for months despite knowing it was false and that the students involved had merely sprayed novelty ' fart sprays . ' <p> " In an apparent case of disparate treatment , the Jewish students responsible were given excessive year-and-a-half long suspensions , substantially longer than any suspension for antisemitic conduct violations , " the report says . <p> " Columbia failed to correct the record despite requests from the Jewish community , even as anti-Israel students used the false narrative of a ' chemical attack ' purportedly involving military-grade ' skunk spray ' to demonize Jewish students and call for excluding Israelis . <p> " Columbia finally acknowledged that the incident was not a ' chemical attack ' in August 2024 , pursuant to a settlement with one of the Jewish students excessively disciplined , which also awarded the student $395,000 and modified the suspension to conditional disciplinary probation . " <p> Allegedly biased institutions such as Columbia University , the University of Southern California , UCLA , George Washington University , Harvard University , and Yale University pocketed $2.7 billion in federal funds just in fiscal year 2023 , which concluded right before Hamas terrorists invaded the Jewish state and killed more than 1,200 people -- including 33 Americans , the report says . <p> The probe , which was launched after House Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) and other Republicans took a tour of the anti-Israel encampment at Columbia , touched on many federal agencies . <p> The State Department and Department of Homeland Security allegedly stonewalled records requests about the visa statuses of those harassing Jewish students with terror-infused tirades -- or else discovered that government money was being funneled to tax-exempt charities <p> " Columbia said the 22 students arrested for the criminal takeover of Hamilton Hall would face expulsion . Instead , the University lifted the students ' interim suspensions after pushback from radical faculty , " the report said . James Keivom <p> " Rather than confronting the severity of the problem , many institutions have dismissed congressional and public criticism and abdicated responsibility for the hostile environments they have enabled , " the report states . <p> " This refusal to acknowledge or address the issue has allowed antisemitism to take root and thrive in spaces that contravene the values of this great nation . " <h> Video <h> Now on Decider <p> The Biden administration -- along with universities and medical institutions -- failed to crack down on antisemitism that exploded in the wake of Hamas ' Oct. 7 attack , according to a scathing House Republican report . AP <p> Six GOP-led House committees declared in a joint report that " antisemitism has been allowed to fester unchecked " due to " a disturbing pattern of defensiveness and denial , " according to a copy exclusively obtained by The Post . New York Post <p> The report focuses heavily on Columbia University and its recommendations urge federal agencies to use money to incentivize more stringent anti-discrimination policies -- and also proposes potential legislation to that effect . Getty Images <p> The probe , which was launched after House Speaker Mike Johnson ( R-La. ) and other Republicans took a tour of the anti-Israel encampment at Columbia , touched on many federal agencies . James Keivom <p> Columbia was the site of a large encampment that featured on its fringes multiple documented instances of anti-Jewish remarks against pro-Israel activists and Jewish students . James Keivom <p> " Columbia said the 22 students arrested for the criminal takeover of Hamilton Hall would face expulsion . Instead , the University lifted the students ' interim suspensions after pushback from radical faculty , " the report said . James Keivom
