<p> President Joe Biden 's staff played a pivotal role in shielding him from the public eye by constructing walls around the aging Democratic leader , blocking out even key lawmakers and senior members of his own administration . <p> A stack of interviews from anew Wall Street Journalreport included concerns from Sen. Joe Manchin ( I-WV ) , a maverick former Democrat who spent long hours negotiating with the White House during Biden 's first few years in office . <p> Noting he had questions at the time about whether Biden had the stamina required to run the country , Manchin suggested presidential staffers had become avid gatekeepers , calling them a group of " eager beavers . " <p> " They were going , ' I 'll take care of that , ' " Manchin said of a group of staffers who included then-White House chief of staff Ron Klain . <p> The gatekeeping reportedly has gone so far as to limit top Cabinet officials ' access to Biden , even as the United States grapples with wars in Ukraine and Gaza . <p> Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin has seen his access to one-on-one , in-person briefings with Biden significantly decline in the past two years , per the report . <p> Even during the chaotic 2021 U.S. military withdrawal from Afghanistan , Biden 's staffers reportedly pushed top lawmakers , including the top Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee , away from the commander in chief . <p> Rep. Adam Smith ( D-WA ) said that while he tried to hold a direct conversation with Biden regarding his concerns about the plans , he was never able to get on the phone with him before the disastrous withdrawal left 13 U.S. troops dead . Smith reportedly wanted the president and his team to measure their expectations , knowing himself how complicated a mission like this would be . <p> Smith had just one call with Biden during his time in the White House shortly after the Afghanistan affair , according to the congressman . <p> " The Biden White House was more insulated than most , " Smith told the outlet . " I spoke with Barack Obama on a number of occasions when he was president and I was n't even chairman " of the Armed Services committee . <p> Rep. Adam Smith ( D-WA ) speaks during a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the conclusion of military operations in Afghanistan on Wednesday , Sept. 29 , 2021 , on Capitol Hill in Washington . ( Olivier Douliery/Pool via AP ) <p> The same " insulation " problem was perpetuated when it came to giving presidential pollsters access to Biden the candidate , per the report . All polling information was funneled through adviser Mike Donilon rather than given directly to Biden , as was the case in 2020 . The lack of contact with the president fueled concerns that he was disconnected from voters , according to the outlet . <p> The " insulated " White House environment staffers reportedly worked to build comes as Biden , 82 , has faced increasing scrutiny over his mental acuity , with doctors particularly questioning the president 's cognitive state following his presidential debate in June . Biden 's campaign exit the following month was largely driven by concerns about his mental state and capacity to lead the country for another four years . <p> Manchin said even during his frequent contact with the White House during the first half of the Biden administration , he felt like " maybe the president just lost that fight . " <p> While concerns that Biden 's staffers are trying to conceal his decline from top officials are on the rise , records show the number of meetings Biden has held with his Cabinet has sharply declined compared to previous administrations . <p> Biden has held nine full Cabinet meetings over the past four years . In contrast , former President Barack Obama held 19 , and President-elect Donald Trump held 25 full Cabinet meetings during their first terms in office , according to former CBS News correspondent Mark Knoller.
