<p> AI warfare may conjure images of killer robots and autonomous drones , but a different reality is unfolding in the Gaza Strip . There , artificial intelligence has been suggesting targets in Israel 's retaliatory campaign to root out Hamas following the group 's Oct. 7 , 2023 attack . A program known as " The Gospel " generates suggestions for buildings and structures militants may be operating in . " Lavender " is programmed to identify suspected members of Hamas and other armed groups for assassination , from commanders all the way down to foot soldiers . " Where 's Daddy ? " reportedly follows their movements by tracking their phones in order to target them -- often to their homes , where their presence is regarded as confirmation of their identity . The air strike that follows might kill everyone in the target 's family , if not everyone in the apartment building . <p> These programs , which the Israel Defense Force ( IDF ) has acknowledged developing , may help explain the pace of the most devastating bombardment campaign of the 21st century , in which more than 44,000 Palestinians have been killed , according to the Hamas-run Gaza Health Ministry , whose count is regarded as reliable by the U.S. and U.N . In earlier Gaza wars , Israeli military veterans say airstrikes occurred at a much slower tempo . <p> " During the period in which I served in the target room between 2010 and 2015 , you needed a team of around 20 intelligence officers to work for around 250 days to gather something between 200 to 250 targets , " Tal Mimran , a lecturer at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a former legal adviser in the IDF , tells TIME . " Today , the AI will do that in a week . " <p> Experts on the laws of war , already alarmed by the emergence of AI in military settings , say they are concerned that its use in Gaza , as well as in Ukraine , may be establishing dangerous new norms that could become permanent if not challenged . <p> A body of a Palestinian is retrieved from the rubble of a house destroyed in an Israeli strike at the Nuseirat refugee camp in the central Gaza Strip on Nov. 12 , 2024 . Majdi Fathi -- NurPhoto/Reuters <p> The treaties that govern armed conflict are non-specific when it comes to the tools used to deliver military effect . The elements of international law covering war -- on proportionality , precautions , and distinctions between civilians and combatant -- apply whether the weapon being used is a crossbow or a tank -- or an AI-powered database . But some advocates , including the International Committee of the Red Cross , argue that AI requires a new legal instrument , noting the crucial need to ensure human control and accountability as AI weapons systems become more advanced . <p> " The pace of technology is far outstripping the pace of policy development , " says Paul Scharre , the executive vice president at the Center for a New American Security and the author of Army of None : Autonomous Weapons and the Future of War . " It 's quite likely that the types of AI systems that we 've seen to date are pretty modest , actually , compared to ones that are likely to come in the near future . " <p> The AI systems the IDF uses in Gaza were first detailed a year ago on the Israeli online news outlet +972 Magazine , which shared its reporting with The Guardian . Yuval Abraham , the Israeli journalist and filmmaker behind the investigation , tells TIME he believes the decision to " bomb private houses in a systemic way " is " the number one factor for the civilian casualties in Gaza . " That decision was made by humans , he emphasizes , but he says AI targeting programs enabled the IDF " to take this extremely deadly practice and then multiply it by a very large scale . " Abraham , whose report relies on conversations with six Israeli intelligence officers with first-hand experience in Gaza operations after Oct. 7 , quoted targeting officers as saying they found themselves deferring to the Lavender program , despite knowing that it produces incorrect targeting suggestions in roughly 10% of cases . <p> One intelligence officer tasked with authorizing a strike recalled dedicating roughly 20 seconds to personally confirming a target , which could amount to verifying that the individual in question was male . <p> Graves are prepared for the funeral of Palestinians killed in overnight Israeli strikes at a cemetery in Rafah , on the southern Gaza Strip on Feb. 21 , 2024 . Said Khatib -- AFP/Getty Images <p> The Israeli military , in responding to the +972 report , said that its use of AI is misunderstood , saying in a June statement that Gospel and Lavender merely " help intelligence analysts review and analyze existing information . They do not constitute the sole basis for determining targets eligible to attack , and they do not autonomously select targets for attack . " At a conference in Jerusalem in May , one senior military official sought to minimize the importance of the tools , which he likened to " glorified Excel sheets , " Mimran and another person in attendance told TIME . <p> The IDF did not specifically dispute Abraham 's reporting about Lavender 's 10% error rate , or that an analyst might spend as little as 20 seconds analyzing the targets , but in a statement to TIME , a spokesperson said that analysts " verify that the identified targets meet the relevant definitions in accordance with international law and additional restrictions stipulated in the IDF directives . " <p> Converting data into target lists is not incompatible with the laws of war . Indeed , a scholar at West Point , assessing the Israeli programs , observed that more information could make for greater accuracy . By some contemporary accounts , that may have beenthe case the last time Israel went to war in Gaza , in 2021 . That brief conflict apparently marked the first time the IDF used artificial intelligence in a war , and afterward , the then-head of UNRWA , the U.N . agency that provides health , education , and advocacy for Palestinians , remarked on " a huge sophistication in the way the Israeli military struck over the last 11 days . " But the 2021 round of combat , which produced 232 Palestinian deaths , was a different kind of war . It was fought under Israeli rules of engagement ostensibly intended to minimize civilian casualties , including by " knocking on the door " -- dropping a small charge on the rooftop of a building to warn occupants that it was about to be destroyed , and should evacuate . <p> In the current war , launched more than 14 months ago to retaliate for the worst attack on Jews since the Holocaust , Israeli leaders shut off water and power to all of Gaza , launched 6,000 airstrikes in the space of just five days , and suspended some measures intended to limit civilian casualties . " This time we are not going to " knock on the roof " and ask them to evacuate the homes , " former Israeli military intelligence chief Amos Yadlin told TIME five days after Oct. 7 , warning that that the weeks ahead would be " very bloody " in Gaza . " We are going to attack every Hamas operative and especially the leaders and make sure that they will think twice before they will even think about attacking Israel . " Abraham reported that targeting officers were told it was acceptable to kill 15 to 20 noncombatants in order to kill a Hamas soldier ( the number in previous conflicts , he reports , was zero ) , and as many as 100 civilians to kill a commander . The IDF did not comment on those figures . <p> Israeli army battle tank at a position along the border with Gaza , on March 19 , 2024 . Jack Guez -- AFP/Getty Images <p> Experts warn that , with AI generating targets , the death toll may climb even higher . They cite " automation bias " -- the presumption that information provided by AI is accurate and reliable unless proven otherwise , rather than the other way around . Abraham says his sources reported times they made just that assumption . " Yes there is a human in the loop , " says Abraham , " but if it 's coming at a late stage after decisions have been made by AI and if it is serving as a formal rubber stamp , then it 's not effective supervision . " <p> Former IDF chief Aviv Kochavi offered a similar observation in an interview with the Israeli news site Ynet six months before Oct. 7 . " The concern , " he said , speaking of AI broadly , " is not that robots will take control over us , but that artificial intelligence will supplant us , without us even realizing that it is controlling our minds . " <p> Adil Haque , the executive editor of the national security law blog Just Security and the author of Law and Morality at War , described the tension at play . " The psychological dynamic here pushes against the legal standard , " he says . " Legally , the presumption is that you ca n't attack any person unless you have very strong evidence that they 're a lawful target . But psychologically , the effect of some of these systems can be to make you think that this individual is a lawful target , unless there 's some very obvious indication that you make independently that they are not . " <p> Israel is far from the only country using artificial intelligence in its military . Scores of defense tech companies operate in Ukraine , where the software developed by the Silicon Valley firm Palantir Technologies " is responsible for most of the targeting " against Russia , its CEO told TIME in 2023 , describing programs that present commanders with targeting options compiled from satellites , drones , open-source data , and battlefield reports . As with Israel , experts note that Ukraine 's use of AI is in a " predominantly supportive and informational role , " and that the kinds of technology being trialed , from AI-powered artillery systems to AI-guided drones , are not yet fully autonomous . But concerns abound about potential misuse , particularly on issues related to accuracy and privacy . <p> Anna Mysyshyn , an AI policy expert and director of the Institute of Innovative Governance , an NGO and watchdog of the Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine , tells TIME that while " dual-use technologies " such as the facial-recognition system Clearview AI play an important role in Ukraine 's defense , concerns remain about their use beyond the war . " We 're talking about ... how to balance between using technologies that have advantages on the battlefield with protecting human rights , " she says , noting that " regulation of these technologies is complicated by the need to balance military necessity with civilian protection . " <p> With fighting largely confined to battlefields , where both Russian and Ukrainian forces are dug in , the issues that animate the debate in Gaza have not been in the foreground . But any country with an advanced military -- including the U.S. -- is likely to soon confront the issues that come with machine learning . <p> " Congress needs to be prepared to put guardrails on AI technologies -- especially those that put international humanitarian law in question and threaten civilians , " Sen. Peter Welch of Vermont said in a statement to TIME . In September , he and Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois wrote a letter to Secretary of State Antony Blinken urging the State Department to " proactively and publicly engage in setting international norms about the ethical deployment of AI technology . " Welch has also since put forward his proposed Artificial Intelligence Weapons Accountability and Risk Evaluation ( AWARE ) Act , which if passed would require the Defense Department to catalog domestic deployments of AI systems , the risks associated with them , and any foreign sharing or exportation of these technologies . <p> " A more comprehensive and public approach is necessary to address the risk of AI weapons and maintain America 's leadership in ethical technology development , " Welch says , " as well as establish international norms in this critical space . " <p> It may seem unlikely that any government would find an incentive to introduce restrictions that also curtail its own military 's advancements in the process . " We 've done it before , " counters Alexi Drew , a Technology Policy Adviser at the ICRC , pointing to treaties on disarmament , cluster munitions , and landmines . " Of course , it 's a very complex challenge to achieve , but it 's not impossible . "
