<h> Bradley said there were multiple instances of graffiti on campus , with some of the content deemed by community members as antisemitic . <p> Vassar College saw extensive vandalism across its campus almost two weeks after its trustees declined to adopt Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions policies , according to statements by Vassar College President Elizabeth Bradley and Vassar College Students for Justice in Palestine . <p> Bradley said there were multiple instances of graffiti on campus , with some of the content deemed by community members as antisemitic . <p> SJP claimed that a group of " autonomous actors " was responsible in an Instagram post , sharing photographs with red graffiti on campus buildings proclaiming " free Palestine " and " blood on your hands . " <p> The extent of the graffiti and damage to college property meant that the local police department would be involved in the investigation , according to Bradley . <p> " This mode of communication is not effective in fostering the community of dialogue and respect to which we aspire . Instead , it can make people feel intimidated , unsafe , and excluded , " said Bradley . Graffiti in a Goldsmiths University University of London bathroom . ( credit : Beata Konya ) <p> SJP attacked Bradley 's response for focusing on " the feelings of Zionist students " and ignoring the graffiti 's " call for divestment from the military-industrial complex . <p> " No amount of damage to Vassar buildings will ever compare to the devastation in Gaza . Over two-thirds of all buildings in Gaza have been destroyed by Israeli bombardment , and no universities remain , " said SJP Vassar . " We stand in solidarity with the autonomous actors who disrupted normalcy at Vassar today . " <h> BDS <p> The anti-Israel student group noted that the vandalism came a week after the Trustee Investment Responsibility Committee rejected divestment from weapons and surveillance manufacturers , which had been supported by members of the student body . <p> Fake wanted posters posted on the college walls attacked trustees and administrators for " investment in genocide , " according to SJP . <p> The TIRC issued a memorandum on December 2 thanking students for their input following a September Campus Investor Responsibility Committee to forward a proposal made by students in a May meeting for the institution to " divest its endowment from companies that design , manufacture , sell , and/or finance military and/or surveillance technologies . " <p> " The Board of Trustees , including members from TIRC , has taken time to discuss the proposal fully and weigh the various considerations and has come to the decision that Vassar will not divest from military investments . The board did , however , decide to enhance transparency about the policies and practices that govern our stewardship of the endowment , " said the TIRC . <p> " Almost 30% of the college 's operating budget each year comes from the endowment . Making an investment decision that does not have a basis in the college 's long-term investment strategy could have a negative impact on the ability of the college to support its educational mission over time . " <p> The TIRC noted that it does not select or directly control which companies the Vassar endowment is invested in but is managed through third-party managers and funds . It also added that the endowment had little engagement with defense and surveillance firms .
