<p> WASHINGTON -- President Joe Biden will meet with Pope Francis in January , likely the president 's final international trip just days before he leaves the Oval Office , the White House announced on Thursday . <p> Biden accepted Francis ' invitation to visit the Vatican during a Thursday phone call with the pope , the White House said in a statement . The two men have met several times . <p> White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said in a statement that Biden 's visit to Rome will take place from Jan. 9 to 12 , adding that Biden will also meet with Italian President Sergio Mattarella and Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni . <p> During Biden 's conversation with the pope , the two men discussed " efforts to advance peace around the world , " according to the White House . <p> " The President thanked the pope for his continued advocacy to alleviate global suffering , including his work to advance human rights and protect religious freedoms , " said a White House readout of the leaders ' call . <p> Before the White House 's official announcement , reporters asked Biden as he departed Marine One whether he planned to visit with the pope in January , a trip first reported by the Associated Press . <p> During the June meeting , the White House said that Biden and Francis discussed the wars in Gaza and Ukraine . <p> " The leaders emphasized the urgent need for an immediate ceasefire and a hostage deal to get the hostages home and address the critical humanitarian crisis in Gaza , " the White House said in the June statement . <p> The president was present at the start of the pope 's tenure in 2013 , when Biden , then in his capacity as vice president , led the American delegation for Francis ' inauguration . <p> Francis , 88 , ascended to the papacy in March 2013 after the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI . <p> Biden 's trip to Italy will take place later than his most recent predecessors ' final international trips in office . President-elect Donald Trump 's final international trip during his first term was to India in February 2020 , shortly before Covid-19 restrictions limited travel , according to the State Department . Former President Barack Obama 's final international trip as president was to Peru in November 2016 , and former President George W. Bush 's final international trip in office was to Afghanistan in December 2008.
