<p> Thank you for visiting nature.com . You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS . To obtain the best experience , we recommend you use a more up to date browser ( or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer ) . In the meantime , to ensure continued support , we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript . <p> Military spending is fuelling wars such as the one in Sudan , forcing people to flee.Credit : Luis Tato/AFP/Getty <p> The fall of the regime of former Syrian president Bashar al-Assad , which brought widespread joy and optimism , was a rare and welcome development in what has mostly been another devastating year of violence and conflict around the world . <p> Wars in Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan have made the past year one of the deadliest in recent times , according to the latest Armed Conflict Survey ( see go.nature.com/3z565x ) , produced by the International Institute for Strategic Studies ( IISS ) , based in London . Worldwide , nearly 200,000 people were killed between 1 July 2023 and 30 June 2024 , a 37% rise from the previous 12-month period . Mark Rutte , the former Netherlands prime minister , now head of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) , said last week that NATO must prepare for a " wartime mindset " , and urged member states to allocate more money to military budgets . In 2023 , according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute , world military spending had risen to an all-time high of nearly US$2.5 trillion , the ninth consecutive annual increase ( see go.nature.com/4gggmuf ) . In Africa , military spending was one-fifth higher than it was in 2022 . But are more wars inevitable ? Why ca n't peace be more of a priority ? These questions need to be asked , and they make a new initiative called Science 4 Peace Africa all the more timely . <p> At last week 's African Academy of Sciences ( AAS ) general assembly in Abuja , Nigeria , Lise Korsten , president of the AAS , which is headquartered in Nairobi , and Sara Clarke-Habibi , a peace-building specialist at the United Nations Institute for Training and Research ( UNITAR ) in Geneva , Switzerland , outlined a way for the African scientific community to work with stakeholders in the pursuit of peace and in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) . <p> Korsten and Clarke-Habibi have set themselves a monumental task , and they are asking the right questions . Perhaps most importantly , their plan does not assume that wars are inevitable . Africa 's leaders and their international partners need to sit up and listen to what they are proposing . <p> Science 4 Peace Africa aims to establish the main drivers of conflict in the continent and see how science cooperation can address them . The approach has two aspects : first , specialists across disciplines and sectors , including research , policy and humanitarian relief , will map existing peace-building initiatives that involve the scientific community and highlight future opportunities . This will then feed into more-detailed consultations for each region . The second aspect is capacity-building : the initiative will train students and researchers in using peace-building tools in education and scholarship . " Research , innovation and teaching can actually reinforce conflict drivers when not developed in a conflict-sensitive way , " Clarke-Habibi and Korsten write in the project 's concept note . <p> This is important work not just for the knowledge and skills it will generate , but also because it will give scientists visibility in fields in which they can lack influence . Science is often not well represented in diplomacy or peace-building , a point also made in a Communications Engineering comment article published last month ( M. M. L ? pez et al . Commun . Eng.3 , 159 ; 2024 ) . The authors of the article say that peace-building efforts are led by people with backgrounds in social and political sciences , law , diplomacy and humanitarian relief . Those with backgrounds in science , engineering and technology need to be among those doing strategic planning . Peace itself is foundational to the SDGs , not least SDG 16 : peace , justice and strong institutions . " When regions are destabilized , research is often interrupted , resources diverted , partnerships falter and knowledge exchange and innovation uptake come to a halt , " say Clarke-Habibi and Korsten . <p> Peace-building organizations such as the Pugwash Conferences on Science in World Affairs were established by scientists in the wake of previous global conflicts . But , they are finding it tough to be heard amid the constant and rising drumbeat of war . The AAS and UNITAR have an innovative plan . It has seed funding from South Africa 's government , and now needs support from other funders and policymakers . There is no law of nature that says that there must be more conflicts and that more people must lose their lives .
