<h> The military noted that jets flew 2,000 kilometers and used over 60 bombs to strike Houthi targets . <p> The IDF published new footage of its strike on Houthi terror targets in Yemen carried out in the early hours of Thursday . <p> The military noted that jets flew 2,000 kilometers and used over 60 bombs to strike Houthi targets , which included oil and fuel tanks , eight tugboats , and two power plants . <p> " The Houthi terror regime has carried out repeated attacks against the State of Israel , launching unmanned aerial vehicles and surface-to-surface missiles toward Israeli territory , most of which were successfully intercepted , " the military 's statement read . <h> UN seeks World Court opinion on Israel 's Palestinian aid obligations <h> The Norwegian-drafted resolution was adopted by the 193-member body with 137 votes in favor . <p> The United Nations General Assembly voted on Thursday to ask the International Court of Justice for an opinion on Israel 's obligations to facilitate aid to Palestinians that is delivered by states and international groups including the UN . <p> The Norwegian-drafted resolution was adopted by the 193-member body with 137 votes in favor . Israel , the United States and 10 other countries voted no , while 22 countries abstained . <p> The move came in response to Israel 's decision to ban the operation of the UN Palestinian refugee agency UNRWA in the country from late January and other obstacles faced by other UN agencies in their aid work in Gaza over the past year . <h> " The United States is committed to targeting Iran 's key revenue streams that fund its destabilizing activities , " Bradley Smith . <p> The United States on Thursday imposed sanctions on Iran and Houthi-related entities , according to the Treasury Department website which listed a number of individuals , companies and vessels that had been targeted . <p> The sanctions target three vessels involved in the trade of Iranian petroleum and petrochemicals , which generate billions of dollars for Iran 's leaders , the Treasury said , supporting its nuclear program , development of ballistic missiles and financing of proxies including Hezbollah , Hamas and the Houthis . <p> " The United States is committed to targeting Iran 's key revenue streams that fund its destabilizing activities , " Bradley Smith , acting under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence , said in a release . Smith said Iran relies on a " shadowy network of vessels , companies , and facilitators for those activities . <h> A new report uncovers how the Houthis have " laundered " some of their officials into their Foreign Ministry in order to continue to sabotage and siphon off humanitarian aid . <p> By YONAH JEREMY BOB Silhouette of a man wearing headphones behind a laptop against a background of the Yemeni flag and flying missiles ( illustrative ) ( photo credit : SHUTTERSTOCK ) <p> The Counter Extremism Project ( CEP ) on Thursday is due to publish a report delving into the unique brutality of the Yemen Houthi intelligence services with the Jerusalem Post exclusively obtaining a copy of the report prior to its publication . <p> The report names some of the top Yemen Houthis intelligence officials which could also lead to new sanctions against some of those individuals . <p> Also , the report uncovers how the Yemen Houthis have " laundered " some of their officials into their Foreign Ministry in order to continue to sabotage and siphon off humanitarian aid after global powers started to notice the intelligence ministry was undertaking such illegal activities . <p> Whoever harms Israel will pay a heavy price , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said , addressing Israel 's strikes on Houthi terror targets in Hodeidah and Yemen 's capital of Sana'a , among others , in the early hours of Thursday . <p> " We did this in response to the Houthis ' recurring attacks on civilian targets in Israel , " he noted , adding that the Houthis had " struck last night a school in Ramat Gan . " <p> " They do not attack only us ; they attack the entire world . They are attacking international shipping and trade routes , so when Israel acts against the Houthis , it is acting on behalf of the entire international community . The Americans understand this aspect , as do many others . " <p> An initial investigation by the Israel Air Force found that part of the warhead from the missile fired from Yemen exploded and caused damage to a school in Ramat Gan following a partial interception , the military said on Thursday .
