<p> In the 1920s and 1930s in Europe , philosophers Gershom Scholem , Franz Rosenzweig , Walter Benjamin , and others relied on the refinement of advanced German thought without an inkling that anything was brewing in the country . They did not know , precisely because of their sophistication and hope in life , joined with materialization , that a monster was lurking in the shadows , planning how to kill all the Jews , one by one , and bury them under the ruins of Europe . <p> Thus Kibbutz Be'eri rested , until 6:30 a.m. on October 7 , among the sweetest of Israeli dreams . It is one of the border kibbutzim known for its pacifism , for seeking a secular tikkun olam , a mending of the world where man helps God to complete the creation . But then , the truth had only one color -- that of Jewish blood -- and the pogrom arrived on pickup trucks . <p> Batya Holin of Kibbutz Kfar Aza , who had prepared with five Gazan photographers a very successful joint exhibition , noted that four of them had disappeared in the days before the massacre . During the killings , the fifth photographer phoned her from within the border , where he had broken in with the monsters , asking her where she was , if there were soldiers around them , and if she was with her whole family . " He was digging for information , " Batya said . " Only then , while they were trying to break into our hiding place , did I understand that he was a terrorist . " <p> To believe that what happened is true , I had to watch , several times over , the footage that the Hamas operatives collected with their video cameras . I had to listen and listen again to 100 horror stories , visit the ruins , meet the survivors ... and it is still hard to believe with my own eyes and my own ears . In the shadows of the tunnels under the buildings in Gaza or up and down the no-man 's land between Gaza and Israel , the Hamas men had been given careful training and detailed instructions for months . Their preparations , like those of the Syrians and Egyptians for the surprise attack of 1973 , were not secret : Hamas leaders held meetings and distributed leaflets with instructions and maps . <p> The orders were : " While rockets are being launched from here Gaza and they are all taking refuge in their homes , invade , kill , rape , tear them apart , burn them , cut off heads and limbs . " Whose ? Everyone 's -- babies , mothers , children , older people , young men and women . And to take into captivity in Gaza the most diverse sectors of Jews , so that the blackmail would affect all of Israeli society . Former Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar on the backdrop of hostage posters . ( Illustrative ) ( credit : FLASH90/CANVA ) <h> The Hamas movement <p> Hamas leader , Yahya Sinwar , used his imagination well , ordering the tearing of children from their mothers ' arms and the killing of mothers in front of their children , inventing every possible way to make the terror more horrendous than that of ISIS , to exterminate in the cruelest manner possible . Sinwar commanded his men to kill babies , brutally rape women of any age , even girls , whether alive or dead ; to castrate men and boys ; to decapitate ; to burn entire families alive together , along with the symbols of their lives . Thus , he forever epitomized the savagery of his movement , making him the absolute leader of contemporary hatred . Sinwar placed Hamas at the head of a worldwide movement for the deconstruction of history that legitimizes rage as the emblem of life . That believes that it must take this action against all of civilization . <p> This movement has decided that the contemporary outcome of history and religion , including the Jewish-Christian civilization and the human rights culture , is advantageous only for those who created it , and so it is a tool of oppression to be ripped to pieces . The diabolical choice to tear down this civilization permits any means to destroy the " colonialists , " the " imperialists , " the " racists , " the rich , the white men , and , above all , of course , the Jews . This concept finds consensus far from Gaza . First in the Muslim world , which places the " Islamophobes " among the oppressors , and along with the students , the LGTBQ movements , the ecological movements that think the Earth will be destroyed by capitalist interests , and the Jews . <p> The UN , the Palestinian Authority , and even the Ivy League universities have still not condemned Sinwar 's atrocities . It is a crime whose " context " is what counts , and nobody expected that after a massacre like October 7 , the destruction of contemporary civilization would piggyback on an antisemitic atrocity . The plan , unlike that of the Nazis in their time , was to destroy the Jews by publicizing as widely as possible the resolve to make them suffer one by one . Hamas leaders repeated the promise " We did it , and we will do it again and again and again . " <p> Once the barbarians entered Israel , they roared down the roads by the hundreds in white pickup trucks and on motorbikes , shooting everyone they encountered , pedestrians and drivers , in the head , and chasing those who tried to escape . They were divided into units , some assigned to close public roads , while others headed for the countryside and the kibbutzim . They were systematic , coming back to seize anyone who might have escaped them . They opened the doors of the cars abandoned at the sides of the roads to make sure everyone was dead and finish off the wounded . Then they came together to shout for joy over the bodies of the dead : " Itbah el Yehud ! Allah hu Akbar ! " They all shouted with the index finger raised , indicating their blasphemous oneness of God , the primal call of jihadism : Allah is great . By cutting off the head of a baby , the murderer was fulfilling the mission of reconquering the land occupied by the Jews , purifying it of the Western and democratic culture. ? <p> Fiamma Nirenstein is an award-winning journalist and author , and former member of the Italian Parliament . This article , printed with permission , is an excerpt from a new book compiled by Moshe Kaplan , MD titled Extreme Trauma : October 7 as an Outlier in the Range of Human Potential .
