<p> " Congratulations to Tucker Carlson for becoming the leading platform for fringe Holocaust deniers , conspiracy theorists , and blood libel enthusiasts who oppose the State of Israel , " Chikli said on social media Tuesday night . <p> Carlson hosted Jeffrey Sachs on his Monday show , who claimed that the collapse of the Syrian regime last Sunday was orchestrated by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as part of a 30-year campaign to remake the Middle East . <h> Israeli-driven foreign policy <p> " Israel has run American foreign policy in the Middle East for 30 years , " said Sachs . " That 's how it works . Now we have the Israel lobby . " <p> Sachs claimed that America had gone to war with Lebanon , Iran , Iraq , Syria , Libya , and Sudan at Netanyahu 's behest . <p> " The United States goes to war on his behalf , " said Sachs . <p> Israel sought to establish a " Greater Israel , " according to Sachs , bringing down any government that supported the Palestinians . The " Greater Israel " conspiracy theory , as described by Sachs , meant either controlling or annexing the West Bank , Gaza , and the Golan Heights or , in a more extreme version , seizing all the territory from the Nile to the Euphrates River . <p> Northeastern University Associate Professor and security expert Max Abrams slammed Sachs on X/Twitter as a liar based on Sachs 's theory , in which he claimed that after September 11 , General Wesley Clark was shown a document that the US would go to war with seven countries on Israel 's behalf . Abrams cited a recounting of the event by Clark , noting , " He never says anything about Israel , Jews , or Zionists . " <p> Breitbart Senior Editor-at-Large Joel Pollak criticized Sachs for describing Syria as a " normal , functioning country " in 2011 , noting that the Ba'athist government had already killed tens of thousands of citizens in earlier civil unrest . <p> Other conservative journalists slammed Sachs as an anti-American communist and questioned why Carlson invited him onto his show . <p> " He 's a major supporter of communist China , and he believes the US should not dominate its rivals and should not lead the world , " Daily Wire reporter Ryan Saavedra said on social media . " He endorsed Marxist Jill Stein for president in 2024 . " <p> Tablet Magazine issued a scathing criticism of Sachs on X as " a failed economist who claimed he had the secrets to eliminating global poverty , got exposed as a fraud , and has reinvented himself as an anti-American , anti-Ukraine , anti-Israel stalwart who constantly lies as he has continued to take in millions and millions of dollars from George Soros . " <p> Carlson had previously courted controversy when he hosted writer Darryl Cooper , who claimed that the death of Nazi prisoners of war and political dissidents was because of poor planning and logistical issues rather than murder . <p> Cooper also argued that former British prime minister Winston Churchill was the chief villain of World War II rather than Adolf Hitler .
