<h> The ANC , once the world 's symbol of resistance against oppression , now supports a political propaganda narrative that views Israel as an apartheid , colonial state . <p> By CHARLES ASHER SMALL DECEMBER 18 , 2024 13:38 <p> South African Ambassador to the Netherlands Vusimuzi Madonsela uses a phone at the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) , during a ruling on South Africa 's request to order a halt to Israel 's Rafah offensive in Gaza as part of a larger case brought before the Hague-based court by South Africa accusin ( photo credit : JOHANNA GERON/REUTERS ) <p> Shortly after the October 7 Hamas attack on Israel , South Africa made headlines by escalating its legal battle against Israel at the International Court of Justice . Amid this legal offensive , another disturbing element began to unfold . The ANC African National Congress political party , mired in financial difficulties , suddenly found itself with renewed resources , and a massive financial debt mysteriously was paid off . As the ANC 's financial outlook improved , some began to question whether its growing ties with extremist governments could be a factor . <p> The ANC has been perceived as a beacon of justice in the struggle against apartheid , with the legendary icons Nelson Mandela , Walter Sisulu , Oliver Tamboo , and other giants who sacrificed much for human rights and justice in the face of a brutal regime that was founded on racism that permeated all aspects of society . <p> I recall my own journey into the anti-apartheid movement , a commitment that began in 1986 as a young political science student at McGill University . In a political science course on South African society , I encountered a reality that influenced my life . Apartheid was not a closed chapter of history ; it was a present , brutal system enforcing racial segregation and oppression , a hierarchy sustained by European colonialism and , disturbingly , Nazi-inspired ideologies . <p> ANC , Jewish leaders 370 ( credit : Courtesy ) <h> The ANC 's vision <p> As a young Jewish student , it was nearly unthinkable to me that such doctrines , which had fueled the atrocities of the Holocaust , could still hold sway . I had assumed , perhaps naively , that the world had firmly rejected these ideals and that the horrific experience of my grandparents ' generation with the Holocaust was relegated to the dustbin of history . Learning of apartheid 's persistence was a call to action out of a deep sense of morality and ethics , foundational elements of my Jewish learning and heritage . I joined the international anti-apartheid movement , after immersing myself in the history of South Africa 's struggle for justice and aligning myself with its central figures and organizations , none more prominent than the ANC . The ANC 's vision -- a democratic , inclusive South Africa where all would be equal citizens , regardless of race , gender , and religion -- was inspiring . <p> Through my involvement , I worked and learned from individuals like Prof. Chengiah Rogers Ragaven , a South African activist forced into exile due to his work with the ANC . In 1987 , he appointed me chairperson of the ANC Solidarity Committee of Canada , enabling me to work with student and labor groups to government and international bodies . My commitment led me to South Africa itself , where I bore witness to the country 's journey from apartheid to democracy . In cities , townships , and squatter camps , I met activists and ordinary citizens who worked tirelessly for a free , democratic South Africa . <p> Tragically , today the ANC has aligned itself with oppressive regimes and ideologies that contradict the very values it once embodied . The Institute for the Study of Global Antisemitism and Policy 's latest report sheds light on this shift , revealing the ANC 's deep alliances with Hamas , Iran , and Qatar . These are not just diplomatic gestures ; these relationships have altered the ANC 's fundamental priorities , transforming South Africa into an emerging hub for terror financing . Through two memorandums with Hamas -- in 2015 and 2018 -- and multiple high-level meetings , the ANC has fortified its relationship with an organization known for acts of terrorism and its anti-democratic , sexist , and antisemitic ideology . Under the guise of humanitarian work , South African organizations have allegedly funneled support to Hamas , embedding the ANC in the global network of terror financing . <p> In addition , the ANC 's partnerships with Iran and Qatar , the overseers of its proxy Hamas , have enabled these regimes to exert influence within South Africa , extending into its economic and political fabric . South Africa 's facilitation of Iran 's entry into the BRICS alliance granted Iran new political leverage . Qatar , through significant investments in South Africa 's energy sector , has only deepened its foothold . As the ISGAP report shows , these relationships are part of a broader strategy that risks destabilizing South Africa and compromising international security . <p> The irony is profound and tragic . The ANC , once the world 's symbol of resistance against oppression , now supports a political propaganda narrative that views Israel as an apartheid , colonial state , while aligning with regimes that promote hate and extremism . For those of us who supported the ANC 's original cause , the alliance with Iran , Qatar , and Hamas is a bitter betrayal of the principles we once struggled for . <p> The ANC 's relationship with terror-linked states and their military proxies demands scrutiny . By bringing a case against Israel to The Hague and enabling financial networks that funnel resources to organizations like Hamas , the ANC has positioned South Africa as a link in the global web of terror financing . When the ANC accuses Israel of being an apartheid state , like Iran , Hamas , and other brutal terror-supporting entities and states , it calls for the elimination of the existence of Israel . What is even more pathetic is that the ANC is doing this in the aftermath of the October 7 pogrom , the most brutal massacre of Jews since the Holocaust , in which the ideology and policies of Hamas were transparent for all to witness with clarity . For the ANC leadership to align itself with Hamas especially now , for money , is repugnant and an insult to the people of South Africa . <p> The international community can no longer ignore South Africa 's troubling trajectory . The ANC 's shift marks a critical turning point . It is time for the world to re-evaluate South Africa 's global role and hold the ANC to the standards of justice and human rights that once defined its struggle . ?
