<p> Local educators and the ADL are pushing for an apology from MassCUE after the group 's recent " jarring " conference when speakers reportedly spewed " hateful " anti-Israel and Holocaust rhetoric . <p> MassCUE 's fall education tech conference -- held in partnership with the Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents at Gillette Stadium -- apparently went off the rails during a panel on equity in education . That 's when the discussion reportedly delved into the current Middle East conflict in Israel and Gaza . <p> " Speakers leaned very heavily into the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in a very one-sided , dangerous rhetoric , " Uxbridge High School Principal Michael Rubin told the Herald . <p> That included references to " Israeli genocide " and " Israeli apartheid . " <p> A panelist also suggested that the teaching of the Holocaust has been one-sided , and " two perspectives needed to be taught , " recalled Rubin , whose grandparents survived the Holocaust , during which the Nazis killed 6 million Jews . <p> " It was jarring , unexpected , and unprofessional , " added Rubin , who 's also the president of his synagogue . <p> Following complaints from several shocked conference attendees , the Anti-Defamation League 's New England chapter recently wrote a letter to MassCUE , as the ADL pushes for a public apology . <p> " It is difficult to understand why an organization dedicated to education and technology would allow a panel discussion ostensibly focused on school equity to instead veer into a complex and controversial foreign conflict , " ADL New England 's deputy director Sara Colb wrote to MassCUE 's leaders . <p> " It is all the more concerning that once the conversation veered in that direction it was not stopped or redirected to the advertised topic , " Colb added . " Allowing a presentation purporting to be about equity and inclusion in the classroom to include a one-sided narrative of a foreign conflict , replete with hateful , biased rhetoric , does a disservice to attendees by leaving them with a biased and misinformed account of the conflict . " <p> MassCUE ( Massachusetts Computer Using Educators ) is the Bay State affiliate of the International Society for Technology in Education . <p> More than two months after the fall conference , the organization has not addressed the Israeli-Palestinian discussion . <p> " At MassCUE we take feedback very seriously and work hard to ensure we take any and all necessary steps to address concerns that are brought to our attention , " said MassCUE Board President Casey Daigle . " This process takes time . Please know we are working through our procedures internally . " <p> The silence from MassCUE 's leaders has been " really concerning , " Rubin emphasized . <p> " How comments like these about the Holocaust do n't warrant an immediate response is really , really , really confusing to me , " added Rubin , who was given the 2024 MassCUE Administrator Award two days before this panel . <p> " If a student was targeted by a racial slur in our buildings , we would be involving local authorities , contacting families , sending a letter to the community , but MassCUE is working through their internal procedures . It does n't add up , " he said . <p> The executive director of the Massachusetts Association of School Superintendents said M.A.S.S. was " troubled to hear that any of the speakers at the conference may have made statements that are inconsistent with the anti-racist values of our organization . " <p> " We are working with MassCUE to learn more about the content in question , " added Executive Director Mary Bourque . <p> Other than ADL 's push for a public apology from MassCUE , the ADL is calling for the organization to : <p> Review its policies and vetting protocols for presentations at programs and make all necessary improvements to ensure that presenters stay on topic , and that " participants will not be subjected to this sort of inflammatory propaganda again . " <p> Listen to the concerns of impacted members and participants , and elicit their thoughts on how to " counter the harm this presentation caused . " <p> Issue a public statement acknowledging the problems with this program and reinforcing MassCUE 's values of inclusivity for everyone . <p> " At a time when incidents of antisemitic hate , including in our K-12 schools , are at record highs , it is deeply wrong and dangerous to provide a platform for such hateful rhetoric or to allow a platform to be hijacked for such purposes , " the ADL deputy director wrote . " It is surprising to have to make this point to educators who purport to be concerned with equitable and inclusive classrooms for all students . "
