<p> Hamas has been designated a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada , and European Union . <p> Ten days later , a pregnant Carmel , her husband and their toddler boarded a flight to Australia , which was looking for people in her husband 's profession . And they spun the explanation to friends and family as something other than permanent -- " relocation " is the easier-to-swallow term -- acutely aware of the familial strain and the shame that have shadowed Israelis who leave for good . <p> " We told them we 're going to get out of the line of fire for awhile , " Carmel said more than a year later from her family 's new home in Melbourne . " It was n't a hard decision . But it was very hard to talk to them about it . It was even hard to admit it to ourselves . " <p> Thousands of Israelis have left the country since Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to government statistics and immigration tallies released by destination countries such as Canada and Germany . There 's concern about whether it will drive a " brain drain " in sectors like medicine and tech . Migration experts say it 's possible people leaving Israel will surpass the number of immigrants to Israel in 2024 , according to Sergio DellaPergola , a statistician and professor emeritus of Hebrew University in Jerusalem . <p> " In my view , this year people entering will be smaller than the total of the exit , " he said . " And this is quite unique in the existence of the State of Israel . " <h> Early information points to a surge of Israelis leaving <p> The Oct. 7 effect on Israeli emigration is enough for prominent Israelis to acknowledge the phenomenon publicly -- and warn of rising antisemitism elsewhere . <p> " There is one thing that worries me in particular : talks about leaving the country . This must not happen , " former premier Naftali Bennett , a staunch critic of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , tweeted in June after a conversation with friends who were leaving . Israel , he wrote , needs to retain the talent . " Who wants to return to the days of the wandering Jew , without real freedom , without a state , subject to every anti-Semitic whim ? " <p> Thousands of Israelis have opted to pay the financial , emotional and social costs of moving out since the Oct. 7 attack , according to government statistics and families who spoke to The Associated Press in recent months after emigrating to Canada , Spain and Australia . Israel 's overall population continues to grow toward 10 million people . <p> Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics estimated in September that 40,600 Israelis departed long-term over the first seven months of 2024 , a 59% increase over the same period a year earlier , when 25,500 people left . Monthly , 2,200 more people departed this year than in 2023 , CBS reported . <p> The Israeli Ministry of Immigration and Absorption , which does not deal with people leaving , said more than 33,000 people have moved to Israel since the start of the war , about on par with previous years . The interior minister refused to comment for this story . <p> The numbers are equally dramatic in destination countries . More than 18,000 Israelis applied for German citizenship in 2024 , more than double the same period in 2023 and three times that of the year before , the Interior Ministry reported in September . <p> Canada , which has a three-year work visa program for Israelis and Palestinians fleeing the war , received 5,759 applications for work permits from Israeli citizens between January and October this year , the government told The Associated Press . In 2023 , that number was 1,616 applications , and a year earlier the tally was 1,176 applications , according to Immigration , Refugees and Citizenship Canada . <h> ' They want to wake up in the morning and enjoy life ' <p> Other clues , too , point to a notable departure of Israelis since the Oct. 7 attacks . Gil Fire , deputy director of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center , said that some of its star specialists with fellowship postings of a few years in other countries began to waver about returning . <p> " Before the war , they always came back and it was not really considered an option to stay . And during the war we started to see a change , " he said . " They said to us , ' We will stay another year , maybe two years , maybe more . ' " <p> Fire says it 's " an issue of concern " enough for him to plan in-person visits with these doctors in the coming months to try to draw them back to Israel . <p> Michal Harel , who moved with her husband to Toronto in 2019 , said that almost immediately after the attacks the phone began ringing -- with other Israelis seeking advice about moving to Canada . On Nov. 23 , 2023 , the couple set up a website to help Israelis navigate moving , which can cost at least 100,000 Israeli shekels , or about $28,000 , Harel and other Israeli relocation experts said . <p> Not everyone in Israel can just pack up and move overseas . Many of those who have made the move have foreign passports , jobs at multinational corporations or can work remotely . People in Gaza have even less choice . The vast majority of Gaza 's 2.3 million people have been displaced by relentless Israeli bombing since Oct. 7 , 2023 , yet no one has been able to leave the enclave since May . Before then , at least 100,000 Palestinians are believed to have left Gaza . <p> Health officials in Gaza say Israeli bombing has killed more than 45,000 people . <p> Speaking by phone last month , Harel reported that the site has received views from 100,000 unique visitors and 5,000 direct contacts in 2024 alone . <p> " It 's people who want to move quickly with families , to wake up in the morning and enjoy life , " she said . " Right now ( in Israel ) , it 's trauma , trauma , trauma . " <p> " Some of them , " Harel added , " they want to keep everything a secret . " <h> Leaving Zion , a threat to Israel and a shame ? <p> Aliya -- the Hebrew term for immigration , literally the " ascent " of Jews into Israel -- has always been part of the country 's plan . But " yerida " -- the term used for leaving the country , literally the " descent " of Jews from Israel to the diaspora , emphatically has not . <p> For Israel 's first decades of independence , the government strongly discouraged departing Israelis , who were seen in some cases as cowardly and even treasonous . A sacred trust and a social contract took root in Israeli society . The terms go -- or went -- like this : Israeli citizens would serve in the military and pay high taxes . In exchange , the army would keep them safe . Meanwhile , it 's every Jew 's obligation to stay , work and fight for Israel 's survival . <p> " Emigration was a threat , especially in the early years ( when ) there were problems of nation-building . In later decades , Israel became more established and more self-confident , " said Ori Yehudai , a professor of Israel studies at Ohio State University and the author of " Leaving Zion , " a history of Israeli emigration . The sense of shame is more of a social dynamic now , he said , but " people still feel they have to justify their decision to move . " <p> Shira Carmel says she has no doubt about her decision . She 'd long objected to Netanyahu 's government 's efforts to overhaul the legal system , and was one of the first women to don the blood-red " Handmaid 's Tale " robes that became a fixture of the anti-government protests of 2023 . She was terrified as a new mom , and a pregnant one , during the Hamas attack , and appalled at having to tell her toddler that they were gathering in the bomb shelter for " hugging parties " with the neighbors . This was not the life she wanted . <p> Meanwhile , Australia beckoned . Carmel 's brother had lived there for two decades . The couple had the equivalent of a green card due to Carmel 's husband 's profession . In the days after the attack , Carmel 's brother alerted her to the possibility of a flight out of Israel for free , if on very short notice , which she confirmed with the Australian embassy in Israel . Basic logic , she says , pointed toward moving . <p> And yet . <p> Carmel recalls the frenzied hours before the flight out in which she said to her husband in the privacy of their bedroom : " My God , are we really doing this ? " <p> They decided not to decide , opting instead for : " We 're just getting on a plane for now , being grateful . " They packed lightly . <p> On the ground half a world away , weeks became months . And they decided : " I 'm not going to go back to try to give birth in the war . " In December , they told their families back in Israel that they were staying " for now . " <p> " We do n't define it as ' forever , ' " Carmel said Tuesday . " But we are for sure staying for the foreseeable future . " <p> Associated Press writers Melanie Lidman in Jerusalem and Tia Goldenberg in Tel Aviv contributed to this report . Laurie Kellman is based in London and has been writing about politics and global affairs for the AP for 27 years . She reported from Israel from 2020 to 2023.
