<p> Aviva Siegel , the wife of American hostage Kieth Siegel and a former hostage herself , is pleading with everyone and anyone involved in the hostage negotiations to get her husband , and the others , freed from Hamas captivity after they have spent more than 440 days in deplorable conditions . <p> " Hamas released a video of Keith , and I just saw the picture , " Aviva told Fox News Digital in an emotional interview in reference to a video Hamas released in April . " He looks terrible . His bones are out , and you can see that he 's lost a lot of weight . <p> " He does n't look like himself . And I 'm just so worried about him , because so many days and minutes have passed since that video that we received , " she said . " I just do n't know what kind of Keith that we 're going to get back . " <p> " I 'm worried about all the hostages , because the conditions that they are in are the worst conditions that any human being could go through , " Aviva said . " I was there . I touched death . I know what it feels being underneath the ground with no oxygen . <p> " Keith and I were just left there . We were left there to die , " she added . <p> Aviva and her husband of , at the time 42 years , were brutally abducted from their home in Kibbutz Kfar Aza by Hamas on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and held together for 51 days before she was released in the November 2023 hostage exchange after suffering from a stomach infection that left her incredibly ill . <p> Aviva called on her husband and all other hostages held by Hamas to be released . <p> She has since tirelessly fought for Kieth 's release , meeting with top officials in the US and Israel , traveling to the United States nine times in the last year and becoming a prominent advocate for the hostages . <p> " I just hope that he 's with other people from Israel , and if he has them , he 's going to be okay , " Aviva said . " He 's just the person that will make them feel that they 're together . That 's what he did when I was there -- he was 100% for me and the hostages that we were with . " <p> " If you get kidnapped , get kidnapped with Keith , because he was outstanding to everybody . He was strong for all of us . And I 'm sure that he 's keeping strong and keeping his hope to come out , " she said . <p> Aviva recounted their last moments together before they were separated ahead of her release , telling Fox News Digital , " When I left him , I told him to be the strongest -- that he needs to be strong for me , and I 'll be strong for him . " <p> Top security officials from the US , Egypt , and Qatar have been pushing Israel and Hamas to agree to a cease-fire and the return of hostages . <p> Reports on Thursday suggested that negotiators are pushing for a 42-day cease-fire in which 34 of the at least 50 hostages still assessed to be alive , could be exchanged . <p> The Siegels were abducted from Kibbutz Kfar Aza during the Oct. 7 attacks . AP Photo/Maya Alleruzzo <p> Hamas is also believed to continue to hold at least 38 who were taken hostage and then killed while in captivity , along with at least seven who are believed to have been killed on Oct. 7 , 2023 and then taken into Gaza . <p> Though all the hostages are believed to have been held in deplorable conditions , the children , women -- including the female IDF soldiers -- the sick and the elderly have reportedly been front listed to be freed first in exchange for Hamas terrorists currently imprisoned . <p> " I 'm keeping my hope and holding on and just waiting -- waiting to hug Keith , and waiting for all the families , to get their families back , " Aviva said . " We need to get them back . " <p> Aviva said the hostages are in the " worst conditions that any human being could go through . " James Messerschmidt <p> Aviva said she dreams of the moment that she gets to hug her husband again and watch their grandchildren " jump into his arms . " <p> " We 'll be the happiest people on Earth , " she said . " All the hostages , I ca n't imagine them coming home . It 'll be just the happiest moment for all of the families . We need it to happen . " <p> Reports in recent weeks suggest there is an increased sense of optimism in bringing home the hostages , but Secretary of State Antony Blinken urged some caution when speaking with MSNBC Morning Joe on Thursday when he said , " We are encouraged because this should happen , and it should happen because Hamas is at a point where the cavalry it thought might come to the rescue is n't coming to the rescue , Hezbollah 's not coming to the rescue , Iran 's not coming to the rescue . " <p> " In the absence of that , I think the pressure is on Hamas to finally get to yes , " he added . " But look , I think we also have to be very realistic . We 've had these Lucy and the football moments several times over the last months where we thought we were there , and the football gets pulled away . <p> " The real question is : Is Hamas capable of making a decision and getting to yes ? We 've been fanning out with every possible partner on this to try to get the necessary pressure exerted on Hamas to say yes , " Blinken added .
