<h> AP News Summary at 12:10 a.m . EST <p> What Trump 's decision to wade into spending fight tells us about the next 4 years <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- After days of threats and demands , Donald Trump had little to show for it once lawmakers passed a budget deal . The president-elect successfully pushed House Republicans to jettison some spending . But he failed to achieve his central goal of raising the debt limit . It 's clear that despite his decisive election win and frequent promises of retribution , many members of his party are willing to openly defy him . Trump 's decision to inject himself into the budget debate a month before his inauguration also is a sign that his second term could be marked by the same infighting and brinksmanship that characterized his first . <p> Two US Navy pilots shot down over Red Sea in apparent ' friendly fire ' incident , US military says <p> DUBAI , United Arab Emirates ( AP ) -- The U.S. military says two U.S. Navy pilots have been shot down over the Red Sea in an apparent " friendly fire " incident . Both pilots were recovered alive , with one suffering minor injuries in the incident on Sunday . The incident came as the U.S. military conducted airstrikes targeting Yemen 's Houthi rebels , though the U.S. military 's Central Command did not elaborate on what their mission was at the time . " The guided missile cruiser USS Gettysburg , which is part of the USS Harry S. Truman Carrier Strike Group , mistakenly fired on and hit the F/A-18 , which was flying off the USS Harry S. Truman , " Central Command said in a statement . <p> Winter is hitting Gaza and many Palestinians have little protection from the cold <p> KHAN YOUNIS , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Nearly two million displaced Palestinians in Gaza are struggling to protect themselves from the coming winter . This comes as Israel 's 14-month-old war with Hamas drags on . The prices of blankets , wood , and winter clothing have skyrocketed amid shortages . The tents many people live in are growing increasingly tattered . Aid workers say nearly a million people need winterization supplies and that thousands of tents , blankets and mattresses are stuck awaiting delivery into Gaza in part because of Israeli restrictions . <p> In Assad 's hometown , few shared in his family 's fortune . They hope they wo n't share in his downfall <p> QARDAHA , Syria ( AP ) -- On the walls of the palatial mausoleum built to house the remains of former Syrian President Hafez Assad -- whose son , Bashar Assad , was ousted two weeks ago -- vandals have sprayed variations of the phrase , " Damn your soul , Hafez . " While the Assads lived in luxury , most residents of the ousted president 's hometown of Qardaha survived on manual labor , low-level civil service jobs and farming to eke out a living . Many , like Assad , are members of the Alawite minority sect . They sent their sons to serve in Assad 's army , not out of loyalty to the regime but because they had no other options . Now they remain hopeful they wo n't share in repercussions from Assad 's downfall . <p> Germans mourn the 5 killed and 200 injured in the apparent attack on a Christmas market <p> MAGDEBURG , Germany ( AP ) -- Church bells rang out in the German city of Magdeburg exactly 24 hours after authorities say a man drove into a busy Christmas market , killing five people and injuring 200 others . Friday 's attack in the city of roughly 240,000 people shook the public 's sense of security at what would otherwise be a time of joy and wonder . Authorities said Saturday that 41 people were injured seriously enough that the death toll could rise further . The driver , a 50-year-old doctor who immigrated from Saudi Arabia in 2006 , surrendered to police at the scene . A prosecutor says that among other things , investigators are looking into whether the attack might have been motivated by the suspect 's dissatisfaction with the German treatment Saudi refugees . <p> 38 people are dead and over 100 missing in Congo after a ferry capsizes on the Busira River <p> KINSHASA , Congo ( AP ) -- Officials say 38 people are confirmed dead , and over 100 missing in Congo after an overloaded ferry -- full of people returning home for Christmas -- capsized . Twenty people are confirmed to have been rescued so far . The boat was traveling on the Busira River in the northeast of the Congo as part of a convoy of other vessels , according to the mayor of the last town the boat visited . The latest tragedy occurred less than four days after another boat in the northeast of the country capsized , killing 25 . <p> Hall of Famer Rickey Henderson , baseball 's stolen base king , has died at 65 <p> OAKLAND , Calif . ( AP ) -- Baseball Hall of Famer and stolen base king Rickey Henderson has died . He was 65 . Known as baseball 's " Man of Steal , " Henderson had a lengthy list of accolades and accomplishments over his nomadic 25-year career . He was an MVP , 10-time All-Star selection , two-time World Series champion and Gold Glove winner . But it was stealing bases where Henderson made his name . He broke Lou Brock 's single-season record of 118 by stealing 130 bases in 1982 and led the league in steals for seven straight seasons and 12 overall . He broke Brock 's career record when he stole his 939th base on May 1 , 1991 . Henderson finished his career with 1,406 steals . <p> As flooding becomes a yearly disaster in South Sudan , thousands survive on the edge of a canal <p> AYOD , South Sudan ( AP ) -- Flooding is becoming a yearly disaster in South Sudan . The World Bank has described the nation as " the world 's most vulnerable country to climate change and also the one most lacking in coping capacity . " Tens of thousands of South Sudanese perch in makeshift communities on the rare high ground of the Jonglei Canal . Seasonal flooding has long been part of the lifestyle of pastoral communities around the Sudd , the largest wetland in Africa . But the swamp keeps growing , submerging villages , ruining farmland and killing livestock . Residents describe wading for hours to the nearest clinic through waters where poisonous snakes are a risk . <p> The water was their livelihood . Now Thailand 's sea nomads work to preserve a vanishing way of life <p> SURIN ISLANDS , Thailand ( AP ) -- The Moken , a group of indigenous people from Thailand and Myanmar , once sailed freely between the archipelago of 800 islands off the coast of the two countries . Colloquially known as sea nomads , they lived aboard boats called kabangs for months at a time , and got sustenance from the sea . They became known to the world when they saved tourists from the powerful Indian Ocean Tsunami in 2004 . Today , with strict borders and limited ability to make the kabangs that are so central to their identity , the Moken are working on to hold onto their traditions against powerful forces of change . <p> OMAHA , Neb . ( AP ) -- Nebraska 's third-largest high school decided not to play varsity girls basketball this year after no juniors or seniors went out for the sport . But Grand Island is not alone . Participation in girls high school basketball is down roughly 20% over the past two decades . At the same time , volleyball , soccer and track and field all have been surging in popularity . So it seems the highly touted Caitlin Clark effect has yet to take hold . The WNBA star 's record-setting run at the University of Iowa was supposed to inspire more girls to start shooting hoops . More people than ever are watching women 's college and pro games , but that has n't translated into more players in high school . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
