<p> The Biden administration is facing mounting pressure to dole out tens of millions of taxpayer dollars to a left-wing nonprofit that advocates for defunding the police , prison abolition and the " liberation " of Palestinian territories before President-elect Donald Trump takes office . <p> The left-wing advocates lobbying President Joe Biden include members of his own administration 's staff . <p> A group of federal government employees , dubbed the " federal environment and energy workers for justice in Palestine , " wrote an open letter to the White House , Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and Department of Energy ( DOE ) published on Medium on Thursday . The anonymous career staffers are demanding that the administration disburse all designated federal funds to the Climate Justice Alliance ( CJA ) and end collaboration with Israel . <p> " While our work typically does not engage on foreign policy issues , the ongoing genocide in Gaza has compelled us to speak truthfully on the hypocrisy of protecting human health and the environment within U.S. borders while our government continues to fund and facilitate the destruction of entire communities and ecosystems overseas , " the group of federal government employees wrote . " We call upon EPA and DOE to end their collaboration with Israel until there is a permanent ceasefire and an end to the occupation of Palestine . We also urge EPA Administrator Michael Regan and the White House to release all designated federal funds to Climate Justice Alliance . " <p> " Palestine is an environmental and climate justice issue , " the group added . " There can be no climate and environmental justice within the United States while we perpetuate climate and environmental disasters abroad . " <p> With just 30 days until Trump takes office , the EPA has not moved forward in obligating the grant money to the left-wing nonprofit . Given CJA 's history of engaging in anti-Israel advocacy following Hamas ' October 7th attacks and promoting the " defund the police " movement , the Trump administration will almost certainly decline to transfer any taxpayer dollars to the nonprofit . <p> The Trump transition previously told the Daily Caller News Foundation that the incoming administration , in addition to repealing the IRA , is planning to redirect unspent funding from the legislation Trump has nicknamed the " Green New Scam " to spending on infrastructure . <p> " The American people re-elected President Trump because they trust him to lead our country and restore peace through strength around the world , " Brian Hughes , Trump-Vance Transition spokesman told the DCNF in a statement on Friday . " When he returns to the White House , he will take the necessary action to do just that . " <p> ' Deeply Disappointed ' In Admin For Withholding Grant Money <p> In December 2023 , the EPA selected CJA , a Berkeley , California-based " environmental justice " nonprofit , to receive a $50 million grant award under the IRA 's $3 billion Environmental and Climate Justice Block Grants provision . <p> The EPA 's selectees include recipients that operate in China under the supervision of the Chinese Communist Party foreign influence operation , support open borders , hand out funds to a group blacklisted by U.S. credit card companies over their fiscal support for a Palestinian terror group and advocate for defunding the U.S. military , according to the DCNF 's extensive reporting on the program . <p> Tlaib joined 51 other Democratic lawmakers in sending a letter to Biden on Dec. 4 , urging the administration to " move expeditiously " to disburse all IRA money before Trump takes office , which would include the funds designated for CJA . <p> The group 's federal employees have also come to CJA 's defense stating , " voicing opposition to genocide should not be politicized . " <p> " In our roles as civil servants , we commit to ensuring that taxpayer dollars are used responsibly to serve the good of the public , " the agency career staff added . " We have been deeply disappointed to witness EPA 's current withholding of $60 million to the Climate Justice Alliance , the only one of the eleven grantees that courageously spoke out against the environmental toll and human rights violations in Palestine . " <p> ' Condemn ' Biden Admin 's Israel Ties <p> The group of federal employees also demand that EPA and DOE cut all ties with Israel , citing their belief that the Israeli military is committing genocide in Gaza . <p> The career staff also chastised the Biden administration for allegedly prioritizing military aid to Israel over " environmental and climate justice work . " <p> " We are horrified by the billions of taxpayers ' dollars being diverted overseas to fund Israel 's military campaign while crucial needs of people in this country go unaddressed , " the group wrote . " The ongoing siege on Gaza directly impacts our efforts to combat climate change and protect the environment . " <p> The government employees ' anti-Israel advocacy follows several Biden officials resigning since October 7th over the administration 's policies toward Israel and the war in Gaza . <p> The White House , EPA and DOE did not respond to the DCNF 's multiple requests for comment . <p> All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation , an independent and nonpartisan newswire service , is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience . All republished articles must include our logo , our reporter 's byline and their DCNF affiliation . For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us , please contact **39;1233;TOOLONG . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours .
