<h> Staring at America <p> Photographs and Text by Taryn Simon <p> undefined <p> For six months this year , Taryn Simon followed the political vapor trail to document the people , spaces and objects central to the 2024 presidential campaigns . Ms. Simon , who works at a distance from the daily news cycle , examines our distracted national gaze and desires , letting us pause and look at what we all experienced . " You ca n't see anything reflected in boiling water . But when it 's still , water is a mirror , " she said . " It 's still in the anticipation , and it 's still in the aftermath . But we 're told to watch when it 's boiling . " <p> Ms. Simon traveled to many locations , including Springfield , Ohio , to find the cat at the center of the false claims about the town 's Haitian immigrants ; to Feasterville-Trevose , Pa. , to photograph French fries from the McDonald 's where Donald Trump held a campaign event ; and to Merritt Island , Fla. , for the launch of one of Elon Musk 's SpaceX rockets . <p> Ms. Simon said she sees her work as " a shaky hand holding a spotlight . These photographs mark where the light landed -- what we chose as a nation to give our attention to . And I guess this attention and where it was given defines who we are and what we will end up being . " <p> 01Republican National ConventionMilwaukee <p> Mr. Trump made his first public appearance at the Republican National Convention just two days after a gunman tried to kill him at a rally in Butler , Pa . In a speech accepting the party 's nomination for president three days later , he said , " The amazing thing is that prior to the shot , if I had not moved my head at that very last instant , the assassin 's bullet would have perfectly hit its mark , and I would not be here tonight . We would not be together . " He added , " I stand before you in this arena only by the grace of Almighty God . " <p> **32;984;TOOLONG , Pa . <p> Mr. Trump dunked a basket of fries in oil , salted them , scooped them into containers and handed orders to drive-through customers at a McDonald 's in Pennsylvania 16 days before the election . He often deploys fast food at public events and on social media . He served Big Macs at the White House and to Mr. Musk , Donald Trump Jr . and Robert F. Kennedy Jr . on his private plane . <p> 03Wanda KaganMontreal <p> Wanda Kagan and Kamala Harris first met at a Black community center in Montreal . During her campaign for the presidency , Ms. Harris frequently spoke of rescuing Ms. Kagan from a sexually abusive home when they were in high school and providing a safe place for her to live . <p> 04Fox News HeadquartersNew York City <p> Fox News media reaches a monthly audience of nearly 200 million . Fox News was the No. 1 cable news channel on television this year and the most watched network in every swing state . On election night , it had more prime-time viewers than ABC , CBS , NBC , MSNBC and CNN . It is the only cable outlet whose audience has grown since the election . <p> 05Capitol Police HeadquartersWashington , D.C. <p> The United States Capitol Police is responsible for protecting the legislative branch of government . After the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol , the agency increased the number of officers trained in civil disturbance tactics , expanded intelligence capabilities and updated its standard-issue riot gear to address vulnerabilities amid growing threats to Congress . <p> 06Thomas CavanaughMilwaukee <p> Mr. Cavanaugh is a student protester who converted to Islam in March . He confronted Ms. Harris about her stance on Gaza , calling Israel 's actions genocide , at a closed-door campaign event at the University of Wisconsin , Milwaukee . After the interruption she said , " Listen , what he 's talking about , it 's real . " Many saw her response as agreement . Her campaign team later said , " She did n't agree with defining the war as a genocide , and she has not expressed such a stance in the past , as this is not her position . " <p> 07Election WarehousePhiladelphia <p> The 727,595 ballots cast in Philadelphia County were received -- some in sealed containers with red tags -- sorted , tabulated and stored at a 230,000-square-foot facility that was once home to a Bible printing plant . Ms. Harris and Mr. Trump visited Pennsylvania 33 times in the three months leading up to the election . <p> 08Cowboy Kamala Sash and Cowboy Carter Incense <p> During the four days of the Democratic National Convention , delegates from Washington State wore " Cowboy Kamala " sashes and hats with flashing lights modeled after Beyonc ? ' s " Cowboy Carter " album cover . Beyonc ? later appeared with Ms. Harris at a rally in Texas . Mr. Trump , who was holding a rally at the same time in Michigan , said to the audience , " Kamala is at a dance party with Beyonc ? . " <p> 09Miss SassySpringfield , Ohio <p> A Springfield resident reportedly told police that she thought her Haitian neighbors had stolen her cat , Miss Sassy , and chopped her up . JD Vance used a police report to justify his claim that Haitian immigrants were abducting and eating people 's pets . Local officials noted there was no evidence to support this claim . <p> 10Representative Jasmine Crockett 's Eyelashes <p> At a congressional hearing held after hours , Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene demeaned Representative Jasmine Crockett 's appearance , saying , " I think your fake eyelashes are messing up what you 're reading . " Seeking clarification on House rules about remarks on " personality , " Ms. Crockett asked if it would be acceptable to comment on " somebody 's bleach blond , bad-built butch body . " Ms. Greene went on to campaign for Mr. Trump , and Ms. Crockett campaigned for Ms. Harris . <p> Ms. Crockett 's lashes are individually sewn on by a lash technician . She keeps a pair of false lashes ( shown here ) on hand in case of emergency . <p> 11SpaceX Dragon LaunchNASA Kennedy Space Center , Merritt Island , Fla . <p> Mr. Musk 's SpaceX Dragon launched into space the night before the election . Its mission was to deliver food , supplies and equipment to the International Space Station crew . The payload also included Antarctic moss for an experiment to observe the effects of cosmic radiation and microgravity on plants and their survival in space . In his victory speech , Mr. Trump , commenting on Mr. Musk , said , " Oh , let me tell you , we have a new star . A star is born , Elon . " <p> 12The YardHoward University , Washington , D.C. <p> Damaris Moore , Miss Howard University , sang the national anthem to the crowd of Harris supporters on election night who were anticipating the vice president 's arrival . They watched live performances and speeches while results rolled in on outdoor screens displaying CNN . Ms. Harris did not appear until the next day , when she gave her concession speech . <p> Taryn Simon is a visual artist who uses photography , sculpture , text , sound and performance for her projects , which center on storytelling , secrecy and the hidden contours of power . Her work has been exhibited and is in the collections of the Guggenheim in New York , the Tate Modern in London , the Centre Pompidou in Paris and the Neue Nationalgalerie in Berlin , among others .
