<h> Lululemon just dropped a ton of new We Made Too Much finds -- it 's the last day for Christmas delivery <h> You can still get presents in time for Dec. 25 -- but hurry ! <p> Have you left your holiday shopping to the very last minute ? Do n't worry , there 's still time ! Lululemon just dropped tons of new We Made Too Much styles , and if you order by tonight ( Dec. 21 ) at 11:59 p.m . PST , you can still receive your gifts before Christmas . <h> Dance Studio Mid-Rise Pant Regular <h> Wunder Train High-Rise Tight 25 " <h> Wundermost Ultra-Soft Nulu Short-Sleeve Crew Thong Bodysuit <p> Whether you 're shopping for someone sporty or fashion-forward , there are dozens of exciting finds that anyone would be excited to unwrap on Dec. 25 . We rounded up some of our favourite picks that we think would make excellent gifts -- including as a present to yourself , because you deserve it ! Take a look at 11 of our favourite items ; just scroll onwards to see all the chic pieces . <p> From yoga to dressy looks , this strappy tank adds a little something extra to your outfit with fun details and a cute keyhole at the neckline . Shoppers say it " gives enough support " and note that it 's " super comfy . " <h> Latest Stories <p> A rural Manitoba family scheduled to travel Sunday to the Dominican Republic is feeling stressed and frustrated after waiting weeks for their passports only to be sent the wrong documents earlier this week.When a package was delivered to Portage la Prairie , Man. , by a courier service on Wednesday , the family was shocked to find out the three passports they were sent actually belong to a family from Ontario . " Our jaws dropped . Our minds were blown , " said Kristen Harley . " I could n't believe it . " Pas <p> A piece of driftwood from Vancouver Island has narrowly won the title of " Stick of the Year " in an inaugural contest that saw thousands of votes cast for competitors from around the world.To earn the accolade , the sword-like piece of wood had to beat sticks from Portugal , the Dominican Republic and Germany , among other countries.But Marcus Barrick , a Duncan , B.C.-based musician and author , believed in the power of the stick he found while walking through the woods . " This thing 's like the most maj <p> Blake Lively has accused her " It Ends With Us " director and co-star Justin Baldoni of sexual harassment . In a bombshell complaint , the actress alleges that Baldoni attempted to mount a smear campaign against her and claims his behavior caused her and her family " severe emotional harm , " according to a copy obtained by Variety . Bryan Freedman , ... <p> Calls are growing from within the Liberal caucus for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to step down as party leader -- and some have pegged Chrystia Freeland as their choice to replace him.Twenty-one Liberal MPs have publicly urged Trudeau to resign -- many of them within the last week -- after Freeland shocked Canadians on Monday by resigning as deputy prime minister and finance minister hours before she was supposed to table the government 's fall economic statement.Among the Liberal MPs publicly call <p> A top Democratic voice has praised members of her party for " swooping in like superman and super women " amid the legislative " disarray " that nearly caused a government shutdown . Speaking on Saturday with MSNBC 's Ali Velshi , Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett warned House Speaker Mike Johnson is " not going to get any favors out of " her party ahead of the 119th Congress in the new year . Her comments came after a spending bill was approved in the eleventh hour to fund the federal government until mid-Marc <p> For an easy appetizer that looks and tastes caterer-made , mix pre-cooked shrimp with spicy mayo and serve in little endive canoes . See recipe . Once you have tangy tomato powder -- made from dehydrated and pulverized tomatoes -- in your arsenal , you 'll never run out of ways to use it . See recipe . Frozen artichokes make easy work of this game day , holiday , movie night , slumber party , and all-around good-time favorite . <p> " Everybody wants to be my friend ! " Trump exclaimed on Truth Social the morning after the dinner The post Elon Musk Crashing Trump 's Jeff Bezos Dinner at Mar-a-Lago Mocked as ' Deranged ' appeared first on TheWrap . <p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- A rocket fired from Yemen hit an area of Tel Aviv overnight , leaving 16 people injured by shattered glass , the Israeli military said Saturday , days after Israeli airstrikes hit Houthi rebels who have been launching missiles in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza .
