<h> European lawmaker claims dual nationals should be allowed to join ' Palestinian armed resistance ' <h> Rima Hassan had previously described the October 7 massacre as " legitimate . " <p> Rima Hassan , the then candidate for the European elections on the list of La France Insoumise ( LFI ) , attends a pro-Palestinian protest in central Paris , France , May 29 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Abdul Saboor ) <p> French European lawmaker Rima Hassan , 32 , stirred condemnations on Wednesday after she posted on X/Twitter that " any Franco-Palestinian must be able to join the Palestinian armed resistance " so long as it is permissible for other French citizens to join the IDF . <p> " If Franco-Israelis are allowed to serve in the Israeli army while enjoying the benefits of dual nationality . Any Franco-Palestinian must be able to join the Palestinian armed resistance whose legitimacy is recognized by the United Nations resolutions relating to the right to self-determination of peoples , " Hassan , a member of the far-left La France Insoumise wrote . " The only thing that prevents you from considering it is the coloniality of the world . " <p> The Representative Council of Jewish Institutions of France ( CRIF ) noted that many groups forming the " Palestinian armed resistance " are recognized as terror groups in France and Europe . <p> " The organizations that claim to be part of the Palestinian ' armed resistance ' -- Hamas , Hezbollah , Islamic Jihad , etc. -- are all recognized as terrorists by the European Union , " CRIF posted on X. " Can you imagine a European MP calling for people to join Al Qaeda or Daesh ISIS ? If Rima Hassan wanted peace and truly defended the Palestinians , she would fight Hamas instead of defending it without taking responsibility . " Hamas terrorist in front of Gaza hostage posters . ( Illustrative ) ( credit : Hamas Military Wing/Handout via REUTERS , MIRIAM ALSTER/FLASH90 ) <p> Since making the post , she has also published claims that " From European antisemitism to the emergence of Zionist supremacist ideology , through the Sykes-Picot agreements , those historically responsible for the tragedy of the Palestinian people and the risk of disappearance they face today are the European countries and they alone . " <p> Hassan 's family are from Syria , according to the Algemeiner . They fled to Europe after the 1948 War of Independence . She became a naturalized citizen in 2010 . <p> Hassan 's statements spread beyond Europe as , according to the Jewish News Syndicate , she appeared at a pro-Hamas rally in Amman in August . Her reported appearance led to some 50 members of the French National Assembly asking the president of the European Parliament to lift her parliamentary immunity .
