<h> The wrong priorities : The absurdity of today 's Israel is on full display - opinion <h> Israel 's future depends on the ability of our leadership in all branches of government to promote broad consensus on fair rules . <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Tel Aviv District Court during his testimony in the trial against him , December 10 , 2024 ( photo credit : FLASH90/CHAIM GOLDBERG ) <p> Rational observers of Israel may be pulling their hair out : What are the country 's leaders , in all three branches of government , busying themselves with at this historic moment ? What is the dominant question in the public and media debate ? <p> The Middle East is indeed being reshaped ; IDF soldiers are fighting -- boots on the ground -- in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria ; for the first time , a realistic opportunity has arisen , one that must not be missed , to eliminate Iran 's nuclear program ; a new administration is about to take office in Washington , which carries both opportunities and risks for Israel ; the society and the economy are groaning under enormous strain ; and most important -- we are still digging graves for those who fell in uniform , and a hundred of our daughters and sons remain in enemy captivity . <p> All of these are , of course , monumental , but nevertheless Israeli leadership pays much more attention to the question of whether the seniority system in appointing the chief justice of the Supreme Court should be maintained . This is complete madness and unparalleled irresponsibility . <p> And to add to this absurdity , the prime minister , the most central figure in shaping Israels future at this historic juncture , is required to appear three days a week in the basement of the Tel Aviv District Court to defend his innocence . Even in times of calm , it is said that the Israeli prime minister 's desk is busier than any other , and all the more so now , when the instability across the entire region requires undivided attention . There can be no doubt : we have lost our faculty of judgment.Ultra-Orthodox Jews protest Israeli military draft orders , in Bnei Brak , November 17 , 2024 ( credit : REUTERS/THOMAS PETER ) <p> AND AS in a Greek tragedy , the shrill drone of a refusenik chorus is heard from upstage : a former attorney-general who recommends that IDF reservists refuse to volunteer to serve if the judicial reform is relaunched ; a former chief rabbi who calls on the ultra-Orthodox , one-eighth of the population , to refuse to enlist , advocating noncompliance with the Compulsory Service Law ; a sitting minister of justice and members of Knesset who publicly air the possibility of refusing to yield to a High Court ruling . One Israeli cabinet minister has declared , with fanatical audacity , that he has not ruled out " regime change . " <p> These individuals are subverting the very ability to maintain the rule of law here , which is the only basis that keeps us from " swallowing each other alive . " <p> Amazingly , Israel has been successful on seven external fronts against its enemies , but it is dangerously close to losing on the eighth : the internal front against itself . The price of losing the internal war is structural and can not be easily reversed : state institutions are undermining public trust in state institutions . The current government majority is exploiting the democratic system in order to erode its foundations . <p> And the main point : social solidarity -- in a time of war -- is cracking more and more . It seems that the immune system of the Israeli body politic is attacking itself . <h> Responsibility lies with those in power <p> THE MAIN responsibility for the situation lies with those in power : the prime minister and the entire governing coalition . They are determined to relaunch the judicial reform . The colossal damage caused by their attempt in 2023 has taught them nothing , and the folly of attempting to change the rules of the game unilaterally , without broad consensus , has returned to center stage . But others in high office are also participating in the tragedy : is it right to dig our heels in and insist on every single issue ? <p> For example , in the case of the attorney-general -- what would we have to lose if the state were to agree to conduct a criminal mediation process in the Netanyahu cases for a limited period of time so that a plea agreement might be reached by the court ? This would immediately free the prime minister from having to give testimony and allow him to focus on fulfilling his role at this especially critical moment in time . Perhaps , if the mediation were to succeed and put a just end to the saga , it would be possible to heal an open wound that has been festering for years . <p> At the same time , in the case of the Judicial Appointments Committee -- would the appointment of one judge who advocates the positions supported by a significant group of the ideologically conservative right cause irreparable harm to the Supreme Court ? I am acquainted with one of the justice minister 's two candidates . His views do indeed differ from some on the current bench , but he is completely committed to the system itself and could represent another voice in the judicial orchestra -- which , while not necessarily harmonious , would be valuable . <p> The bitter truth is that although the multi-front struggle is the result of genuine , patriotic anxiety on both sides regarding our shared future , the generals of the different camps lack intellectual flexibility and expansive vision . Each is entrenched in their own " Masada , " eyes shut to the overall good , which by definition requires compromise . <p> As noted , I do not believe there is an equivalence of responsibility here : the government is more responsible than any other party , because it holds the power and is obliged to wield it in a way becoming to statesmen . The fact that the coalition , which vaingloriously embraces the " conservative " label , is attempting to change the rules of the game is ironic in the worst sense of the word . All the polls show that public trust in the government is exceedingly low , and it certainly does not enjoy the support of the majority of Israelis . <p> A CEASEFIRE is needed on the eighth front , without which victory on the other seven fronts may prove pyrrhic . A ceasefire does not mean the dispute has been settled , but rather is a call for its removal from the nation 's immediate agenda . The debate must continue , but it must be conducted with the sincere intention of reaching an equitable balance of power between the branches of government , not by exploiting a political moment when one of the parties has the upper hand . <p> The parties to the dispute must understand that a decisive victory for one of them is a loss for all of us . A unilateral victory is not a state of equilibrium in Israel , because each of the camps is too large to agree to surrender . The losing side will regroup for another round in the struggle . Thus , for example , if the justice minister manages to pass some of the proposed changes in the Knesset , it is very likely that after the next elections those changes will be repealed by a new coalition . And along the way -- we all lose . Not just the losers in the current round , but also the winners , who will lose in the next round . <p> " Compromise " is seen as a waiver of principles and an expression of ideological weakness . This is a grave mistake : compromise is the life blood of those who seek the good of the State of Israel , given the deep social divides within it . In compromise , no one comes out with all their desires fulfilled , but no one is defeated in a way that triggers extreme moves that could be destructive . <p> Those who have not yet understood this should take an unblinking look at where we are right now : a public sphere that is operating with a centrifugal force that has destructive consequences . The great Israeli poet Yehuda Amichai stressed this when he looked into the depths of the public psyche and determined that " from the place where we are right , flowers will never grow in the spring . " <p> The rules of the game for managing the Israeli dispute are unstable . A simple majority can -- and is currently trying to -- change them unilaterally . Israel 's future depends on the ability of our leadership , in all branches of government , to promote broad consensus on fair rules to be anchored in a " thin constitution , " which can not be changed with a simple majority . A " thin constitution " is the necessary antidote for this crisis . Until it is enacted -- and in times of war -- a ceasefire is required . Only then will flowers grow here in the spring . <p> The writer is president of the Jewish People Policy Institute and a professor ( emeritus ) of law at Bar-Ilan University .
