<h> US civil rights probe faults Philadelphia school district over handling of antisemitism reports <h> Federal education officials say the Philadelphia school district failed to show it protected Jewish students from harassment despite " repeated , extensive notice " that students , teachers and administrators were engaging in antisemitic behavior <p> The Philadelphia school district failed to show it protected Jewish students from harassment despite " repeated , extensive notice " that students , teachers and administrators were engaging in antisemitic behavior , the U.S. Department of Education has concluded after a federal civil rights investigation . <p> Philadelphia school administrators did not adequately address allegations that students were performing Nazi salutes , drawing swastikas on school property and uttering slurs and threats against Jewish students -- in some cases neglecting to even document the incidents , the Education Department 's Office for Civil Rights found . Federal investigators also cited complaints about allegedly antisemitic social media posts by a school board member , an assistant superintendent and four teachers . <p> The Philadelphia district , among the largest public school systems in the U.S. , did not evaluate whether a hostile environment existed in its schools , and did not demonstrate that it took steps to " eliminate any such hostile environment and prevent its recurrence , " the civil rights office said in a Dec. 18 letter to the district 's lawyers . <p> The letter noted that Philadelphia officials have agreed to take various steps to resolve the case . The agreement includes annual training for administrators , faculty and staff ; age-appropriate anti-harassment programming for students ; better documentation of complaints ; and an anti-harassment statement . <p> " The Philadelphia School District has committed to taking essential steps to redress any hostile environment in its schools so that Jewish students , like all students , can learn in an environment free from discriminatory harassment , " Catherine E. Lhamon , assistant secretary for civil rights , said in a statement . <p> The Anti-Defamation League , a prominent Jewish advocacy group , was among several Jewish groups to file complaints against the district earlier this year . The Education Department opened an investigation to determine whether district officials appropriately responded to the alleged harassment as required under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , which prohibits discrimination based on shared ancestry . <p> ADL said it hopes the agreement between the Education Department and the school district will help prevent additional harassment and targeting of Jewish students . <p> " We are grateful for the Jewish students and parents who had the courage to speak out against the pattern of antisemitic harassment , abuse and bullying they were experiencing , " said Jonathan Greenblatt , ADL 's chief executive officer . <p> ADL has filed similar complaints against other school districts , including Berkeley and Santa Ana in California . <p> The Philadelphia district said it " takes all complaints of bullying , harassment , and discrimination seriously , including allegations of antisemitism and Islamophobia . " The district also said it 's committed to " continue efforts to create welcoming and inclusive environments that allow our students to feel safe and heard . " <p> Federal investigators said they were concerned that district staff had retaliated against parents who filed complaints . In one such incident , a teacher identified the complainant by name on her Instagram account and wrote she was " taking the gloves off , " adding : " Zionism is Racism , " the civil rights office said in its letter . Another teacher reposted the first teacher 's post and wrote : " These are some disgusting , cowardly , genocide supporting fools . They thought they could hide . " <p> Andrew Goretsky , the director of ADL 's Philadelphia office , said ADL believes that antisemitic harassment , assault and vandalism are underreported because of fears of retaliation . <p> Colleges , universities and high schools nationwide saw a wave of pro-Palestinian student protests in response to Israel 's war against Hamas in Gaza . The war began when Hamas attacked Israel in October 2023 , taking hostages and killing 1,200 people , mostly civilians . More than 45,000 Palestinians have been killed in 14 months of war , according to Gaza 's health ministry , which does not distinguish between civilians and combatants . <p> A congressional hearing earlier this year spotlighted antisemitism in K-12 education , with the leaders of New York City Public Schools , the Montgomery County Public Schools in Maryland , and the Berkeley Unified School District in California all vigorously denying they had failed to address hostility toward Jewish people . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed without permission . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
