<h> ' For 2025 to become a year of victory for Ukraine and Israel , democracies must unite , ' says Borys Lozhkin , President of the JCU . <p> By OLEKSANDR YEVSIUKOV DECEMBER 19 , 2024 10:42 <p> THE DROBYTSKYI Yar Memorial to the victims of the Holocaust , on the outskirts of Kharkiv , was destroyed by Russian shelling in March 2022 . On the right : The restoration plan. ( photo credit : Kharkiv Regional Military Administration ) <p> Russia 's full-scale war against Ukraine has been going on for almost three years . Its destructive impact has been felt by all Ukrainians -- Jews and non-Jews alike . How much longer the largest war in Europe in the last 80 years will continue was discussed at the 5th Kyiv Jewish Forum , which recently took place in Washington . <p> The Jerusalem Post was a partner of the Jewish Confederation of Ukraine in organizing this international summit.We asked Borys Lozhkin , president of the JCU , vice president of the World Jewish Congress and the European Jewish Congress , to share his impressions of what he heard at the forum and to sum up the outgoing year for the Jewish community of Ukraine.UKRAINIAN SOLDIER on the front line with a book from the Jewish Library , ' Mossad . The Most Outstanding Operations of Israeli Intelligence . ' ( Credit : Yuriy Lutsenko/Facebook ) <p> What is the mood of Ukrainian Jews as 2024 comes to a close , and what do they expect in 2025 ? The mood is the same as with all Ukrainians : to stand firm . It is easy for Israelis to imagine the situation Ukrainians are in , since Israel has been in a state of war for almost 76 years since its independence . <p> However , for representatives of other countries , unless they are from the former Soviet bloc , it is not as easy to understand against whom Ukraine is defending itself . We are in Europe , and Israelis are in the Middle East.Today , we are confronting a threat that the world has not faced since World War II , and we must win . <p> Ukrainians and Israelis have no other option . As Golda Meir said : " Our enemies want to destroy us , and we want to live . This does not leave much room for compromise . " This statement applies to the situation in both Ukraine and Israel . <p> You mentioned Golda Meir . She was born in Kyiv , was n't she ? She was . Meir is not the only person born in Ukraine who made a significant contribution to the formation and development of Israel . But her example is perhaps one of the most eloquent . In January of this year , the JCU organized the distribution of the Ukrainian version of the film Golda about Israel 's fourth prime minister . <p> In addition , we also published Golda Meir 's memoirs , My Life , in Ukrainian for the first time.They were published as part of the Jewish Library book series created by the JCU . For this series , we select works about Jews and Israel that have become worldwide bestsellers but have not previously been published in Ukrainian . The Jewish Library is publishing these Ukrainian translations for the first time . <p> In 2021 , the series was launched with Daniel Gordis 's book Israel : A Concise History of a Nation Reborn . To date , five books have already been published in the Jewish Library . They are in great demand in Ukraine . Ukrainians want to know more about the history and culture of the Jews , with whom they have lived for more than a thousand years . <p> One of the books in the series , Mossad : The Greatest Missions of the Israeli Secret Service , by Michael Bar-Zohar and Nissim Mishal , has been a bestseller on the Ukrainian book market for two consecutive years . This year , we have released a sequel , The Mossad Amazons -- The Amazing Women in the Israeli Secret Service ; Rise and Kill First , by Ronen Bergman , which will also be published very soon . <p> Next , Natan Sharansky 's autobiographical story of the fight against the Soviet regime , Fear No Evil , will be published . Although the famous Soviet dissident and major Israeli political figure wrote it in the late 1980s , it has never been published in Ukrainian . The Jewish Library will be the first to do it . There will be other books , too . <p> I am confident that increasing awareness among Ukrainians about Jews and Israel will help reduce antisemitism . In Ukraine , fortunately , it the incidence of antisemitism is already among the lowest in Europe . Let 's return to the Kyiv Jewish Forum . <p> For the second year in a row , the menorah destroyed by the Russians became the central element of the forum . Tell us more about it . The mutilated menorah , in my opinion , is one of the symbols of this war . The monument is located in Drobitsky Yar on the outskirts of my native Kharkiv . <p> In this ravine , in late 1941 and 1942 , the Nazis shot 20,000 Jews -- prisoners of the Kharkiv Ghetto . After Babi Yar , Drobitsky is the second-largest execution site of Jews in Ukraine . The construction of the memorial was supervised by Righteous Among the Nations member Stanislav Ishchenko . <p> Together with his father , Joseph , he saved more than 300 Jews during the Holocaust . Stanislav died shortly before the start of the full-scale Russian invasion and did not see what the Russians did to his menorah in March 2022 . He also did not hear the absurd accusations against Ukrainians of Nazism . <p> It was not the Ukrainians who shelled the burial site of tens of thousands of Holocaust victims . It was not Ukrainians who killed Boris Romanchenko , a prisoner of Nazi concentration camps , in Kharkiv . Vanda Obiedkova from Mariupol survived the Holocaust 80 years ago . <p> But in 2022 , she died in the basement of a destroyed house from hunger and cold , trying to escape from Russian shells and missiles . A member of the Kharkiv Hillel , Seraphim Sabaransky died defending his city from the Russians.In August of 2022 , the brother of my close Jewish friend died near Bakhmut . <p> The son of the chief rabbi of Ukraine , Moshe Reuven Azman , who died at the front , was recently buried . Igor Tish , a former pupil of the Kyiv Jewish school and an IDF reservist , was seriously wounded . Unfortunately , there are numerous such examples . <p> Thousands of Jews , including Israeli citizens , are fighting in the ranks of the Armed Forces of Ukraine . Jews are dying at the front and in the rear . Therefore , talking about the de-Nazification of Ukrainians , as Russian propaganda presents it , is simply absurd . <p> Jews are not killed by Ukrainians . Ukrainian Jews are part of the Ukrainian political nation . And they , like all Ukrainians , have a single goal , which I have already mentioned : to win in order to continue living together in a peaceful Ukraine . <p> We will definitely restore the Drobitsky Yar menorah . But at the same time , we will preserve the traces of its mutilation as a reminder of this war . This will be a memorial dedicated to two tragedies : the Holocaust of World War II and the Russian invasion of the 21st century . The Jewish Confederation of Ukraine , together with the Kharkiv City Hall , has already selected the project for its future restoration . <p> Can 2025 bring peace ? It is not only up to the Ukrainians . In 2022 , few in the world believed that Ukraine would last more than three days . The third year of the most active phase of the war is ending . But I want to remind you that the Russian-Ukrainian war has been going on for almost 11 years . I would like to see a complete end to the war in 2025 . What it will look like depends largely on the partners . <p> Do you mean the US ? The outcome rests on other partners as well , but primarily it depends on the US . Both Ukraine and Israel rely on American support . That is why we held the Kyiv Jewish Forum in Washington immediately after the presidential and congressional elections . <p> The position of President-elect Donald Trump will largely determine further relations in the US , Ukraine , and Israel and , more broadly , in the United States , Europe , and the Middle East . This influence is already being felt , although there are several weeks before the inauguration . <p> The speakers and guests of the forum were considering possible scenarios for the further development of our conflicts . Physically , they may seem local , but in fact they are global in nature . The Israelis hope for the continuation of the Abraham Accords and the neutralization of the Iranian threat , including proxy formations . <p> The Ukrainians also are counting on decisive actions by the United States , which will allow the war to end on terms favorable to Ukraine . We will find out how it will be in practice after January 20 . <p> Another topic that the Kyiv Jewish Forum touched on was the sharply increased level of antisemitism . How did it happen that after Oct. 7 , Ukraine turned out to be almost the only country in Europe where there were no anti-Israeli and antisemitic demonstrations ? The answer here also lies in our wars . The Hamas attack on Israel reminded Ukrainians of the morning of February 24 , 2022 , when the entire country woke up to rocket fire , and columns of Russian troops crossed the border . The massacre in Re'im and other kibbutzim near Gaza reminded us of the tragedies of Bucha and Mariupol . <p> Ukrainians simply could not take the position of terrorists . Therefore , 69% supported Israel , and only 1% were against . What began to happen on university campuses in the US and Europe after Oct. 7 and eventually resulted in a pogrom in Amsterdam bypassed Ukraine . <p> Today , the wars in Ukraine and Israel are between the forces of democracy and those of tyranny . Most of the speakers at the Kyiv Jewish Forum emphasized this . I completely agree . In order to prevent the world from returning to times when order was established by brute force , Ukrainians and Israelis need help , and it has to be timely and sufficient to achieve two convincing victories . Hopefully , in 2025 we will be able to say with relief that the danger is already behind us . <p> This article was written in cooperation with the Jewish Confederation of Ukraine .
