<h> A status-quo situation allowed for the October 7 attack to take place . It 's time for us all to put on our thinking caps and discuss how we can move forward from here . <p> It 's time for us all to put on our thinking caps and discuss how to solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict - If not to achieve peace , at least for us to live here securely. ( photo credit : The Jerusalem Post archives ) <p> It 's time for us to have an honest discussion about a three-word phrase that has become a bit of a cliche : The day after . <p> We are , at least according to leaders of Israel , the US and the negotiating countries , " closer than ever " to an initial hostage deal . There is a ceasefire in Lebanon . Hamas is close to being destroyed in Gaza . Even the brutal Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad has crumbled . <p> But what now ? How do we move forward ? How do we restore the faith of Israelis in their country 's institutions ? And probably most importantly : What do we do about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict ? <p> The two-state solution has been the most known or internationally supported solution for our conflict with the Palestinians . But Israelis do n't support such a solution anymore . <p> Many who advocated for a two-state solution have mixed feelings post-October 7 . For example , the Knesset delivered a decisive message in February , overwhelmingly rejecting the unilateral recognition of Palestinian statehood . With 99 votes out of 120 , this was no mere routine decision but a bold affirmation that extended far beyond the coalition of a government proclamation issued earlier that week . PRIME MINISTER Benjamin Netanyahu attends the ceremony for the 70th cohort of military combat officers , near Mitzpe Ramon , in October . Netanyahu 's performance supports Churchill 's observation that one should never worry about action , but only inaction , the writer says . ( credit : AMIR COHEN/REUTERS ) <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , switching seamlessly between Hebrew and English , did n't miss the opportunity to emphasize its significance : " The people of Israel and their elected representatives are united today as never before . " <p> Support for a two-state solution among Israelis is eroding , as reflected in a Pew Research Center survey published in September 2023 -- a month before October 7 . The numbers tell a stark story : just 35% of Israelis believed peaceful coexistence with an independent Palestinian state is possible -- a steep decline from 50% a decade before . <p> Among Arab Israelis , optimism has dropped by a staggering 33 points since 2013 , while Jewish Israelis have seen a 14-point decline . <p> After October 7 , and in the middle of the longest war Israel has ever had , a survey conducted by the Jerusalem Center for Foreign Affairs ( JCFA ) in June painted a telling picture of where Israelis stood on the idea of a Palestinian state within the framework of normalization with Saudi Arabia . The survey headline was clear : 64% of Israelis opposed it . <p> The numbers were n't surprising but remained jarring . On the Right , opposition was overwhelming at 84% . Centrists were more divided , with 54% against , while just 24% of left-wing voters rejected the idea . <h> Unsuccessful old ideas <p> THE PROBLEM is that the Western World still holds by a two-state solution , and Israeli leaders have n't yet succeeded in finding an alternative solution that is either practical or at least has public support . <p> A two-state solution , as described by pre-1967 borders , has for many decades been the centerpiece of international peacemaking . Ranging from the United Nations to the European Union , it is saluted regularly as the best route out of the Israeli-Palestinian impasse : Israel keeps its security , and the Palestinians get a state of their own , with their capital is East Jerusalem . Even the United States , while inconsistent in its actions , continues to endorse the concept rhetorically . <p> The Arab League 's 2002 peace initiative took it a step further , offering Israel full normalization with the Arab world in exchange for returning to those contentious borders . Within Israel , movements like Peace Now and what remains of the political Left once championed this vision , though their influence has waned in recent years . Across the ocean , organizations like J Street and Americans for Peace Now still carry the torch , insisting that freezing settlement expansion is essential to any real dialogue . <p> Academic think tanks such as the International Crisis Group and even some interfaith leaders have floated innovative approaches to these unique challenges . However , these ideas often stay in the brainstorming sessions , rejected by leaders of different persuasions unwilling to give an inch on their entrenched positions . <p> There is also the broader vision of regional cooperation with a two-state solution anchored within a wider framework . Egypt and Jordan , at various points , have indicated a willingness to help make it work if Israel shows flexibility . Different US administrations have flirted with wrapping the two-state formula into a broader regional approach in the hope of selling skeptical Arab states on the idea . <p> RIGHT-WING Israeli politicians and commentators have been recommending annexing the West Bank , an area giving Israeli citizenship to its Palestinians . Their goal was straightforward : Allow Israel to continue as a Jewish state . Proposals going this way , for the most part , exclude Gaza because it has such a hostile and enormous population ; likewise , it was then assumed it could self-govern . <p> Senior politicians like former defense minister Moshe Arens , former president Reuven Rivlin , and Uri Ariel have publicly demonstrated opposition to the division of the West Bank ( Judea and Samaria ) and instead supported a one-state solution . <p> Ambassador to the UK Tzipi Hotovely , who was then an MK , referred to the West Bank as a part of Israel 's historic homeland . Former Prime Minister Naftali Bennett supported Zone C 's annexation , comprising 60% of the West Bank that is under the control of Israel . Journalist and former Jerusalem Post columnist Caroline Glick questioned the population figures concerning Palestinians , saying they were inflated and that annexation would add just 1.4 million Palestinians to Israel 's population . Glick , however , favors a one-state solution based on Jewish majority rule but with the preservation of democratic values and protection of minority rights . <p> David Friedman , former US ambassador to Israel , has introduced a bold new plan for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , titled The Future of Judea &amp; Samaria . Speaking at a convention in Nashville earlier this year , Friedman dismissed the two-state solution as unrealistic and dangerous , particularly after Hamas 's violent October 7 attack . " A Palestinian state is an existential threat to Israel , " he said , adding that " Israel has no margin for error . " <p> Friedman 's plan outlines a different path forward : Israel would maintain sovereignty over Judea , Samaria , and the Jordan Valley , with complete security control to ensure its safety . Palestinians would be free to govern their daily lives within their communities , with significant development funding from Gulf nations . In addition , the US , Israel , and Abraham Accord countries would work together to expand regional peace and stability . Prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO head Yasser Arafat sign Oslo 2 maps in the White House on September 28 , 1995 , as Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak , US president Bill Clinton , and Jordan 's King Hussein watch . ( credit : Avi Ohayon/GPO ) <p> THE ISRAELI-Palestinian conflict has no shortage of proposed solutions , but each comes with its own complexities . Another suggestion is the confederation solution : A confederation between two independent states , namely Israel and Palestine . Such a model would mean close cooperation between the two states regarding security , economy , and shared resources , presumably including open borders and joint institutions . It requires the right balance between giving sovereignty to both states , ensuring they work together properly , and dealing with freedom-of-movement sensitivities . <p> The reality for now is keeping the status quo -- managing the conflict , not resolving it . It aims at stability , with the avoidance of major escalations . But this is far from ideal : it extends the suffering of Palestinians under occupation , nurtures resentment and radicalization on both sides and may lead to violent flare-ups . Meanwhile , ongoing settlement expansion further erodes the chances of a two-state solution . <p> Some of the other ideas that could be considered are those that can contribute toward bringing better prospects for peace , which include stabilizing the Palestinian economy to reduce tensions , and grassroots and dialog-promoting programs to build trust and understanding . But after October 7 , these ideas seem almost like science fiction -- and I have n't even started getting into the possible solutions for Gaza when the war is over . <p> If we are really the ' Start-Up Nation , ' should n't we be able to think of more creative or probable solutions ? <p> I 've decided to go on a journey and publish as many suggestions for solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as possible . A status-quo situation allowed for the October 7 attack to take place . It 's time for us all to put on our thinking caps and discuss how we can move forward from here . If you have any suggested strategies , plans , or solutions , I would love for you to email me at zvika@jpost.com
