<h> My Word : Wide awake in a war <h> Is IDF service suitable for every single young haredi man ? No . But there can no longer be an excuse for mass exemptions . <p> IDF SOLDIERS take part in an army stretcher drill . Israel 's population also needs to carry its share of the burden. ( photo credit : MOSHE SHAI/FLASH90 ) <p> It was a few words but a big concept . Israeli journalist Kalman Liebskind coined more than a phrase last week ; he summed up an existential Israeli condition . <p> Speaking at a conference sponsored by Makor Rishon and Bnei Akiva yeshivot and ulpanot , Liebskind declared that " Israeli society can be divided into those who sleep peacefully and those who ca n't sleep at all . " <p> I gave his words some thought in the early hours of the morning . I 'm in the " ca n't sleep " brigade , the proud but concerned mother of a combat soldier reservist . There are those who count sheep and doze off and those who count the number of days of service -- which even for a reservist stretches into the hundreds -- and it keeps them awake . <p> It was n't the first time Liebskind , a member of the National Religious community , had used the phrase . It appeared in his Maariv column in November , but this time there was a major difference -- Liebskind was n't referring only to the haredi ( ultra-Orthodox ) society , which largely refuses to serve in the army , but to the country 's leading politicians , including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , and influential journalists . National Religious Broadcasters 2022 ( credit : TWITTER SCREENSHOT ) <p> " We have had a tendency , for a long time , to divide Israeli society into different divisions . The most well-known division -- and sometimes the correct one -- is in relation to Prime Minister Netanyahu : yes Bibi or no Bibi . <p> " There are also other divisions , such as Right and Left , religious and secular , and more , " Liebskind said . " What divides Israeli society in the last year and two months is the question of who sleeps at night . There is a group that does not sleep , and a group that sleeps well . Most of our press sleeps well at night because a large majority of our journalists , in general , do not have a son in Lebanon or a son in Jabalya . " <p> Netanyahu , who is obviously often called on to work in the middle of the night , served in an elite unit . In 1976 , he lost his brother Yoni in Operation Entebbe -- one of the most daring hostage rescue operations in history . But , as Liebskind opined , Netanyahu does not stay awake wondering whether his sons are in danger , nor should anyone belittle the sleep problems of parents of soldiers serving in places other than Lebanon and Gaza . <p> Liebskind , whose nephew fell in battle in Gaza and who has many relatives and friends serving in the IDF , made his remarks following a particularly combative press conference ahead of Netanyahu 's taking to the witness stand in the many court cases against him . <p> Seven soldiers had fallen that day , but the focus of media attention returned to the government 's proposed judicial reform . <h> Pre-October 7 draft refusal <p> SHORTLY AFTER Liebskind 's remarks hit public awareness , I was given more food for thought for my sleepless nights . Last Saturday , speaking at an event in Beersheba , former state attorney Moshe Lador invoked a pre-October 7 argument over refusal to serve in the IDF as a response to the judicial reform . <p> He declared : " Pilots who have completed their compulsory service and now serve on a voluntary basis are not only allowed but , in my opinion , are obligated to say , ' If that 's the country you 're striving for and are going to create through force and bullying , and are going to be the dictators of , I wo n't enter the cockpit and fly this plane because I do n't have to . ' " <p> His comments met with condemnation across the broad political spectrum -- from those who sleep and those who do n't . Lador should know better than to drag the IDF back into the political discourse . Pilots and other members of elite forces who declared a strike of the political kind during the turmoil of 2023 must decide whether they 're going to serve -- which means following orders from the government to the IDF -- or not . <p> Lador is not the only former senior figure to try to revive the nightmare chaos that played a role in weakening the country ahead of the October 7 , 2023 , Hamas invasion and mega-atrocity . Former prime minister Ehud Barak has renewed talk of " a civil war . " <p> And former defense minister Moshe ( Bogie ) Ya'alon will stop at nothing to attack Netanyahu 's government , going so far as to claim ( without basis ) that this right-wing government is committing ethnic cleansing in Gaza . He might as well submit a list of the loved ones of the sleep-deprived directly to the international courts in The Hague . <p> It should keep us all awake that these people reached such high positions in the first place . <p> AND AS if we did n't have enough to worry about , the extremism within the haredi sector also raised its head again . At the beginning of the war , I found myself in the midst of a demonstration of zealots from the Peleg Yerushalmi sect , who were blocking a main road in Jerusalem while chanting : " We 'll die and not draft . " My response was admirably restrained , given my lack of sleep and the reason for it . <p> Almost farcically , a recent social media campaign complained that haredim ca n't sleep at night for fear someone will knock on the door and arrest them for draft dodging . Since few haredim use social media , the campaign was obviously aimed at the rest of us . And " insensitive " would be too polite a word to describe it . The phrase " a knock on the door " means only one thing in Israeli society : that an army representative has come to inform a family of the death of a loved one . <p> Earlier this month , former Sephardi chief rabbi Yitzhak Yosef told yeshiva students : " If a draft notice arrives , tear it up . Do you have a toilet at home ? Flush it down . " Apparently , that 's not the lowest he can go . Last week , Yosef , a spiritual leader of the Shas party , said , " Even if one is idle i.e. , not studying Torah , he is forbidden to join the army . " <p> Shas founder Arye Deri spoke of relatives " who went into the army wearing a kippah and came out not wearing a kippah . " Public consultant Binyamin Lachkar posted on X in response : " Dear Arye , there are those who go in the army and do n't come back at all . " He correctly pointed out that if the haredi leadership does n't trust its students to remain religious , the problem lies in their education , not the army . <p> The IDF has gone to great lengths to prepare a framework for Orthodox and ultra-Orthodox soldiers . I know of one soldier who went in with a kippah and beard and came out with impressively long sidelocks . <p> Is IDF service suitable for every single young haredi man ? No . But there can no longer be an excuse for mass exemptions . As Liebskind wrote in November : " Imagine a burning apartment building where one neighbor brings a fire extinguisher , another runs with a bucket , a third sprays water with a hose , but the neighbor in apartment 13 on the fourth floor just sits and explains why he ca n't help . Is that a neighbor anyone would want to have ? " <p> I am in favor of everyone , including ultra-Orthodox and Arab citizens , doing some kind of national service . Those who ca n't serve in the IDF should serve in a civil framework , but more than 800 soldiers have fallen since October 7 , 2023 , and some 12,000 have been wounded in combat . We need reinforcements . Prayers need to be backed up by active service . <p> My colleague Herb Keinon -- who has had his unfair share of sleepless nights -- made an eloquent plea for unity this week . <p> " ... it 's as if the war were over , the hostages were all home , Iran was no longer a threat , all the Israelis displaced from their communities were back in their homes , the economy was humming along , and Israel did not have to refurbish its standing in the international community , " Keinon wrote . <p> " What Israel needs is a compromise , and finding one -- finding a way to appoint a chief justice for the Supreme Court and three new Supreme Court judges -- should not be beyond the capacity of a nation that dismantled the Syrian military in 48 hours and incapacitated much of Hezbollah with exploding beepers and walkie-talkies in two days . " <p> The country needs to pull itself together . Reject the polarization and politicization . To use the phrase popular before the sleep analogy caught on , people from all sectors need " to get under the stretcher " -- lehikanes mitachat la'alunka -- and carry their share of the burden as in a military stretcher drill . <p> Then we can all have a good night 's sleep and help turn sweet dreams into reality .
