<h> Share <p> Copy Link <p> copyShortcut to copy Link copied ! <p> Updated : 4:21 PM CST Dec 20 , 2024 <p> Well , not *** lot of detail was provided about the specifics of the call between Netanyahu and Trump . But there 's enough there that we can kind of read between the lines and understand the critical timing of that conversation and what it tells us about the kind of broader pattern here we know that the Israeli Prime Minister spoke with President Elect Trump about the ongoing negotiations to try and reach *** cease fire and hostage deal . The Israeli Prime Minister himself has said that they spoke about the need to complete Israel 's victory but also about the need to free the hostages . And so you can hear in that certainly that the Israeli Prime Minister is trying to make the case for both getting to *** deal , but also perhaps not the war in Gaza altogether until Hamas is completely defeated as he continues to kind of pursue this total victory that he has promised the Israeli public since October 7th of last year . What we also know though is that the Biden administration and the incoming Trump administration have been really working quite closely together to try and see if *** deal is achievable and not necessarily that that deal would have to wait until President elect Trump takes the oath of office on January 20th . Rather , when we saw the national security adviser , Jake Sullivan here in Tel Aviv last week , he talked about his hope that through his travels in Israel , but then subsequently to Cairo and to Doha that he could put in place what would be needed to get *** deal by the end of the month . And so that seems to be what all of the parties are racing towards is to see whether or not in the coming weeks , if *** deal can indeed be put together . We heard the Israeli Defense Minister today say in *** , as he was testifying before the Foreign Affairs Committee of the knesset , the Israeli Parliament , that *** deal is quote closer than ever . We have of course heard such such optimistic pronouncements from other officials in the past and Jake Sullivan was very cautious on Friday to say , you know , I 've been optimistic before . We thought we were close before and we did not get there . So they do n't wan na uh say that *** deal is done until it actually is , but certainly there is cause for optimism and uh the the parties seem to be narrowing uh the gaps , how soon they can actually do that and whether they can get it over the finish line is anyone 's guess at this point . <h> Share <p> Leaving Israel is easier , Shira Z. Carmel thinks , by saying it 's just for now . But she knows better.For the Israeli-born singer and an increasing number of relatively well-off Israelis , the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack shattered any sense of safety and along with it , Israel 's founding promise : to be the world 's safe haven for Jews . That day , thousands of Hamas militants blew past the country 's border defenses , killed 1,200 Israelis and dragged 250 more into Gaza in a siege that caught the Israeli army by surprise and stunned a nation that prides itself on military prowess . This time , during what became known as Israel 's 9/11 , the army did n't come for hours.Ten days later , a pregnant Carmel , her husband and their toddler boarded a flight to Australia , which was looking for people in her husband 's profession . And they spun the explanation to friends and family as something other than permanent -- " relocation " is the easier-to-swallow term -- acutely aware of the familial strain and the shame that have shadowed Israelis who leave for good . " We told them we 're going to get out of the line of fire for awhile , " Carmel said more than a year later from her family 's new home in Melbourne . " It was n't a hard decision . But it was very hard to talk to them about it . It was even hard to admit it to ourselves . " Thousands of Israelis have left the country since Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to government statistics and immigration tallies released by destination countries such as Canada and Germany . There 's concern about whether it will drive a " brain drain " in sectors like medicine and tech . Migration experts say it 's possible people leaving Israel will surpass the number of immigrants to Israel in 2024 , according to Sergio DellaPergola , a statistician and professor emeritus of Hebrew University in Jerusalem.Thousands of Israelis have opted to pay the financial , emotional and social costs of moving out since the Oct. 7 attack , according to government statistics and families who spoke to The Associated Press in recent months after emigrating to Canada , Spain and Australia.Israel 's population continues to grow toward 10 million people . But it 's possible that 2024 ends with more Israelis leaving the country than coming in . That 's even as Israel and Hezbollah reached a fragile ceasefire along the border with Lebanon and Israel and Hamas inch toward a pause in Gaza.Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics estimated in September that 40,600 Israelis departed long-term over the first seven months of 2024 , a 59% increase over the same period a year earlier , when 25,500 people left . Monthly , 2,200 more people departed this year than in 2023 , CBS reported.The Israeli Ministry of Immigration and Absorption , which does not deal with people leaving , said more than 33,000 people have moved to Israel since the start of the war , about on par with previous years . The interior minister refused to comment for this story , a spokesperson said.Other clues , too , point to a notable departure of Israelis since the Oct. 7 attacks . Gil Fire , deputy director of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center , said that some of its star specialists with fellowship postings of a few years in other countries began to waver about returning . " Before the war , they always came back and it was not really considered an option to stay . And during the war we started to see a change , " he said . " They said to us , ' We will stay another year , maybe two years , maybe more . ' " Fire says it 's " an issue of concern " enough for him to plan in-person visits with these doctors to try to draw them back to Israel.Michal Harel , who moved with her husband to Toronto in 2019 , said that almost immediately after the attacks the phone began ringing -- with other Israelis seeking advice about moving to Canada . On Nov. 23 , 2023 , the couple set up a website to help Israelis navigate moving , which can cost at least 100,000 Israeli shekels , or about $28,000 , Harel and other Israeli relocation experts said.Not everyone in Israel can just pack up and move overseas . Many of those who have made the move have foreign passports , jobs at multinational corporations or can work remotely . People in Gaza , where local health officials say more than 45,000 people have been killed , have even less choice . Harel reported that the site has received views from 100,000 unique visitors and 5,000 direct contacts in 2024 alone.Aliya -- the Hebrew term for immigration , literally the " ascent " of Jews into Israel -- has always been part of the country 's plan . But " yerida " -- the term used for leaving the country , literally the " descent " of Jews from Israel to the diaspora , emphatically has not.A sacred trust and a social contract took root in Israeli society . The terms go -- or went -- like this : Israeli citizens would serve in the military and pay high taxes . In exchange , the army would keep them safe . Meanwhile , it 's every Jew 's obligation to stay , work and fight for Israel 's survival . " Emigration was a threat , especially in the early years ( when ) there were problems of nation-building , " said Ori Yehudai , a professor of Israel studies at Ohio State University and the author of " Leaving Zion , " a history of Israeli emigration . " People still feel they have to justify their decision to move . " Shira Carmel says she has no doubt about her decision . She 'd long objected to Netanyahu 's government 's efforts to overhaul the legal system , and was one of the first women to don the blood-red " Handmaid 's Tale " robes that became a fixture of the the anti-government protests of 2023 . She was terrified as a new mom , and a pregnant one , during the Hamas attack . This was not the life she wanted.Meanwhile , Australia beckoned . Carmel 's brother had lived there for two decades . The couple had the equivalent of a green card due to Carmel 's husband 's profession . Basic logic , she says , pointed toward moving . They were able to catch a free flight out on seven hours ' notice.And yet.Carmel recalls the frenzied hours before the flight out in which she said to her husband in the privacy of their bedroom : " My God , are we really doing this ? " They decided not to decide . They packed lightly . But weeks in Australia became months , and the couple decided to have the baby there . They told their families back in Israel that they were staying " for now . " " We do n't define it as ' forever , ' " Carmel said on Tuesday . " But we are for sure staying for the foreseeable future . " <p> For the Israeli-born singer and an increasing number of relatively well-off Israelis , the Oct. 7 , 2023 , Hamas attack shattered any sense of safety and along with it , Israel 's founding promise : to be the world 's safe haven for Jews . That day , thousands of Hamas militants blew past the country 's border defenses , killed 1,200 Israelis and dragged 250 more into Gaza in a siege that caught the Israeli army by surprise and stunned a nation that prides itself on military prowess . This time , during what became known as Israel 's 9/11 , the army did n't come for hours . <p> Advertisement <p> Ten days later , a pregnant Carmel , her husband and their toddler boarded a flight to Australia , which was looking for people in her husband 's profession . And they spun the explanation to friends and family as something other than permanent -- " relocation " is the easier-to-swallow term -- acutely aware of the familial strain and the shame that have shadowed Israelis who leave for good . <p> " We told them we 're going to get out of the line of fire for awhile , " Carmel said more than a year later from her family 's new home in Melbourne . " It was n't a hard decision . But it was very hard to talk to them about it . It was even hard to admit it to ourselves . " <p> Thousands of Israelis have left the country since Oct. 7 , 2023 , according to government statistics and immigration tallies released by destination countries such as Canada and Germany . There 's concern about whether it will drive a " brain drain " in sectors like medicine and tech . Migration experts say it 's possible people leaving Israel will surpass the number of immigrants to Israel in 2024 , according to Sergio DellaPergola , a statistician and professor emeritus of Hebrew University in Jerusalem . <p> Thousands of Israelis have opted to pay the financial , emotional and social costs of moving out since the Oct. 7 attack , according to government statistics and families who spoke to The Associated Press in recent months after emigrating to Canada , Spain and Australia . <p> Israel 's Central Bureau of Statistics estimated in September that 40,600 Israelis departed long-term over the first seven months of 2024 , a 59% increase over the same period a year earlier , when 25,500 people left . Monthly , 2,200 more people departed this year than in 2023 , CBS reported . <p> The Israeli Ministry of Immigration and Absorption , which does not deal with people leaving , said more than 33,000 people have moved to Israel since the start of the war , about on par with previous years . The interior minister refused to comment for this story , a spokesperson said . <p> Other clues , too , point to a notable departure of Israelis since the Oct. 7 attacks . Gil Fire , deputy director of Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center , said that some of its star specialists with fellowship postings of a few years in other countries began to waver about returning . <p> " Before the war , they always came back and it was not really considered an option to stay . And during the war we started to see a change , " he said . " They said to us , ' We will stay another year , maybe two years , maybe more . ' " <p> Fire says it 's " an issue of concern " enough for him to plan in-person visits with these doctors to try to draw them back to Israel . <p> Michal Harel , who moved with her husband to Toronto in 2019 , said that almost immediately after the attacks the phone began ringing -- with other Israelis seeking advice about moving to Canada . On Nov. 23 , 2023 , the couple set up a website to help Israelis navigate moving , which can cost at least 100,000 Israeli shekels , or about $28,000 , Harel and other Israeli relocation experts said . <p> Not everyone in Israel can just pack up and move overseas . Many of those who have made the move have foreign passports , jobs at multinational corporations or can work remotely . People in Gaza , where local health officials say more than 45,000 people have been killed , have even less choice . Harel reported that the site has received views from 100,000 unique visitors and 5,000 direct contacts in 2024 alone . <p> Aliya -- the Hebrew term for immigration , literally the " ascent " of Jews into Israel -- has always been part of the country 's plan . But " yerida " -- the term used for leaving the country , literally the " descent " of Jews from Israel to the diaspora , emphatically has not . <p> A sacred trust and a social contract took root in Israeli society . The terms go -- or went -- like this : Israeli citizens would serve in the military and pay high taxes . In exchange , the army would keep them safe . Meanwhile , it 's every Jew 's obligation to stay , work and fight for Israel 's survival . <p> " Emigration was a threat , especially in the early years ( when ) there were problems of nation-building , " said Ori Yehudai , a professor of Israel studies at Ohio State University and the author of " Leaving Zion , " a history of Israeli emigration . " People still feel they have to justify their decision to move . " <p> Shira Carmel says she has no doubt about her decision . She 'd long objected to Netanyahu 's government 's efforts to overhaul the legal system , and was one of the first women to don the blood-red " Handmaid 's Tale " robes that became a fixture of the the anti-government protests of 2023 . She was terrified as a new mom , and a pregnant one , during the Hamas attack . This was not the life she wanted . <p> Meanwhile , Australia beckoned . Carmel 's brother had lived there for two decades . The couple had the equivalent of a green card due to Carmel 's husband 's profession . Basic logic , she says , pointed toward moving . They were able to catch a free flight out on seven hours ' notice . <p> And yet . <p> Carmel recalls the frenzied hours before the flight out in which she said to her husband in the privacy of their bedroom : " My God , are we really doing this ? " <p> They decided not to decide . They packed lightly . But weeks in Australia became months , and the couple decided to have the baby there . They told their families back in Israel that they were staying " for now . " <p> " We do n't define it as ' forever , ' " Carmel said on Tuesday . " But we are for sure staying for the foreseeable future . "
