<h> IDF confiscates weapons , arrests four wanted people in West Bank op . <p> The IDF , Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , and Israel Border Police confiscated five weapons and large quantities of ammunition in As-Samu and Halhul in the West Bank , the agencies announced on Friday . <p> The forces also arrested four wanted suspects in Halhul , Dayr Ghazale , and Silat ad-Dhahr and transferred them for further processing . <h> " I want to say you will never be alone again in your fight for freedom and to preserve the country and the land and the heritage that God gave you , " Huckabee said . <p> Mike Huckabee , President-elect Donald Trump 's nominated US ambassador to Israel , reaffirmed America 's commitment to Israel , stating that the Jewish state would never stand alone during a speech at the One Israel Fund 's 30th anniversary gala . <p> " I want to say you will never be alone again in your fight for freedom and to preserve the country and the land and the heritage that God gave you , " Huckabee said . <p> During the event , Huckabee also met the head of the Binyamin Council and the chairman of the Yesha Council , Israel Gantz . The two discussed what is expected in the new era under President Trump . <h> Future of the West Bank <p> Gantz also met senior US officials to promote the future of the West Bank . <p> " The meetings with the senior US officials are very important , and he heard that they exude a spirit that has not been present in the White House for years , " Gantz told The Jerusalem Post . <p> The Binyamin Council head added that " they are true partners of the State of Israel and the settlement , and a large number of them have visited us in Binyamin in recent years . They are capable of promoting a policy based on truth in which the Land of Israel belongs to the people of Israel and the axis of evil must be completely eradicated wherever it is . " <h> LEGAL AFFAIRS : The definition of genocide is firmly established in the Genocide Convention and explicitly requires clear evidence of an intent to destroy a protected group . <p> By NATHAN KLABIN/THE MEDIA LINE IRELAND HAS joined South Africa in its accusations of genocide at Israel . Here , jurist Malcolm Shaw looks on at the ICJ during a ruling on South Africa 's request to order a halt to Israel 's Rafah offensive in Gaza in May. ( photo credit : JOHANNA GERON/REUTERS ) <p> Ireland is going to request that the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) in The Hague broaden its interpretation of genocide amid the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas , with Ireland 's deputy prime minister , Miche ? l Martin , asserting that the IDF 's actions in Gaza constitute " collective punishment " of Palestinians . <p> Martin expressed concerns that a " narrow interpretation " of genocide fosters a " culture of impunity , " minimizing civilian protection . The Irish leader emphasized that Ireland 's perspective on the UN 's Genocide Convention is more expansive , prioritizing civilian safety . However , he failed to make any mention of the 100 hostages and dead bodies that remain in Hamas captivity today . <p> Ireland secured cabinet approval to intervene in South Africa 's existing case at the ICJ against Israel over its actions in Gaza . Israel is facing allegations of committing genocide against Palestinians , allegations it has consistently denied , labeling them as unfounded and misleading . Ireland 's announcement also requested a change in the definition of genocide in Gambia 's case against Myanmar under the same UN Genocide Convention . <p> Iain Edwards , a defense counsel at the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) , also in The Hague , explained to The Media Line that the Irish filing will be made later this month , and that the details of the argument will be provided only then . <p> " I think the interpretation of how a state can commit genocide should not be excessively widely drawn , but there is certainly scope for the ICJ to look at the question afresh , " Edwards said . <p> International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) holds a hearing to allow parties to give their views on the legal consequences of Israel 's ' occupation ' of the Palestinian territories before eventually issuing a non-binding legal opinion in The Hague , Netherlands , February 19 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/PIROSCHKA VAN DE WOUW ) <p> Jackie Goodall , the founder and executive director of the Ireland Israel Alliance , bashed the initiative and highlighted its motivation . <p> " All of this is the appeasement of hostile and aggressive anti-Israel protesters and marchers , many of whom cover their faces with masks and keffiyehs , who regularly advocate for Israel 's destruction and defiantly call for ' Zionists out of Ireland ' while flying Hamas , Hezbollah terrorist flags on the streets of our main cities and even outside government buildings . They remain unchallenged , " she said . <p> " We are very concerned with how this issue is impacting Ireland 's diplomatic relationship with Israel . We fear this issue will further escalate matters between our two countries in the medium and long term , " Goodall added . <p> According to Goodall , the move does not reflect the sentiments of most Irish people ; however , " the increasingly hostile climate is very concerning , as many supporters are ever more fearful of extremist elements . " <p> For Dr. Eliav Lieblich , a scholar in public international law and a professor at Tel Aviv University , " The intervention by Ireland in South Africa 's case is a diplomatic blow to Israel , which highlights that this case does not strictly reflect a division between the Global North and the Global South -- although Ireland has historically been supportive of the Palestinians . " <p> Dr. Tammy Caner , director of the Law and National Security Program at the Institute for National Security Studies , believes it is essential to seek explanations from Israel " regarding its controversial military actions ; Israel may not be perfect and has made several mistakes , but the only genocidal war criminal in this war is Hamas . Requesting the ICJ to broaden its interpretation explicitly indicates that Israel is not committing genocide . " <p> Lieblich also agrees that attempting to change the definition of genocide amid a trial on the subject tells how the case is being seen by its supporters . " The text of the letter is a double-edged sword for the case since Ireland seems to concede that the accepted interpretation of the crime would not apply in this case and argues that it should be changed , " he said . <p> " Israel and its supporters will seize on this statement to claim that Ireland implicitly admits that Israel is not committing genocide based on accepted standards , " he added . <p> Asserting that Ireland would most likely not make other accusations against Israel if its effort in getting the court to redefine genocide wo n't succeed , Lieblich said : " Defining new crimes would not assist here , because the reason that the ICJ has jurisdiction over this case is specifically tied to the convention against genocide , " he added . <p> South Africa was only able to appeal to the ICJ rather than the ICC criminal court , based on the claim that Israel violated the UN Genocide Convention , to which both Israel and South Africa are parties . There were no other UN conventions under which South Africa could charge Israel for violations . <p> The definition of genocide is firmly established in the Genocide Convention and explicitly requires clear evidence of an intent to destroy a protected group , either in whole or in part . <p> " While the ICJ has the authority to interpret the Genocide Convention , it can not redefine this essential term simply upon Ireland 's request , " added Caner . <p> Regardless of whether the ICJ will accept Ireland 's move , it has amplified an already fraught international debate about the situation in Gaza . <h> Broader implications <p> As the ICJ deliberates on this contentious issue , the implications will certainly extend beyond Israel and Ireland , testing the balance between evolving interpretations of human rights and the foundational principles of legal precedent and impartiality . <p> The Irish government 's press release , making no distinction between civilian victims in Gaza and Hamas terrorists , stated only that " there has been a collective punishment of the Palestinian people through the intent and impact of military actions of Israel in Gaza , leaving 44,000 dead and millions of civilians displaced . " <p> Along with Ireland 's continued refusal to adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance 's definition of antisemitism , this framing has fueled Israel 's accusations of bias and selective application of international law , according to Goodall . <h> Current progress in the talks remains stuck for the time being , as the two sides remain at an impasse over a couple of Israeli demands . <p> No progress was made towards the completion of a hostage deal/ceasefire agreement on Thursday , and CIA Director William J. Burns , who was in Doha for the talks , left Qatar after being there for a day , a US official , speaking on the condition of anonymity , told The Washington Post on Friday . <p> Burns is no longer in the Middle East , the official told the American news outlet . Nevertheless , negotiations are still underway as Israel , Hamas , and American , Egyptian , and Qatari mediators " want to prepare the ground for Trump , " a member of a diplomatic mission in the Middle East told the Post . <p> " They know that if they do n't reach such an agreement , it will not be a good thing for any of them , including the Israelis , " the member of the diplomatic mission said . " I think this has resulted in a lot of developments . ... The question is whether or not they wait for Trump . " <p> Nevertheless , current progress in the talks remains stuck for the time being , as the two sides remain at an impasse over a couple of Israeli demands , Egyptian officials told the Hezbollah-affiliated Lebanese news outlet Al-Akhbar on Friday . <p> Hamas official Osama Hamdan holds a press conference about the current war in Gaza . ( credit : HAMAS ) <h> Sticking points <p> The most notable of these points , according to the Lebanese news organization , is Israel 's requirement that Hamas provide it with a list of the names of all the hostages , living and dead . <p> Hamas sources told Al-Akhbar on Thursday that this demand would first require at least a one-week pause in the fighting so that Hamas and other terrorists could have enough space to locate and determine the status of the remaining hostages . <p> The other main Israeli demand that is causing a holdup in the talks , Hamas sources told Al-Akhbar , is that captive Israeli soldiers be included " in lists of prisoners who meet the criteria for the humanitarian phase . " <h> Current progress in the talks remains stuck for the time being , as the two sides remain at an impasse over a couple of Israeli demands . <p> No progress was made towards the completion of a hostage deal/ceasefire agreement on Thursday , and CIA Director William J. Burns , who was in Doha for the talks , left Qatar after being there for a day , a US official , speaking on the condition of anonymity , told The Washington Post on Friday . <p> Burns is no longer in the Middle East , the official told the American news outlet . Nevertheless , negotiations are still underway as Israel , Hamas , and American , Egyptian , and Qatari mediators " want to prepare the ground for Trump , " a member of a diplomatic mission in the Middle East told the Post . <h> Netanyahu , Katz approved Yemen strikes without cabinet input - KAN <p> The Wednesday night Israeli strikes on Yemen were approved by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense Minister Yisrael Katz but not by the cabinet , Israeli public broadcaster KAN reported on Friday . <p> Cabinet ministers were reportedly only made aware of the general details but , according to KAN 's sources , were not presented with either the targets of the attack or its purpose .
