<h> TRADE AFFAIRS : Israel and Ireland both have tech industries as their main economic growth engines and are most clearly on a diplomatic collision course . <p> By ASSAF UNI/GLOBES/TNS DECEMBER 20 , 2024 12:49 <p> ' SINCE THE start of the war , it has been much more difficult to be an Israeli in Ireland . ' Here , protesters call for the government to impose sanctions on Israel , during a demonstration in Dublin in November. ( photo credit : CLODAGH KILCOYNE/REUTERS ) <p> The Foreign Ministry announced Sunday that it is taking one of the most severe steps in the diplomatic procedures book and closing its embassy in Ireland . <p> This is the first time that Israel has ever closed an embassy of a European Union ( Israel 's biggest trade partner ) member state . <p> The reason for taking action was an " extreme anti-Israel policy , " and " crossing redlines " in Ireland 's support for the Palestinians in international institutions , including joining the Palestinian side against Israel in the legal proceedings in The Hague . <p> Israel and Ireland both have tech industries as their main economic growth engines and are most clearly on a diplomatic collision course . Globes examines the recent developments . <h> What is the background to Israel closing its embassy ? <p> Ireland is considered the most pro-Palestinian country in the EU , with public opinion deeply identifying with the Palestinians as an " occupied " people . After October 7 , 2023 , the public and politicians united in expressing support for the Palestinians , not the Israelis . ( Illustrative ) Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar over a back drop of an Irish and Palestinian flag . ( credit : Canva , Clodagh Kilcoyn/Reuters , OLIVIER FITOUSSI/FLASH90 ) <p> " We see our history through the eyes of the Palestinians , " prime minister Leo Varadkar said at the time . Some 79% believed that Israel is committing genocide in Gaza , according to recent polls , and 71% believed that the Palestinians live under an apartheid regime . <p> Ireland has in recent months initiated an attempt to suspend trade relations between Israel and the EU , claiming that Israel is violating international law . It independently announced a law to boycott products from settlements , contrary to EU policy . The Irish sovereign wealth fund has divested investments from all Israeli companies in its portfolio . Ireland also recognized a Palestinian state in May , in a move coordinated with Spain and Norway . <p> The Irish president accused the Israeli Embassy of leaking a flattering letter of congratulations he had written to the new Iranian president , and Prime Minister Simon Harris announced last week that Ireland would join a South African petition alleging genocide is taking place in the Gaza Strip . <p> Ireland , which was the last country in the EU to open an Israeli Embassy , in 1993 , could now become the first to close one . <h> What type of trade relations are there between Israel and Ireland ? <p> Israel and Ireland had combined annual trade of $5.9 billion in 2023 , according to the Israel Export Institute . Half of this amount is in goods , and half in services . <p> In the services sector , Ireland has become , with the help of a favorable tax policy , a destination for Israeli tech companies seeking easy access to the European market , so it is mainly intellectual property . <p> According to Ofir Angel , chairman of the Israel-Ireland Chamber of Commerce , who is chairman of international consulting firm Auren in Israel , " Hundreds of Israelis have relocated to Ireland " in recent years , as part of the opening of a European office or the transfer of Israeli tech companies to Ireland . One of the most notable of these is Wix , which opened an office in Dublin . <p> " Before the war in Gaza , there were several Irish companies that visited Israel to examine participation in infrastructure projects in transport , communications , and railways , and there were joint projects by Intel which operates in both countries , " Angel said . But since the beginning of the war , he said , " Inquiries from Ireland have dropped by 80% . It 's as if Irish companies are not interested in having any connection with Israel , or being labeled with one . " <p> From the Israeli side , he said , interest in recent years has mainly been from tech companies . " The Irish still have a policy of lenient taxation for tech companies , and it is an English-speaking European country that uses the euro , so it is a successful destination for companies trying to enter the European market . <p> " But since the start of the war , it has been much more difficult to be an Israeli in Ireland . The atmosphere is against us . Everyone who lives there hides the fact that they are Israeli . " <h> What are the economic implications of closing the embassy ? <p> " From a business perspective , it 's a shame , " Angel said , " because there are people at the embassy in Dublin who have been very helpful to Israeli companies entering the Irish market in recent years . There is an experienced team there who even help informally in opening appropriate doors . These connections will disappear . " <p> From a strategic perspective , he added , this is a wretched development , " Because all these years Israel has not invested much in diplomacy or in changing public opinion in Ireland . We could actually be a country close to the Irish , not a rival country . We have similar characteristics , and we are competing for US technology investors . We need to decide strategically how to proceed , and right now both sides have been dragged into being rivals . We are currently competing for investors as well as for global public opinion . " <h> What are the diplomatic implications of closing the embassy ? <p> " There is a very sharp message here of giving up on a country from a diplomatic perspective , " said Dr. Maya Sion-Tzidkiyahu , director of the Israel-Europe Relations Program at the Mitvim Institute . " It is true that Ireland is a small country , but it is not marginal . Economically , it is important because it is a hub for many international tech companies . Our message in closing the embassy is that we see no point in having relations with them . No matter what we do , they will not see the Israeli side , which is irreversible . " <p> Sion-Tzidkiyahu said that the Irish case is exceptional , and the positions against Israel are particularly strong , " so it is difficult to see the picture changing . Sometimes it is precisely when you break the rules that you convey the message properly . When the Irish themselves call for the embassy in Israel to be closed and diplomatic relations to be severed ; when pictures of the Israeli ambassador are published with blood illustrations and calls for her removal -- maybe it is good to think about how far you can go banging your head against the wall . " <h> How will Israel 's move be seen in Ireland ? <p> Irish newspapers reported the Israeli move in their front pages on Monday morning . Prime Minister Harris said Ireland was not expected to close its embassy in Israel in the near future in response , " because it does important work . " Irish Foreign Minister Micheal Martin said Ireland was " not hostile " to Israel , but that the situation in Gaza " exceeds any measure of humanity . " He also reiterated Ireland 's intention to bring the EU 's association agreement with Israel , which serves as the basis for trade relations , to the EU summit . <p> The chairman of the Jewish Representative Council of Ireland , Maurice Cohen , said he was " deeply concerned . " He criticized the Irish government 's policy of joining South Africa in the Hague case , and said the embassy closure was not only a " symbolic blow " to Israelis and Jews but also a disadvantage due to the loss of embassy services . <p> On social media , many Israelis living in Ireland expressed concern about the continued receipt of consular services at the embassy in Dublin . ( Globes/TNS )
