<p> At Cog , our goal is to add perspective and depth to timely news stories and ideas , while remaining deeply personal . We want to be relevant but not reactive ; inspiring but not cloying ; provocative , but never mean . <p> Advertisement <p> We write this most years , but holy smokes : what a year ! When we sat down to pull this list together , we were overwhelmed -- spent hours talking through all the stand-outs . Ultimately , we decided to put 2024 's best stories into categories : personal essays , political commentary , multi-platform work ( we 've been experimenting with more audio and video storytelling ) and newsletter essays , which became a much bigger part of our wheelhouse this year . <p> Thank you for giving us the gift of your attention . To 2025 we go . <p> -- Cloe Axelson , Kate Neale Cooper , Sara Shukla <p> PERSONAL ESSAY <p> Personal essays are Cog 's bread and butter . They 're what help us find the beating heart of the news . Whether it 's a reflection on mass transit , the casually cruel chaos of the stars or a book club that never talks about books , these essays helped us make meaning of some of life 's universal experiences . <p> Maybe in this age of increased polarization and decreased civic participation , an age of increased road deaths and social isolation , taking mass transit is a positive way we can all participate in public life , writes Christina Ganim . ( January 17 ) <p> I did not come from a fast car family , but I came of age around fast car boys who drag raced on quarter-mile stretches of highway , writes Susan Donovan Bernhard . Tracy Chapman tapped into something fragile and raw and aching . ( February 8 ) <p> " I did not come from a fast car family , " writes Susan Donovan Bernhard , " but I came of age around fast car boys who drag raced on quarter-mile stretches of highway . " One of those fast car boys shared this photo of his cousin in an embrace in front of his 1975 Duster . ( Courtesy Susan Donovan Bernhard ) <p> Seven years ago , Lisa Mullins and her partner , Ken , made a reservation at a motel in Lancaster , New Hampshire to see this year 's total eclipse . Astronomical predictions of light and dark are unshakably precise , she writes . Life on Earth is less so . ( April 5 ) <p> Andrea Skinner , the youngest daughter of Alice Munro , shared an essay this week about being sexually abused by her stepfather . Speaking up does n't come without pain and loss and years of work to recover from the violence she suffered and from her mother 's horrifying betrayal , writes Janet Chwalibog . What it does come with is courage . ( July 12 ) <p> Predictions about dark and light will be unshakably precise . We knew all that seven years ago . What this heavenly event reminds me , is that we can only plan around the edges and prepare and pack and anticipate -- and hope . <p> In the empty nest articles I read last summer , there was a lot of advice about relationships with other people , writes Meaghan Shields . But I had no idea that becoming an empty nester would improve my relationship with myself . ( August 23 ) <p> The first few meetings of Laura McTaggart 's book club involved minimal scholarly discussion and no one complained . We must be doing something right because more than a decade later , the same six of us still gather regularly to discuss everything except the chosen book . ( September 13 ) <p> The author 's sons on a visit to Paraguay in 2011 . ( Courtesy Marjie Alonso ) <p> Rumors of stolen children adopted by unsuspecting parents circulated in international adoption circles for decades . And now a recent report confirms they 're true . Nearly 30 years ago , Marjie Alonso adopted two boys from Paraguay . I need to take a hard look at the families I dismantled to build my own . ( September 26 ) <p> POLITICAL COMMENTARY <p> Last January , we knew politics would loom large in our mix of 2024 stories . Between the war in Gaza ( and accompanying turmoil on college campuses ) , the first ever convictions ( 34 at last count ) of an American president , the on-going rollback of reproductive rights , the return of a Kennedy , an assassination attempt and a last-minute candidate switch atop the Democratic ticket , we raced to keep up with the body politic . Here are our favorite political pieces from the year . <p> The author on the cover of the November 1982 issue of Life magazine . ( Courtesy Elizabeth Carr ) <p> Much of the voting public is disturbingly unaware of President Biden 's climate record and the assault that the Heritage Foundation 's Project 2025 would marshal against it , writes Frederick Hewett . But in a close election that may hinge on a few votes in a few states , they should be . ( March 27 ) <p> Daniel Osborn was raised in an interfaith home , and when he became a father , he wanted to instill in his son an affinity for cultural exchange . He built reminders of Jewish and Arabic values into their daily routines . ( April 1 ) <p> In this ruling , the Supreme Court 's conservative majority -- which regularly crows about its fealty to the original intent of the U.S. Constitution -- have ignored the explicit counsel of the Founders , writes Eileen McNamara . It is the dissenting opinion that relies on their guidance . ( July 1 ) <p> Opposites certainly simplify things . But I refuse to believe that opposites are the only truth , or that they offer any kind of healing balm . <p> Nothing is permanent . Nothing lasts forever , not people , not wars , not governments , not nations , writes Leah Hager Cohen , in the wake of Joe Biden 's decision to end his re-election bid . Recognizing impermanence means understanding that everything is in motion , that the same force that enables loss enables growth . ( July 22 ) <p> Miguel and Kelly Cervantes have lost two children -- one at age 3 to a neurodegenerative condition , one in utero , at 21 weeks . I made the same heart-wrenching decision for both children , Kelly Cervantes writes . Yet one is legal in all 50 states and the other is n't . ( October 22 ) <p> In Jan Donley 's class at Berklee , her students study literature that centers on loss . Loss can make us sad , but it can also help us heal , Donley writes . In the wake of the 2024 presidential election , she 's been thinking about how loss can be a connecting force . ( November 15 ) <p> MULTI-PLATFORM <p> Cognoscenti is more than a page on a website . In 2024 , we continued to experiment with distributing our work across different channels . That included hosting events , producing work for the radio and continuing to experiment with video . Here 's some of our favorite multi-platform work from 2024 . <p> I thought getting in freezing cold water would be miserable and hard , and it was . But after a while , it became a near-daily exercise in redefining myself , writes Libby DeLana . When I got in the water , I could see myself clearly . ( February 9 ) <p> Sally Milliken , Claire Smith and Cognoscenti contributor Libby DeLana , far right , make their way out of the icy water at Stiles Pond in Boxford , Mass . ( Robin Lubbock/WBUR ) <p> Barbara Moran , 53 , has run five marathons . She gave up running 20 years ago , when arthritis began eating away at her knees . But what if she could run one more ? When Barb started training for Boston , she thought she was trying to hold onto her younger self . Instead , she grew . ( April 12 ) <p> Loving a place is not so dissimilar from loving a person . When we love somebody , we love the whole of them : with all their little quirks and beauties and annoyances . Cognoscenti welcomed chef and restaurateur Ana Sortun , Dr. Jim O'Connell , of Boston Health Care for the Homeless , author Anita Diamant and Catherine Morris , the founder of BAMS Fest , for an evening of readings , performances and conversation . ( May 30 ) <p> In September , Boston Mayor Michelle Wu performed George Gershwin 's " Rhapsody in Blue " at Symphony Hall with the Boston Pops . Cognoscenti spoke to her about her lifelong love of the piano and how it informs her role as a public servant . ( October 11 ) <p> Cog 's weekly newsletter arrives in inboxes on Sunday mornings . It always includes an original essay by one of Cog 's editors , a rundown of the stories we published during the previous week and links to what we 're reading . Readers tell us they read it over coffee or on their phones , still snuggled under the covers . In 2024 , we started publishing the newsletter essays to our website . Here are some of our favorites , including a guest essay from Steve Almond and a Q&amp;A about Dungeons &amp; Dragons , which turned 50 in 2024 . The newsletter is our ongoing conversation with our readers . We 'd love you to subscribe if you have n't already -- and tell a friend about it , too . <p> Any stories that are good originate from the deepest precincts of our inner lives , from our obsessions and fears and desires , writes Steve Almond , in this guest essay for Cog 's newsletter . We write about what we ca n't get rid of by any other means . ( April 9 ) <p> Dr. Jim O'Connell , of the Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program , is a receptacle for his patients ' tales , writes Cloe Axelson . Retelling them is perhaps a way to make some sense of all the difficulty and heartache -- or at least to make it small enough to hold , and keep moving . ( May 26 ) <p> This week , Robert Putnam 's ideas and an essay about book clubs and the presidential debate have been sloshing around in my brain , an odd stew . It made me want to re-examine my own thinking about being a " joiner , " writes Cloe Axelson . ( September 15 ) <p> The pendant Kate Neale Cooper 's mother gave her when her grandfather died was very special to her , but she did n't wear it that often . " I 'm not really a jewelry person , " she writes . All that changed a decade later . ( September 29 ) <p> A group of players concentrate on a game of Dungeons &amp; Dragons in 1985 . ( Bruce Milton Miller/Fairfax Media via Getty Images ) <p> You could n't pay me to watch a scary movie , writes Sara Shukla , but when my 12-year-old became obsessed with them last year , I started to see how sometimes it 's about more than the jump scares . ( October 27 ) <p> There is a rush to know and understand all of this . I do n't have many answers at the moment , but I 'm also not convinced it 's a good idea to try to settle them so quickly , writes Cloe Axelson . ( November 8 )
