<p> Third and fourth grade students watch a solar eclipse at Marquette Elementary School at 6550 S. Richmond St. in Chicago Lawn , Monday , April 8 , 2024 . With sunny skies and a high of 71 degrees , students , workers and families across Chicago took a break from their daily routines to marvel at the partial eclipse -- a spectacle that wo n't be seen in the U.S. again until 2044 . <h> The year in pictures : Here are our top photos from 2024 <p> It 's been a year . We say that most Decembers at the Sun-Times . But 2024 was particularly big . <p> Chicago hosted the Democratic National Convention , while Milwaukee welcomed the Republicans . We saw the rat hole go viral then disappear , as did natural phenomena -- cicadas and a solar eclipse . We traveled to Canada and Colombia to report on migrants and protests back home . We got our ups with Lollapalooza , while the White Sox and Bears brought plenty of downs . <p> The Sun-Times photo staff captured it all . Here 's our best work of 2024 . <p> Ethan Lopez , 6 , rings a bell to celebrate his last chemotherapy session while his mother Gisela Gama holds him at Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children 's Hospital of Chicago in the Streeterville neighborhood , Friday , Jan. 5 , 2024 . Kids read a poem and ring a bell whenever they finish their chemotherapy . Chicago Bears Pres. and CEO Kevin Warren and his wife Greta Warren announced a $1 million pledge to help families who are receiving treatment at Lurie Children 's Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders . The money will help fund transportation , accommodations and other needs for families , according to a press release . <p> Food scientist technicians inspect chocolate bars that are coming out of a conveyor belt during a media tour of the Mars Global Research and Development Hub in Goose Island , Thursday , Jan. 18 , 2024 . The 44,000 square-foot facility features a clean nut kitchen , a test kitchen , panning and printing rooms and a flexible pilot line which will allow scientists and products developers to experiment and innovate for chocolates like Snickers , Twix and more . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Yasmeen Elagha , who has been trying to help her relatives evacuate from Khan Younis in Gaza , stands in front of a photo of her , her cousins and other relatives in Oakbrook Terrace , Ill. , Saturday , Jan. 20 , 2024 . Elagha 's two cousins , Borak and Hashem Elagha ( pictured on the television ) , are U.S. citizens whose evacuation with their family have been approved by the U.S. but are being stalled because their names are not on an exit list , which Israel and Egypt finalize , she said . She hopes that the U.S. government will do more to advocate for their evacuation . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Comfort Agboola , a teacher at the Edgar Allan Poe Classical Elementary School in the Pullman neighborhood , cries as she is surprised with the news that she won the Milken Educator Award in the school , Feb. 2 , 2024 . The award , which comes with a $25,000 cash prize , recognizes excellent educators across the nation . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> A student reacts at the Edgar Allan Poe Classical Elementary School in the Pullman neighborhood , where officials awarded Comfort Agboola the Milken Educator Award , Friday , Feb. 2 , 2024 . The award , which comes with a $25,000 cash prize , recognizes excellent educators across the nation . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Kaylee Huang ( center ) , who is in the seventh grade at Robert Healy Elementary School , performs with Janet Mei ( right ) , a sixth grader , during a Lunar New Year celebration at Robert Healy Elementary School in the Bridgeport neighborhood , Thursday , Feb. 8 , 2024 . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Sarah Curran , executive director of UChicago Presents , sits in the stands of Mandel Hall at the University of Chicago in Hyde Park , Tuesday , Feb. 20 , 2024 . Curran took over as executive director in June 2023 with a goal to make the classically based music series more innovative , inclusive and interdisciplinary , and more connected to other facets of the university and the city beyond . <p> Jody Roberts , grandfather of 14-year-old Amere Deese , shares memories of the teen while standing outside his South Shore home , Monday , Feb. 26 , 2024 . Amere was one of three people killed in a shooting that Chicago police said also left one person wounded Sunday evening in a home in Chatham on the South Side . <p> A home smells of smoke and water after it was destroyed by a fire in the 8000 block of South South Shore Drive in South Chicago , early Monday , March 4 , 2024 . Chicago Transit Authority bus driver Anastasios Adamopoulos , 63 , and a passenger hopped off his bus about 2 a.m. and awoke 14 residents sleeping inside the building and a neighboring house that also caught fire . <p> An aerial view of Soldier Field looking north toward the city 's skyline , as the Chicago Bears shift their focus to the parking area south of their current home in their quest for a new domed stadium , Monday , March 11 , 2024 . <p> Brian Ernst/Sun-Times <p> John Paunovic , meat manager at Ed 's Way Food Mart , looks into remaining stock in the frozen foods aisle of the store at 946 Beloit Ave . in Forest Park , Thursday , March 21 , 2024 . After nearly 33 years in business , the beloved family-owned grocery store is shutting its doors to make way for a planned 10-unit townhome building . <p> Zubaer Khan/Sun-Times <p> Attendees dance while throwing powder in the air during a Holi celebration , which is a Hindu tradition , at Navy Pier , Saturday , March 23 , 2024 . " Global Connections : Holi " is a free event that features performances , live music and powder throwing . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> A man places a bag on top of a car outside the migrant shelter at Broadway Armory Park in Edgewater , Saturday , March 30 , 2024 . More than 730 asylum seekers are expected to be moved from five Chicago Park District locations : Brands Park , Gage Park , Leone Beach Boathouse , Broadway Armory Park and Piotrowski Park . <p> Lithuanian National Cemetery manager Leonas Putrius stands near green burial graves at the cemetery in Justice , Monday , April 8 , 2024 . About 60% of people are interested in exploring green funeral options , more than ever before . <p> Dexter Reed 's sister , Porscha Banks , shouts at Chicago police officers as activists try to deescalate the situation during a protest outside the District 11 police station , Tuesday , April 9 , 2024 . Reed , 26 , was shot to death by Chicago police during a traffic stop on March 21 . The Civilian Office of Police Accountability on Tuesday said video of the incident appeared to show Reed opened fire first , striking an officer in the hand before four other cops fired roughly 96 shots at Reed in 41 seconds . <p> Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Time <p> Kids play with a balloon during an Eid-Al-Fitr prayer event at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center in Rosemont , Wednesday , April 10 , 2024 . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Melany Oreste ( left ) and Eider Torres ( right ) travel together on the Pamplona-Cucuta highway near the Los Acacios toll outside of Cucuta in Norte de Santander , Colombia , Sunday , April 14 , 2024 . Over the past two years , the city of Chicago has struggled to care for destitute migrants arriving from the southern border . The majority , around 30,000 , are from Venezuela , a South American country whose economy has collapsed . Colombia initially rolled out the welcome mat and , by many measures , absorbed this population with little harm and many benefits . Nearly 1.9 million Venezuelans gained paths to formal employment as well as Colombia 's education and health care systems . More recently , however , Colombia 's migrant integration has begun to falter due to the indifference of a new president , waning interest among international donors and a wave of xenophobia rippling through the public . Colombia -- a decade into a muddled but essentially humane response to a migrant crisis -- holds many lessons for Chicago . <p> Relatives of 9-year-old Ariana Molina mourn in the 2000 block of West 52nd Street after a mass shooting during a gathering the night before on the Back of the Yards neighborhood block , Sunday , April 14 , 2024 . Molina was killed in the 9:30 p.m . Saturday shooting that left 10 other people wounded , including the girl 's mother and three boys , ages 1 , 8 and 9 . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Construction workers install granite exterior cladding to the Obama Presidential Center in Jackson Park , Tuesday , April 16 , 2024 . The 235-foot center 's construction is scheduled to be completed by spring 2026 . <p> Jim Vondruska/For the Sun-Times <p> A couple sits on a bench overlooking a park and the Toronto skyline , Saturday , April 20 , 2024 . Canada is known for its friendlier approach to immigration , but it also faces hurdles as record numbers of people are displaced globally . The Sun-Times traveled to Toronto to explore how the country handles housing and job needs for its newest immigrants . <p> People sit outside Toronto 's intake center at 129 Peter St. , where many refugee claimants and asylum seekers go to seek government housing services , Monday , April 22 , 2024 . While many praise Canada 's Express Entry system as speedier than the months-long wait to get a work permit in the United States , immigrants can face hurdles finding pay and job titles equivalent to the ones in their native countries . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> A protester sits with a Palestinian flag at Northwestern University 's Deering Meadow in Evanston , where students and professors set up an encampment in support of Palestinians to demand Northwestern " protect student civil liberties and safety , end partnerships that legitimize genocide and occupation , and disclose and divest from war and apartheid , " according to organizers , Thursday , April 25 , 2024 . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Chicago Police Officer Luis Huesca 's mother , Edith Huesca , carries the Chicago flag that draped her son 's casket as she is escorted to her vehicle after his funeral at St. Rita of Cascia Shrine Chapel , Monday , April 29 , 2024 . Officer Huesca , who had been on the police force for six years and was just two days away from his 31st birthday , was wearing his uniform when he was shot to death April 21 while driving home from work on the Southwest Side . <p> Anthony Vazquez/Sun-Times <p> The " Monument with Standing Beast " sculpture , the 29-foot tall structure that has stood outside the Thompson Center since 1984 , was removed , Thursday , May 2 , 2024 . <p> A demonstrator is detained by Chicago police officers as they clear an encampment set up for several hours by students protesting the Israel-Hamas war at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in the Loop , Saturday , May 4 , 2024 . Nearly 70 people were arrested as protesters demanded the school and museum disclose its investments , give amnesty to demonstrators and divest from those supporting the " occupation of Palestine . " <p> A punch is thrown as pro-Palestinian protesters clash with counter-protesters at the encampment in the quad at the University of Chicago on the South Side , Friday , May 3 , 2024 . Encampment organizers demand that the university disclose its investments in weapons manufacturers , divest from those connected to Israel and repair the damage those investments have inflicted on the South Side and abroad . <p> An Israeli flag is raised as Chicago 's Jewish community and supporters celebrate Israel Independence Day in Daley Plaza , Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 . Israel declared its independence on May 14 , 1948 . The celebration was muted in the wake of the Israel-Hamas war and out of consideration for the hostages still being held by the terror group . <p> A periodical cicada flies away from Stephanie Adams , plant healthcare leader at the Morton Arboretum , Friday , May 17 , 2024 . The periodical cicadas have emerged in the Chicago area for the first time in 17 years . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Cicadas perch on plants in Aurora , Wednesday , May 22 , 2024 . The periodical cicadas , which emerge from underground in the spring every 17 years , are expected to die off by the end of June , according to Morton Arboretum scientists . When they die off , millions of the dead insects will cover the ground in suburban Chicago and much of northern Illinois . <p> Josefina Morales smiles for the camera while watching the Puerto Rican People 's Day Parade , which took place on West Division Street from North Campbell Avenue to North Sacramento Avenue on the West Side , Saturday , June 8 , 2024 . Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Chief Keef brings his daughter on stage while performing at Lyrical Lemonade 's Summer Smash music festival at SeatGeek Stadium in Bridgeview , Sunday , June 16 , 2024 . For the first time in the Chicago area in nearly 12 years , old and new fans saw the king of drill music -- real name Keith Cozart -- deliver a firefly medley ranging from his classic street anthems from 2011-2013 to songs from his new album " Almighty So 2 . " <p> A family stands with one of their two new air conditioning units outside their Humboldt Park home , Wednesday , June 19 , 2024 . Restaurant owner Robert Magiet delivered free AC units to residents in Logan Square , Humboldt Park and other areas as Chicago hit four days in a row with temperatures exceeding 90 degrees . <p> Kylie Lefever , who performs in drag as Kylee Hunter , does her makeup and prepares for a performance at Roscoe 's Tavern in Northalsted , Thursday , June 13 , 2024 . Over the decades , Chicago has become a premier place to practice the art of drag . Recently , the city has also become a safe haven for drag queens . <p> Tom and Mina Popp , who attended Highland Park 's Independence Day Parade for the first time in 2022 , dance during the Independence Day Parade along Central Avenue in Highland Park , Thursday , July 4 , 2024 . Two years after the Highland Park shooting , Tom Popp said there was some " apprehension " in going back this year , but he hopes it will become a family tradition . <p> Edith Renfrow Smith , who will celebrate her 110th birthday on July 14 , takes a break while baking a sour cherry pie at her North Side home , Friday , July 5 , 2024 . Smith , Grinnell College class of ' 37 , is a rare " supercentenarian " and in the fall her alma mater is naming a new dorm after her . <p> A piping plover chick nestles with an adult piping plover in the area sectioned off for the endangered species on Montrose Beach on the North Side , Wednesday , July 10 , 2024 . <p> Tyler Pasciak LaRiviere/Sun-Times <p> Ezra Solomon helps clear the road of debris near the intersection of West Huron and North Leavitt streets in West Town , after a record number of tornadoes passed through the Chicago area overnight , Tuesday , July 16 , 2024 , <p> Former President Donald Trump kisses the helmet and firefighter 's jacket that belonged to Corey Comperatore as he speaks on the fourth and final night of the 2024 Republican National Convention , accepting the party 's nomination for president , at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee , Wisconsin , Thursday , July 18 , 2024 . Comperatore , 50 , was fatally shot at a Pennsylvania rally where Trump survived an assassination attempt . <p> Former President Donald Trump responds to Rachel Scott , senior congressional correspondent for ABC News , as he participates in a conversation with journalists at the National Association of Black Journalists Annual Convention and Career Fair at the Hilton Chicago , Wednesday , July 31 , 2024 . The shortened session was full of incendiary comments from the ex-president , including claims of undocumented immigrants taking " Black jobs " and the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee of " only promoting Indian heritage . " <p> Chicago police push protesters and reporters from the sidewalk near North Clinton and West Madison streets near the security perimeter outside the United Center on the second night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention , Tuesday , Aug. 20 , 2024 . <p> Olivia del Cuadio , 4 , plays in the water feature at River Park on the Northwest Side as Chicago hit a record with a 99-degree temperature recorded at O'Hare International Airport , breaking a previous record that stood for more than half a century , Tuesday , Aug. 27 , 2024 . <p> A 10-foot-high metal fence surrounds a former homeless encampment at 1100 S. Desplaines St. , Wednesday , Sept. 4 , 2024 . Mayor Brandon Johnson 's administration spent $814,000 on the giant fence as part of an effort to shut down one of the city 's largest and most visible homeless encampments ahead of the Democratic National Convention , City Hall records show . <p> A woman holds an Israeli flag during a memorial organized by the Jewish United Fund in Chicago 's northern suburbs to honor victims of the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack on Israel , Monday , Oct. 7 , 2024 . It was one of many such events held to mark one year since the attack . <p> Families and educators react after the Acero Schools Board of Directors voted during a meeting at Acero Roberto Clemente School on the West Side to close seven of their 15 schools next year , Wednesday , Oct. 9 , 2024 . The closures are planned to begin June 2025 and will impact about 2,000 students . <p> Tommy Kendall holds a picture of his brother , Jess Kendall , next to Jess ' 1975 Chevy C10 in Elgin , Tuesday , Oct. 22 , 2024 . Jesse Kendall , 18 , and four friends were making their way to the United Center on Oct. 20 when they were confronted by four assailants who robbed them at gunpoint before fatally shooting Kendall . <p> A woman helps children walk under police tape as Chicago police work the scene where two people were shot , including a 9-year-old girl who suffered a graze wound to the calf , in the 5100 block of North Winthrop Avenue outside Goudy Technical Academy in Uptown , Friday , Nov. 1 , 2024 . <p> Voters line up to cast their ballots in the 2024 presidential election at DANK Haus German American Cultural in Lincoln Square on Election Day , Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> Cook County State 's Attorney candidate Eileen O'Neill Burke hugs her husband as she watches Election Day results trickle in during her watch party at Moe 's Cantina in River North , Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . Burke , a former prosecutor , law division judge and appellate court justice , was declared the winner in a landslide victory over Republican Bob Fioretti . <p> Anthony Vazquez/Sun-Times <p> Supporters eat and mingle as they watch results trickle in on Election Night at the Democratic Party of Illinois watch party for Democratic presidential nominee Vice President Kamala Harris at Joy District in River North , Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . <p> Ashlee Rezin/Sun-Times <p> Firefighters and police officers salute the ambulance carrying Chicago Police Officer Enrique Martinez 's body during the procession to the Cook County medical examiner 's office , early Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . Martinez , 26 , who was on the force for nearly three years , was fatally shot about 8 p.m . Monday during a traffic stop in the 8000 block of South Ingleside Avenue in Chatham . <p> Hendrix Skylan , a singer and songwriter known as Hendi Sky , wears a clown nose and a hat she made herself on Amtrak 's Train 41 , the Floridian , Tuesday , Nov. 12 , 2024 . Skylan hopped on the train in Chicago , Ill. and is going to Orland , Fla. for a music festival . " It 's nice to be down here where it kind of is like , it shifts your perspective as like to how big the world is ... It 's almost like a blip in time ... You like , open your eyes and you 're in a different state and you step out for a second and you 're there and then you get back on the train and then you 're somewhere else , " Skylan said . <p> Pat Nabong/Sun-Times <p> A person travels on a boat as the sun sets in Florida , Tuesday , Nov. 12 , 2024 . <p> Winner Ben Shabad is hoisted in the air by other participants during a Jeremy Allen White look-alike contest in Humboldt Park , Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 . Over 50 participants came out to take home the crown of the most Jeremy Allen White look-alike , most dressing as his character Carmen ' Carmy ' Berzatto from the series " The Bear . " <p> As part of our goal in the last few years to better reflect Chicago 's diversity in our news pages , we published a series of columns written by community members and held listening sessions in neighborhoods throughout the city , among other efforts . <p> The 17-year and 13-year periodical cicadas returned to the Chicago area this year , and I became the Sun-Times ' de facto cicada reporter , writing stories about tattoos , travel and snacks -- all coming back to cicadas . <p> An Andersonville man who was one of the first U.S. children to receive the polio vaccine chastises RFK Jr . and others who sow doubt on medical science . Others tackle the city 's ouster of Raed Mansour , slow U.S. Postal Service , Donald Trump 's dependence on Elon Musk , a possible delta-8 ban and childhood Christmas experiences .
