<p> At a time when the world is so chaotic you may be avoiding the news , it 's easy to conclude there 's no way you can make a difference . <p> Especially when it comes to Vladimir Putin 's genocidal war on Ukraine ( which the Trump administration may abandon ) , or Israel 's endless revenge on Gazan civilians for Hamas ' murderous rampage on Oct. 7 , 2023 . <p> Advertisement <p> Yet , one way to counter this sense of hopelessness -- one that I , too , often experience -- is to narrow your focus . This Christmas season , it is possible to donate to charitable organizations that can ease the suffering of individuals in war zones . Wherever possible , I am partial to smaller groups whose work I have witnessed abroad , especially in Ukraine . <p> As I did last year , I particularly recommend Ukraine TrustChain , whose teams deliver aid directly to where it is most needed , under threat of rockets and drone attacks . I have witnessed its terrific work on two reporting trips . <p> Ukraine TrustChain was founded at the start of the current war by two Ukrainian American friends who had emigrated from Kyiv to Chicago and Philadelphia , respectively , when they were 10 years old . Their concept was to find team leaders in Ukraine among people they or their circle of contacts trusted and have those volunteers build regional networks of people they trusted , in turn . <p> The money raised goes directly to the teams , with constant contact and periodic visits from U.S. board members . <p> Ukraine , like the United States , is a volunteer society , and immediately after the war , groups sprang up around the country to bring supplies to villages and towns under shelling and help or shelter those who wanted to evacuate . The TrustChain has drawn on such groups . <p> I traveled with volunteer groups comprised of professionals and entrepreneurs , including a florist , a restaurateur , a psychotherapist , and a real estate agent . Many of the volunteers were women and retirees , or young men below draft age , who drove every weekend with truckloads of donated foodstuffs and essentials to villages damaged by Russian forces . <p> In one case , the mission was to assess roof and window damage at homes and schools and return with repair workers hired via donations . In another , it was to help villagers dig out after flooding when the Russians blew up a dam . I have witnessed the gratitude of desperate Ukrainians for the group 's aid . <p> What is so astonishing is that these volunteers have persevered after nearly three years of war and incredible risks . Russian drone pilots are on the lookout for aid vehicles . In November , one volunteer was killed and his father injured by a drone while delivering much-needed firewood to elderly residents of Ochakiv , in southern Ukraine . This kind of dedication helps explain why the country has so far survived the Russian onslaught . <p> Another incredible humanitarian aid effort that has helped war wounded is the Ukraine Initiatives project , coordinated by the University of Pennsylvania 's Penn Center for Global Health under Glen Gaulton . The funding for this program comes from the Center for Global Health and from donations . <p> With the ongoing war , the number of amputations and explosive injuries has presented challenges that excellent Ukrainian surgeons have never encountered . <p> So numerous Penn surgeons and other specialists , guided medically by the indomitable Penn chief medical officer , Patrick J. Brennan , and supported logistically by the indefatigable Kierstyn Claycomb , partner up with leading Ukrainian medical centers . Via online consults , they supervise microsurgeries that can salvage limbs or prevent the worsening of leg and arm injuries . <p> Practically every day there are early morning online team-ups -- which are amazing to watch -- between Penn surgeons and Ukrainian counterparts conducting live operations . There are also periodic exchange visits by doctors . The idea is to train the Ukrainians in new surgical techniques so they , in turn , can train teams of colleagues . <p> I have witnessed the gratitude of frontline soldiers -- often civilians who had never fought before the Russian invasion -- whose limbs have been saved , infections cured , or debilitating pain relieved by this collaboration . And the need never ends . <p> When it comes to Gaza , I have not witnessed aid deliveries myself because Israel rarely permits foreign journalists to enter the strip . But I have long known about , and previously written about , the nonpartisan work of the private U.S. aid agency Anera , which has no political or religious affiliation and has worked since 1968 with those hurt by conflicts in Palestine , Lebanon , and Jordan . <p> Anera has been working inside Gaza with its own vetted local teams and security guards to provide aid whenever deliveries are permitted . And , of course , the need is endless there , as well . <p> For those who are concerned about the return of Israeli hostages , I recommend the Hostages and Missing Families Forum , which has been helping families of Israeli hostages and lobbying at home and abroad for a hostage release deal for months , even as the Israeli government showed little interest . ( Talk of a hostage deal has recently revived , but it is unclear when or if progress will occur . ) <p> And now that mass murderer and former Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has fled Damascus to Moscow , there will be a massive need for humanitarian aid inside Syria . Here , larger international aid agencies such as Doctors Without Borders , Save the Children , and International Rescue Committeemay be best placed to help , once the situation stabilizes . One note : You must specify that your donation should go to Syria since these large organizations work globally . <p> Just keep in mind the words of the famous precept in both the Talmud and Quran ( too often honored in the breach ) : " Whoever saves a life , it is considered as if he saved an entire world . "
