<h> Recommended <h> Breaking News <h> What Biden cost us , Putin must go and other commentary <p> By <p> Post Editorial Board <p> Published Dec. 22 , 2024 , 6:19 a.m . ET <p> President Joe Biden speaks during a Hanukkah reception in the East Room of the White House in Washington , Dec. 16 , 2024 . AP <p> From the right : What Biden Cost UsA new WSJ report on Joe Biden 's decline shows he " was n't up to the job on day one , let aloneday 1,000 , " argues Commentary 's Seth Mandel . Worse , " the global crises that arose duringBiden 's presidency were dealt with by reducing the flow of information to and from thepresident . " " We know the president 's aides were avoiding giving him bad news . Did Biden evenknow what was really happening on the ground in Ukraine ? When the administration froze theIsrael-Hamas war in Gaza for months , " who really ordered it ? " The fact that we have to ask thequestions at all " shows " enough of an answer to know that the world paid a dear price to protectthe fragile mental state of the American president . " <p> Ukraine desk : Putin Must Go " Putin 's war against Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has clearly become personal , " observe Jonathan Sweet &amp; Mark Toth at The Hill . " He suffers from Ukraine DerangementSyndrome : A disdain for the Ukrainian people " has " overcome his sense of logic . " " Surroundedby yes-men , Putin is marching his now largely conscripted pick-up game of an army intooblivion . " For Ukraine , " submit or face extinction " is " one and the same choice . " " Trump needs toput an end to Putin 's bluffing and grandstanding , " to demonstrate " to him that he can not win " by " ending the sanctuary afforded to Moscow on the battlefield by the Biden administration . " " Anything less and Putin will not come to the negotiating table , save to buy time and attempt tosnooker Trump into a bad deal . " <p> White House watch : The End of ' Never Trump ' ? Can " Never Trumpers " make " peace with populism , if not Donald Trump himself ? " asks FredBauer at UnHerd . " One of the founding ' Never Trumpers ' , Bret Stephens , has used his latestcolumn " to " distance himself " from the movement . " On the level of raw politics , Trump'sconservative critics have strategic incentives to make some populist rapprochement . " " Foreignpolicy might also give some Never Trumpers a reason to distance themselves from theDemocratic Party . " " Trump 's surprise win in 2016 gave birth to an elite-led alliance thatportrayed him and his supporters as an existential threat to American democracy . " " Even by itsown standards , that project of existential crisis has a legacy of ashes . Instead , revitalisingAmerican democracy might require learning some of the lessons of populism . " <p> Libertarian : COVID 's Crime Wave " Restrictive policies in response to COVID-19 did a huge amount of damage , " notes Reason'sJ.D . Tuccille . But " lockdowns also contributed to a surge in crime that temporarily reversed adecades-long decline in homicides . " " Most violent crimes " are committed by " teenage boys andyoung men in their twenties . Dumping them out of jobs and out of classrooms , " and " oftenwithout money in their pockets , " was " a recipe for disaster . " " The best thing to do ? " " Avoidrepeating the mistakes of the past . We need to minimize social disruptions and certainly notpermit government officials to close businesses and schools by decree . A free and prosperoussociety , it turns out , is a much happier and peaceful one than what results from the authoritarianwhims of public-health officials . " <p> Elex desk : Have Dems Learned Nothing ? " After it was shocked by its losses and the GOP 's gains in the 2024 elections , you would thinkthe Democratic Party might pull back from crazy left-wing proposals , " snarks Zachary Faria atthe Washington Examiner . But it 's " evident the party has not learned its lesson . " " Democratsrunning states and cities promise they will make protecting illegal immigrants their No. 1 priorityand that they will fight the Trump administration to keep illegal immigrants in the country . " " Prominent congressional Democrats " have argued that UnitedHealthcare killer Luigi Mangione " may have a point . " " Three Senate Democrats are pushing to eliminate the Electoral College . " " Itwould be difficult to say that Democrats learned all the wrong lessons from the 2024 electionsbecause it is clear they have learned no lessons at all . "
