<h> The Best Documentaries of 2024 <p> Courtesy of Netflix / HBO / Sundance Institute <p> Reality does n't bite . Well , okay , at times it does . A number of our choices for the best documentaries of the year capture turbulent realities , ominous politics , and , on occasion , stark tragedy . That 's one of the missions of nonfiction film : to put us in touch with dark things that are too often hidden away . But our list casts a wider net than that . It includes tales of hope and daring , of fighting back , of art and inspiration , of the heroism of ordinary people ... and extraordinary people . What the best documentaries of 2024 add up to is nothing less than a feast of reality . <h> The Antisocial Network : Memes to Mayhem <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of SXSW <p> An indispensible lesson in digital history that tracks the creation and rise of 4Chan -- the online universe where outrageous satires , the bro anarchy of " Jackass " stunts , and a free-floating impotent political rage fused into an " outlaw " stance of permanent rebellion . But the movie also captures how 4Chan spawned QAnon , and considering the significance of QAnon ( i.e. , the fact that half the country now thinks batshit psychotic fantasy scenarios are the essence of reality ) , it 's shocking to see that its creation was essentially a fluke . The conspiracy theory that became Pizzagate was created as a goof ; then people started to believe it . " The Antisocial Network " captures how the hackers and programmers of 4Chan wanted eyeballs and would do anything to get them . QAnon brainwashed the nation , but in its way it was the fulfillment of their viral dream . -- Owen Gleiberman <h> Bad Faith : Christian Nationalism 's Unholy War on Democracy <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Panarea Productions <p> The scariest and most penetrating political documentary of the year , though the media mostly ignored it . It captures how Donald Trump , in the time he has spent setting himself up to be an authoritarian leader , fashioned himself into a president who could mesh perfectly with the goals of Christian nationalism , a movement built around the dream of transforming America into a theocracy . The film 's directors , Stephen Uljaki and Chris Jones , go deep into the roots of this crusade , which believes not only in trashing democracy but in undermining the very concept of free will that 's at the heart of Christian theology . The movement 's goal is a nation ruled by a higher power than the Constitution -- ruled by the will of God , as interpreted by His white Christian followers . -- OG <h> The Bibi Files <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of TIFF <p> An extraordinary expos ? of how Benjamin Netanyahu has prolonged the war in Gaza to escape his own corruption scandal . Alexis Bloom 's riveting film is built around leaked tapes of the interrogation of Netanyahu by police . He 's as sly an actor as he is ruthless an autocrat . The movie is about how the accusations Netanyahu has been trying to squirm out from under since 2019 , when he was first indicted on charges of bribery , fraud , and breach of trust , have changed his identity as a politician . Bloom makes a powerful case that Netanyahu 's alliance with the far-right fringe of Israeli politics , which has culminated in his grotesque compulsion to prolong the massacre in Gaza with no end in sight , has been driven almost entirely by his fear of being toppled and imprisoned , to the point that he 's willing to rip a hole in Israeli society to avoid it . -- OG <h> Black Box Diaries <p> Image Credit : Courtesy image <p> Shiori Ito 's tightly wound , heart-on-the-sleeve procedural documentary takes place over the course of five years , during which Ito , a Japanese journalist , tracks her arduous struggle to bring to justice the older , more powerful man who sexually assaulted her -- the renowned TV reporter Noriyuki Yamaguchi , whose friends in high places included the prime minister . The film switches between modes of formal investigation and first-hand confessional , as archival footage blends into candid conversational iPhone videos and audio recordings . Without undue manipulation or sentimentality , the film pulls our emotions in sharp extremes that mirror the peaks and valleys of this hard-fought case . -- Guy Lodge <h> Catching Fire : The Story of Anita Pallenberg <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Magnolia Pictures <p> It 's a portrait of the legendary rock ' n ' roll scenester that captures her glamour and artistry . Svetlana Zill and Alexis Bloom 's film is most indelible , though , in laying bare the destructive underbelly of the rock counterculture . The filmmakers celebrate everything that made Anita Pallenberg a feminine force ahead of her time -- one of those Olympian women of the ' 60s who strode into a room and commanded it . But they also show you that she and Keith Richards had a complex relationship that was a crazy doom spiral . In addition to Pallenberg 's unpublished memoir , the film is built around a towering archive of home-movie footage , so that we feel we 're right there with Anita and Keith . We experience the sweet tranquility of lives being lived , but also the trail of wreckage they left . One of the darkest portraits of the rock world ever made , the movie captures how Pallenberg 's willingness to push everything to the edge and over it was inextricable from her cracked glamour . -- OG <h> Dahomey <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of MUBI <p> Mati Diop 's exquisitely strange film is a meditation on the return of looted artifacts to Benin . Diop , the director of " Atlantics , " has made a dreamlike , discursive , fantasy-inflected foray into the wildly contested issues surrounding the restitution of treasures stolen by colonial powers . The film starts in the basement level of the Parisian Mus ? e du Quai Branly , where several of the artifacts , including a wooden statue of King Gezo , who ruled the kingdom of Dahomey in the mid-1800s , and whose pose looks irresistibly like he 's giving a Black Power salute , are being packed up ready for transportation . Then , suddenly , we 're hearing the thoughts of statue-Gezo himself , as he contemplates his long years of captivity . His words flavor the film with a mysterious unease , as every celebratory impulse about the artifacts ' return is complicated by a far greater ambivalence about whether actual redress can ever be made . -- Jessica Kiang <h> Daughters <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Netflix <p> Natalie Rae and Angela Patton 's moving film follows four girls -- Aubrey Smith , 5 , Santana Stewart , 10 , Ja'Ana Crudup , 11 , and Raziah Lewis , 15 -- as they head toward an encounter with their imprisoned fathers . Patton is the founder of Girls for Change , the organization that launched its Date with Dad program 12 years earlier . As the day nears when the men will attend a dance and luncheon in the repurposed prison gymnasium , reunited with the daughters they 've been separated from , the film creates visually lyrical moments that connect viewers with the young ones ' sorrows , fears , insights , and hopes . And when the dance arrives , it does not disappoint . The filmmakers suture wounds , but they also make the familial and cultural scars apparent . The movie adds depth and dimension to stories of incarceration , even as it remains both the daughters ' story and their keepsake. -- Lisa Kennedy <h> Elizabeth Taylor : The Lost Tapes <p> Image Credit : Courtesy Everett Collection <p> There 's now a whole genre of celebrity documentary built around the playing of old analog tape recordings . Nanette Burstein 's luscious and enveloping portrait is based on interviews that Elizabeth Taylor did with the journalist Richard Meryman , starting in 1964 , for a book he was researching , and Taylor 's voice is singular in its expressiveness -- she is insolent , mournful , sexy , outraged , dripping with debauched delight , and always casually candid . Her words invest even the most familiar events with a revealing intimacy . " The Lost Tapes " shows us how Taylor 's life became a mythology , especially when her romance with Richard Burton got elevated into a global love story , as the two became the first celebrities to see their private lives played out in the new international mass media ( the idea of " paparazzi " literally came into being around them ) . The film is filled with astonishing clips of the private and public Liz , which cue you to see how expressive her beauty was , and what an array of moods she possessed . -- OG <h> Ennio <p> Image Credit : Venice International Film Festival <p> Ennio Morricone , the maestro of the movie soundtrack , gets the entrancing documentary he deserves . It 's a 156-minute portrait built around an extensive interview with Morricone , conducted when he was in his late 80s ( it also includes comments from a murderers ' row of filmmakers and artists ) . The film captures how he scaled his own wild peak , inventing his own kind of beauty , his own transcendent cacophony . Yet you would never have guessed it to look at him . He had the aura of a young professor , or maybe a tax accountant . And the more we hear his music , in all its fabulous and voluptuous eclecticism ( the swooning pop songs ; the spaghetti Western scores that sounded like ghostly Mexican rock ' n ' roll frontier acid trips ; the political-drama soundtracks for films like " The Battle of Algiers " that were as charged-up as the revolutions they were about ; the transcendent romanticism that infused his beloved later work ) , the more we have the same thought : Where did it come from ? " Ennio " devotes itself to Morricone 's music , but it 's also a study of his mischievously self-serious personality . He was channeling something , maybe nothing less than the mystery of cinema . -- OG <h> Eno <p> Image Credit : Courtesy Sundance Film Festival <p> Gary Hustwit 's groundbreaking film uses generative software to reorder itself with each viewing . Hustwit fills in the legend of Brian Eno , the **39;3171;TOOLONG , by echoing the spirit of his art in the film 's very form . Eno started out , in Roxy Music , as a delicate sci-fi gamine , a glam geek in thrift-shop drag . As he began to create his solo albums , he held onto his image as pop 's harlequin eccentric , a mystique that carried over to his fabled work as a producer with Davie Bowie , Talking Heads , Devo , U2 , and Coldplay . As a documentary , " Eno " is sleek , seamless , and compelling , though one of the reasons it feels that way is that Hustwit , drawing on 500 hours of film and video from Eno 's personal archives , has made a movie that 's all Brian Eno . As a talking head , he turns out to be a brainy but also funny and grounded middle-class British chap with great stories to tell . The film uses his observations to fuse his present and past in a way that accentuates their musical and spiritual continuity . -- OG <h> Ernest Cole : Lost and Found <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Cannes Film Festival <p> Raoul Peck 's haunting film rediscovers the fearless South African photographer who showed the world what apartheid looked like -- what it was -- in his 1967 book " House of Bondage . " But after moving to New York City , he became a ghost . Cole 's photographs take up the entire film , and they 're a revelation to revel in . His street scenes are v ? rit ? dioramas , psychological portraits of life inside a caste system . He caught the underlying violence of apartheid , and that made him a celebrated figure . But wandering through New York with his camera , chronicling a freedom unlike anything he 'd ever known , it was n't a freedom he felt he could totally join . The movie chronicles his descent , but it also turns into a detective thriller , as it follows the process of discovery when negatives of 60,000 of his photographs that had never been seen were found in three safety-deposit boxes in a bank vault in Stockholm . ( No one knows how they go there . ) Watching " Lost and Found , " you 're moved by a life that veered into tragedy , but by the end you feel the ghost is speaking to you . -- OG <h> The Greatest Night in Pop <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance Film Festival <p> A documentary for anyone who loves " We Are the World , " or even for those of us who look at that legendary charity single with some serious questions but are fascinated by the phenomenon of it . The movie puts us backstage at the into-the-night session that took place at A&amp;M Recording Studios in Los Angeles immediately after the American Music Awards on January 28 , 1985 . In a sense , " We Are the World " always was a documentary -- the famous music video that captured the song as it was being recorded , and was also a kind of **27;3212;TOOLONG psychodrama in miniature . And Bao Nguyen 's film allows us to revel in that vibe and extend it . With Lionel Richie as its chief nostalgist and tour guide , the film is certainly " celebratory , " but it 's also honestly assembled and intensely pleasurable . It pulls back the curtain on the perpetual smoke screen of music-god fame . -- OG <h> How to Come Alive with Norman Mailer <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Zeitgeist Films/Film Forum <p> Norman Mailer is the kind of writer people now tend to look at and appraise by saying , " He could never get away with that today . " He was feeding the fire of controversy and provocation 50 and 60 years ago , yet it was all part of his mission to make a difference in his time , to wake us all up . Jeff Zimbalist 's film captures the majesty of the Mailer experience , and its dark side too . It channels Mailer the writer , the celebrity , the failure , the boozing-and-drugging underworld-of-the- ' 50s searcher , the culture warrior , the literary comingler of fiction and reality , the filmmaker , the serial husband and paterfamilias , the talk-show firebrand , the self-dramatizing hoodlum who stabbed his wife ... and the obsessive artist who wrote sentences so lyrical in their perception that they could change your imagination . The film looks at Mailer with a supreme fusion of understanding and critical wisdom . -- OG <h> Look Into My Eyes <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance <p> Director Lana Wilson meets a diverse group of New York City psychics and clairvoyants , perceiving them closely enough that believing them is beside the point . The result is a funny , compassionate portrait that 's most interested in how these allegedly second-sighted folk function on an everyday basis , and what drives ordinary people of different persuasions to seek out their services . The seven psychics Wilson has assembled to interview and observe are a diverse group -- four of them women , three men ; four people of color , three white -- with an equally varied range of approaches to their calling , from New Age-y solemnity to fairground-style showmanship and sparkle . The film walks a deft line between the ironic and the honestly receptive : Hardline skeptics will be entertained , others peculiarly affected . Yet you need n't have a firm stance on the afterlife and its accessibility to be tickled by a pet medium bragging that she could diagnose a cat 's urinary tract infection through sheer telepathy . Wilson 's film suggests that communing with the dead may just be a roundabout way of reaching the living . -- GL <h> Martha <p> Image Credit : Getty Images <p> R.J. Cutler 's terrific film taps into everything we love , and do n't , about Martha Stewart . It takes us through her rise and fall and rise , a transfixing saga enhanced by Cutler 's ongoing meditation on The Meaning of Martha . The film captures how Stewart 's penetration into American culture seems , in hindsight , as inevitable as it was unlikely . It traces how she started off as a model , then became a New York stockbroker , then moved with her publishing-magnate husband to Westport , Conn. , where they bought a fixer-upper , Turkey Hill Farm , whose fixing up , by Martha ( she hand-painted the entire house while listening to the Watergate hearings ) , became the prototype for her brand of obsessively tasteful " perfection . " The movie shows us that Stewart had a vision , which turned her into the first self-made woman billionaire in America . Yet what she created and marketed was the idea of a high-powered homemaker for women who no longer wanted to be homemakers . She showed you all the good things you could aspire to , but she helped establish the aspirational culture of the 21st century as a certain unattainable proxy dream thing . In a way , she put a turkey in puff pastry so you did n't have to . -- OG <h> Nocturnes <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Grasshopper Film <p> A hypnotic documentary about moths , one that unfolds to reveal vital climate-change concerns . In northeastern India , scientist Mangi Mungee and her indigenous assistant partake in the nightly ritual of suspending a cloth sheet and illuminating it with the bright lights in the middle of a forest . Slowly but surely , hundreds of moths flock to this makeshift station , so that Mansi can observe , photograph , and eventually measure them . Fluttering wings and the echoes of trilling insects make up much of the serene soundscape , as the movie observes the moths from a distance but also creates aesthetic connections between their lives and ours , in ways we need to lean forward to observe and understand . -- Siddhant Adlakha <h> No Other Land <p> Image Credit : Courtesy Berlinale <p> A frank , devastating protest against Israel 's West Bank occupation . The young Palestinian lawyer and activist Basel Adra is a resident of Masafer Yatta , a network of Palestinian villages in the Southern Hebron Hills , recently subject to an aggressive campaign of demolition and forced transfer by the Israeli army . As his community is literally bulldozed before his eyes , Adra has little scope to do anything but keep his camera on . " I have nothing else , only my phone , " he despairs . That , thankfully , is not nothing . In this shattering documentary , Adra 's witnessing becomes ours . The film presents horrifying footage with candid sangfroid , contributing little commentary where the images speak for themselves . " No Other Land " might be called timely , though through its years-spanning depiction of both the mortal danger and mental strain of living under occupation , it underlines a situation that has been at crisis point for a long time . The filmmaking is tight and considered , with nimble editing ( by Adra and his co-directors , Yuval Abraham , Hamdan Ballal , and Rachel Szor ) that captures the sense of time at once passing and looping back on itself . -- GL <h> Plastic People <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of SXSW <p> An essential examination of how plastic is literally invading us all . We 've long known that it 's bad for the environment , but Ben Addelman and Ziya Tong 's movie documents what it 's doing to our bodies . The film focuses in on the issue of how microplastics -- plastic particles that are less than 5mm in length , though the key ones may be microscopic -- have invaded our food , our water , our air , and ourselves , toxifying us from within . ( It presents powerful evidence that plastic is a major contributor to rising infertility levels . ) It also offers a fascinating history of how plastic evolved in the 20th century and gradually took over , with Big Oil and Big Plastic now joined at the hip . In its way , " Plastic People " is a cautionary horror movie . It could have been called " Attack of the Killer Polymers . " -- OG <h> Skywalkers : A Love Story <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance Film Festival <p> Jeff Zimbalist 's extraordinary film about rooftoppers , who scale the tallest skyscrapers in the world and then climb onto the splindly curved spires that shoot out the tops of those buildings , is a vertigo-inducing spellbinder . But it 's also a profound story of love and trust and dread and transcendence in an age when romantic entanglement has become a daredevil sport . The film provides the kind of high on getting high that " Free Solo " and " The Dawn Wall " did , though this one conjures even more of a " Whoa " factor , as it follows two rooftoppers from Moscow , Vanya Beerkus and Angela Nikolau , who are drawn together by their impulse to elevate risk into a kind of controlled madness . By the time they 're scaling the Merdeka 188 in Kualua Lumpur , Malaysia ( if they 're caught they 'll go to prison ) , all to stage a feat in which Vanya will stand atop a girder and hold Angela up to the sky , the film has elevated " Do n't try this at home " to a new level of awesome . -- OG <h> Soundtrack to a Coup d'Etat <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Zap-O-Matik <p> Telling the story of the Congolese leader Patrick Lumumba , who was assassinated in 1961 , and juxtaposing that political scandal -- it has long been alleged that the CIA was involved -- with a musical tour by Louis Armstrong and the expansion of the UN after many African countries declared independence in the 1960s , might seem to be a tall order . But the writer-director Johan Grimonprez brings it all off with astonishing success . This is politics as grand spectacle and ironic comedy : an entertaining and instructive documentary that masterfully explains a complicated historical moment . The film shows us how a popular African leader was killed in a coup d'etat , so that colonial powers could keep profiting from his country 's mineral wealth . But it all plays out against the rhythms of American jazz , a counterpoint that reflects how the musicians were used by the State Department to deflect from Lumumba 's murder , but one that also allows the movie to ebb and flow in complicated ways , finding a rhythm all its own . -- Murtada Elfadl <h> Sugarcane <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Sundance Institute <p> It 's likely that many non-Indigenous people knew nothing about the abuse and disappearances of Native American children that occurred over decades in residential Indian schools throughout North America -- at least , until those outages inspired a wrenching subplot on the Taylor Sheridan TV series " 1923 . " But the truth behind that fact-based fiction is even more shocking . " Sugarcane " is an enlightening , infuriating look at the horrors that were endemic at the now-shuttered St. Joseph 's Mission in British Columbia . The school was one of many state-supported institutions that dealt with " the Indian problem " by brainwashing children into forgoing their Native languages and customs and becoming acceptably assimilated . The movie details how students died while trying to escape , or by committing suicide , and we hear daunting tales of priests sexually abusing students . The survivors of St. Joseph 's dredge up memories they 've obviously long sought to suppress , and " Sugarcane " is the product of humane and insightful filmmakers who are determined to never let anyone forget . -- Joe Leydon <h> Super/Man : The Christopher Reeve Story <p> Christopher Reeve gave the greatest performance as a comic-book superhero in movie history . And it 's partly because Reeve was so indelible as Superman that what happened to him on May 27 , 1995 , felt so singular in its devastation . As everyone knows , Reeve was thrown from a horse during an equestrian competition and landed on his neck , which resulted in his being paralyzed from the shoulders down . " Super/Man " is a moving , wrenching , compellingly well-made documentary that inevitably ends up centering on Reeve 's accident and its aftermath . ( He died in 2004 . ) It was Reeve 's fate to spend the rest of his life using a wheelchair and a respirator , and there 's an extraordinary drama to how he recovered from the cataclysm , learning to breathe and talk and , more than that , rehabilitating his life force . We see , with aching honesty , how challenging his existence became ( just getting Reeve to the 1996 Oscars was a logistical feat ) . Yet we also see how the love of his wife Dana , his children , and his friends , like Robin Williams , gave him the strength to transcend . What happened to Reeve was a tragedy , but it 's one that became a parable . As " Super/Man " tells it , it begins with the thought " There but for the grace of God go I " and ends with " It 's a wonderful life . " -- OG <h> Taking Venice <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Zeitgeist Films <p> Amei Wallach 's highly enjoyable and revealing documentary is about a legendary uproar in the art world . The film chronicles what happened at the 1964 Venice Biennale , when the U.S. mounted a campaign of " cultural diplomacy " in the hopes that one of its own artists -- Robert Rauschenberg -- would win the grand prize . The U.S. wanted to use art as a proxy to assert its global dominance , and to fight the Cold War . Yet the event also marked a paradigm shift : the overthrow of Paris as the center of the art world , and the movement toward a new age in which New York and its freewheeling American stars ( Rauschenberg , Jasper Johns , Jackson Pollock , and Andy Warhol ) would now hold sway . ( The Harvey Weinstein Oscar machine of the ' 90s would have approved . ) " Taking Venice " captures the moment when the art world , in thrall to the electricity of the new Americans , changed its spots . You could say that the U.S. , at the Biennale , engaged in art-world propaganda . But another way to look at it is : Has there ever been a more righteous U.S. propaganda campaign ? We were backing the right horse , and for the right reason . It was the one with the most beauty . -- OG <h> Uncropped <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Greenwich Entertainment <p> An enticing portrait of James Hamilton that makes you wonder : Is he the greatest New York photographer ever ? D.W. Young 's documentary gets you hooked on the work of the legendary Village Voice and Harper 's Bazaar shutterbug , whose images are a miracle of spontaneous classicism . Hamilton 's black-and-white photographs -- in the documentary , we see hundreds of them -- have a burnished tactility , and a psychology so effortless that every one of them tells a story . He should have been far more famous -- a household name , like Weegee or Diane Arbus or Annie Liebovitz . Yet part of the fascination of " Uncropped " is that it shows you that Hamilton did n't run his career that way . He was and is that rare thing , a lifelong bohemian . In the documentary , we see him wandering through Washington Square Park , tall , with a shock of white hair , always with his camera . " Uncropped " takes us back to the world before publicists , when a photographer like Hamilton could hang out for hours in a hotel room with Duane Allman , capturing his dissolute hedonism , or with Alfred Hitchcock , who produced a grin for him unlike that seen in any other Hitchcock photograph . -- OG <h> Will &amp; Harper <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Netflix <p> Structured as an on-camera road trip between two longtime friends , fueled by laughs and tears and the occasional " Borat " -style stunt , " Will &amp; Harper " gives us a chance to meet the former " Saturday Night Live " writer Harper Steele , who befriended Will Ferrell when he first joined the show , believing in the crazy cut-up when others were still skeptical of his talent . Technically , Ferrell is meeting her for the first time too , since Steele spent the first six decades of her life as a man . After receiving a long , vulnerable coming-out email from Steele describing her decision to transition at 61 , Ferrell suggested that they travel the country together -- just Will and Harper and a decent-sized crew ( which manages to stay off-camera the whole way ) . Stretching from New York City to the Santa Monica Pier , with stops at redneck bars and diners and dirt track races , the physical journey gives the old friends a chance to catch up and talk through all aspects of Steele 's emotional journey . Struggling to recognize her own beauty in a society that often seems determined to deny her identity altogether , Steele brings the trans experience down to earth . And by accepting his fledgling gal pal on her own terms , Ferrell sets the best kind of example . We should all be so lucky as to have friends like these . -- Peter Debruge <h> Wise Guy : David Chase and the Sopranos <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Max <p> Overflowing with insight ; stuffed with revelatory interviews and anecdotes and archival footage ; as bursting with flavor as a baked ziti ; and as immersive , in its way , as the series itself , Alex Gibney 's two-hour-and-40-minute film is a sensationally artful and engrossing look at the greatest show in the history of television . It 's framed as a profile of the show 's visionary creator and showrunner , David Chase , who is interviewed by Gibney on a mock-up of the set of Dr. Melfi 's psychiatrist office , a joke/stunt that recedes into the background yet never loses its playful resonance , since it pings off the way that " The Sopranos , " for Chase , was a kind of therapy . For him , even talking about the show , analyzing its secret sauce , is offered up with a certain gnomic reticence . ( Within that , the disarmingly sincere and at times ruthlessly blunt Chase is actually something of an open book . ) The movie shows us how Chase got his shot language from ' 70s movies , and how James Gandolfini 's audition left the other actors in the dust the way Brando left the entire studio system in the dust . There was a child alive inside Tony Soprano that was central to what we responded to in him , and maybe that child was alive in Gandolfini as well . One of the documentary 's most haunting insights is how the entire series evolved in tandem with Gandolfini sinking into the life force of Tony 's darkness . " Wise Guy " is a thrilling testament to how " The Sopranos " changed television forever and , in doing so , changed us. -- OG <h> Zurawski v Texas <p> Image Credit : Courtesy of Hiddenlight Productions <p> An unflinching , cumulatively disquieting look at the fight over Texas 's newly restrictive abortion laws . It charts the legal battle that 's being waged against the state , which almost completely banned abortions on the heels of the Supreme Court 's overturning of Roe v. Wade , albeit with some exemptions for life-threatening conditions . But as the film 's directors , Maisie Crowe and Abbie Perrault , spell out , the exemption law is so ambiguous that doctors are left in the dark about whether they can legally provide abortions to their patients . At the center of the film is Molly Duane , the tireless Center for Reproductive Rights attorney whose multi-pronged lawsuit extends from local courtrooms to the Texas Supreme Court . We witness the traumas of patients who become Duane 's clients , notably lead plaintiff Amanda Zurawski , who nearly died when her water broke just 18 weeks into her pregnancy . ( Her doctors did n't perform the medically vital abortion she should have gotten , forcing her to wait until she became septic . ) With its insistence on prioritizing individual stories over cold talking points , the film , which counts Hillary and Chelsea Clinton and Jennifer Lawrence among its executive producers , powerfully argues that abortion access should n't be a left or right issue but a bipartisan matter . -- Tomris Laffly
