<h> In northern Gaza , trauma and terror engulf all <p> Los Altos , Calif. : The human suffering unfolding in northern Gaza is incomprehensible . Yehya Qasem , like many others , witnessed the horrors of Israeli airstrikes , with his family 's town of Jabaliya facing repeated invasions and attacks . Amid Israel 's ongoing siege and bombardment since Oct. 7 , Gaza 's northern region has seen thousands of civilians trapped under rubble , denied medical care and subjected to starvation . <p> Israel 's ground offensive , paired with airstrikes , has intensified in recent months , devastating Gaza 's infrastructure . Hospitals such as Kamal Adwan and Al-Awda struggle to treat the injured while lacking vital supplies . Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , who continues working despite being injured , describes the dire situation : " We do n't even have a single ambulance to transport the injured . " The ongoing siege prevents rescue teams from reaching survivors , leaving them without hope . <p> Meanwhile , families like that of Amal Almasri endure unimaginable trauma . After her home was bombed , Almasri was forced to give birth while struggling with severe malnutrition . The Israeli military then separated her from her husband , Yousef , under the guise of evacuating civilians . The family was torn apart , with Almasri and her children fleeing south while her husband was detained , later injured and used as a human shield . <p> Tragically , Ramez Abu Nasser lost his mother and two brothers in an airstrike on Nov. 4 . Trapped under rubble , he could only dig helplessly , his parents ' cries for help forever etched in his mind . The family 's suffering exemplifies the cruel and ongoing trauma faced by Gaza 's civilians . <p> The current actions of the Israeli military in northern Gaza constitute grave violations of international law . As the violence escalates , the world must demand an immediate end to these atrocities and hold those responsible , like Israel and the United States , fully accountable for these horrific war crimes . Jagjit Singh <h> Revealing subtext <p> Bronx : Your article on the Israeli attack on the Palestinian people in Gaza shows its bias by referring to Israelis held by Hamas as " hostages " and Palestinians held by Israel as " prisoners . " Once again , you fail as a newspaper . Richie Nagan <h> Plenty smart <p> Palm Coast , Fla. : To Voicer T.S . Fallani : You call us uneducated racists ( not ! ) , but we were smart enough to vote out the most corrupt , inept administration in the history of this country . Fallani sounds like the racist to me . D.A . Weinberg <h> Right back at you <p> Hicksville , L.I. : Once again , Voicer T.S . Fallani attempts to prove intellectual superiority by labeling all 77 million Trump voters stupid . She talked of being easily tricked -- this from a lefty who honestly believed President Biden was mentally capable during his tenure , when anybody with half a brain could see he was not . And who is the real bigot ? You come off as one of the most hateful , condescending individuals I have come across in the Voice of the People , and I have been a reader for more than 50 years . There is a reason your party got their butt whooped , and all you have to do is look in the mirror and see the reason . John Gelormino <h> Venue shopping <p> Bayside : Luigi Mangione 's smartest move to date was waiving extradition and facing state charges in New York . It 's a well-known fact that cop killers and mass murderers never face the death penalty here , so neither will he . If only we had politicians who stood up to these murderers and gave them what they deserved . Enjoy life in prison with all the luxuries it affords -- even free health care , no doubt better than what you had ! Karen Sabatini <h> Extradition entourage <p> Bradley Beach , N.J. : I just had to laugh viewing the picture of Luigi Mangione being extradited from Pennsylvania to New York . As a retired NYPD detective , even I would say that was overkill ! Why was the mayor there ? My partner and I performed many extraditions , some guys more dangerous than Luigi , with no fanfare . Just so ridiculous . Patrick Freeman <h> Too much ado <p> Hamden , Conn. : The CEO killer show was on full view on his transport from Pennsylvania . Cops with body armor and machine guns , helicopter rides to NYC , shameless photo ops with Mayor Adams walking behind the procession , exactly where he did n't belong . This murder suspect should have been shackled in a van for the ride to NYC and not treated like the star of the show . Shameless photo ops . Chris Lyons <h> Mixed messages <p> Flushing : What hypocrisy ! On the front page of the Dec. 19 edition is " More soldiers in subway , " yet on page 2 there is a photo op of Gov . Hochul with law enforcement and the MTA CEO in front of a huge sign saying , " Crime is down 42% " Query : If crime is down 42% , why the need for the National Guard in NYC 's subway system ? Martin Goldman <h> Fourth estate <p> Manhattan : S.E. Cupp has her dander up and rightfully so ( " The press must resist Trump 's bullying lawsuits , " column , Dec. 19 ) . Justice courses through my veins . I urge all newspapers , and especially their readers , to stand up strong for the freedom of the press . Newspapers have the lungs and the chops to hold politicians ' feet to the fire -- the politicians who are supposed to represent the will of the people . Newspapers shine their ready spotlight on bullying politicians , eviscerating the bully 's inherently flawed position . That light shines just as bright on do-nothing politicians . Newspapers enrich our lives . Freedom of the press is essential for true justice . Susan A. Stark <h> Pliant press <p> Hartsdale , N.Y. : S.E. Cupp makes a number of important points in her article about the U.S. press and its over-compliant " relationship " with incoming President Donald Trump . But it makes me wonder : Does the press have a backbone left or are they merely there to bend for MAGA and report the latest outrage thereof ? I have a suggestion : If Trump , as he says he will , pardons the Jan. 6 terrorists who attempted to interrupt the transfer of the president 's office , will the Daily News or any U.S. newspaper publish a complete list of all those convicted of crimes related to that effort ? After all , criminal convictions are a matter of public record , just like those lists of unclaimed funds we get in our paper . So , let 's see the reaction of our reputed-to-be " free press " when our new president frees a bunch of terrorists . Norman E. Gaines Jr . <h> Policy of polarization <p> Woodstock , N.Y. : To Voicer Ron Beaty : I have no idea where you got the idea that Drumpf has spurred depolarization , at least not in D.C. He successfully blocked the spending bill , much like he blocked the passage of a bipartisan border bill because it would give the Dems a win -- the country be damned -- and he was n't even the president-elect ! I certainly wish Drumpf was n't who he is , but as long as he 's in control , there wo n't be compromise because he will prevent it . Suzanne Hayes Kelly <h> Better , but barely <p> Scarborough , N.Y. : The Democrats will return to power not by their own merits , which are few and far between , but because of the relentless malfeasance of the Republicans , highlighted by Trump 's Klown Kabinet selections and his willingness to shut down the federal government . Thomas F. Comiskey <h> Anti-enforcement <p> Tomkins Cove , N.Y. : The Dec. 19 editorial , " IRS cuts make Uncle Sam lose money , " could just have been titled " Republicans want to defund the police . " After all , that 's what the IRS is -- in essence , the tax police who serve a valuable obligation to the citizenry . Congress has passed laws detailing what must be rendered unto Caesar ; the IRS ' mandate is to ensure Caesar gets his due . To allow corporations and billionaires to thwart what legitimately belongs to Caesar , i.e. U.S. citizens , is morally repugnant by underfunding their constitutional mandate . Doug Slotolowicz <h> Security breach <p> Fairfield , Conn. : People are going nuts over drones , yet elected a president who kept our nation 's top military secrets in a bathroom at a country club . Go figure . Stephen Johnson
