<h> Blinken : Hamas realizes ' cavalry not coming , ' should agree to a ceasefire and ' do it now ' <h> If Hamas truly cares about the Palestinian people , they will " they will say yes and do it now , " Blinken said . <p> US Secretary of State Antony Blinken holds a press conference , at the NATO 's headquarters in Brussels , Belgium December 4 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Johanna Geron ) <p> Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas " logically " could happen in a Thursday interview with Bloomberg . <p> " I say that with all of the caution that comes with that statement because we 've been very close before , " he told The Big Take on Thursday . <p> " But what 's changed is this : Hamas knows that the cavalry is not coming to the rescue , " Blinken continued . " For months and months , It hoped it would get a wider war with Hezbollah , with Iran , with Iranian-aligned groups , coming in and creating more problems from Israel on more fronts and helping Hamas endure . " <p> " We now know that that is not happening , they know it 's not happening , because of the very important work that was done with us and with others dealing with the unprecedented Iranian attacks on Israel , dealing with Hezbollah , so I think that 's concentrated minds among Hamas on the need to complete this deal , " the secretary of state added . <p> Blinken noted the difficulty in high-level negotiations and said that the deal " can still move in the other direction " but noted the efforts the US had taken to achieve these matters . US Secretary of State , Antony Blinken , in Israel to discuss furthering a ceasefire deal proposal , June 11 , 2024 ( credit : AVSHALOM SASSONI/MAARIV ) <h> Will they say yes ? <p> " The fundamental question right now is ' Is Hamas finally prepared to say yes ? ' " Blinken told The Big Take . " If it does , we get the hostages back . We get a ceasefire . We get an immediate , dramatic improvement in the lives of Palestinian children , women , and men who 've been caught in this horrible crossfire since October 7 of Hamas 's making . <p> " If they really purport to care about the Palestinian people , they will say yes and do it now . " <p> When asked about his regrets regarding humanitarian aid to Gaza , the chief diplomat said that the US had attempted to do several things daily since the onset of the Israel-Hamas war . <p> " First , to stand resolute with Israel to try to make sure that October 7 would never happen again , " he noted . " Second , to prevent this war from going wider , because if that happened , if other fronts opened up -- whether it was with Iran , whether it was with Hezbollah , these other groups -- more death , more destruction , and it would probably prolong what was going on in Gaza . Three , to do whatever we could to make sure that people in Gaza were getting the assistance they need , were getting the protections they need . <p> Blinken noted a " noticeable improvement " in aid , " but we 've seen that before , and then we 've seen it fall off . " <p> He noted the " unique " environment of Gaza because they are " trapped " there and said that Israel still had a responsibility to assist and protect those who need it . <p> " In most other conflicts , people -- they can become refugees , " Blinken noted . " That 's not a good thing , but it 's better than being caught in the middle of a hot war . And also , you have an enemy in the case of Hamas that 's fully enmeshed with the civilian population , living in and under buildings -- apartment buildings , schools , mosques , hospitals . " <p> " The best way to finally deal with the needs of the people would be to end the conflict , would be to get the ceasefire , to get the hostages home , " he said . " We 've been working very hard to make sure that as best we can , we actually start to implement plans for a better future for the region , or if we do n't have time to fully do that , to be able to hand them off -- not just getting the hostage and ceasefire deal , but having a clear plan for what follows , a day-after plan for Gaza so that there 's no vacuum that Hamas can refill . " <p> Blinken claimed that the Biden administration had done immense work to continue the Abraham Accords and wanted to see normalization between Isarel and Saudi Arabia next . The work is reportedly " ready to be handed over to the new administration , and hopefully , they 'll carry the ball forward . "
