<h> How the Far Right Reports on the Border <p> On assignment for Border Hawk News , Wid Lyman records a video of the border wall near Mt . Cristo Rey , in Sunland Park , New Mexico.Photographs by Paul Ratje for The New Yorker <p> A few days before the election , Wid Lyman , a reporter for Border Hawk News , a right-wing news site , drove to Mt . Cristo Rey , a hiking path on the outskirts of El Paso , Texas . He parked near a grouping of picnic tables and clipped a pair of gloves to the belt loops of his tactical pants . " This is our standard bring , " he said , zipping up his backpack . " We 've got some kind of medical , we 've got our waterproof pack , and our drone is in there , too . " The well-marked , two-mile trail up the mountain is a popular pilgrimage site on Good Friday ; at other times , it 's favored by dog-walkers and early-morning exercisers . <p> The area has also been used by groups of migrants crossing the border , and the guides and scouts helping them . They were who Lyman was hoping to find . Midway up the mountain , he stopped to survey crumpled plastic bottles in an arroyo : possible evidence , he believed , of human trafficking . " I 've seen this all across the entire border , this exact thing -- water and energy drinks , " he said . After about an hour , he reached the crest of the mountain , marked by a twenty-nine-foot limestone statue of Jesus Christ . A group of nursing students sat in a sliver of shade , talking about television shows . Below , the desert floor was bisected by the thin black line of the border wall . Lyman squatted to assemble the drone . It hovered for a moment , humming , before he sent it off to fly along the spine of the wall , careful not to let it veer into Mexico . He peered at the video screen , frowning . " Nothing today . No scouts , even , " he said apologetically . " It 's good for the country but bad for shock journalism . " <p> Lyman spends roughly half the year as a travelling physical therapist and the other half making videos for Border Hawk , a four-year-old site that posts aggregated news and original content about immigration . He 's part of a growing network of right-wing content creators -- filmmakers , podcasters , streamers , and self-styled citizen journalists -- who populate a media ecosystem that thrives on social media and has been crucial to Donald Trump 's rise . If your algorithmic feed is n't tuned to this type of thing , you might never come across Border Hawk 's posts , but plenty of people have : Lyman 's videos have been replayed on Fox News and cited by Trump and Kari Lake . His most widely shared video , which depicted a chaotic protest outside the White House against the invasion of Gaza , racked up tens of millions of views . <p> At a time when newsrooms are laying off staff and closing international bureaus , independent journalists are travelling to the Dari ? n Gap and camping out at the border wall , producing media that ranges from the benign to the propagandistic . <p> Border Hawk presents itself as a grassroots organization offering an honest view of the southern border . But the site is intimately entwined with a long-standing anti-immigrant movement that , until recently , was widely rejected . It was initially an offshoot of U.S. , Inc. , an umbrella organization founded by John Tanton , an ophthalmologist , environmentalist , and white nationalist who 's been called " the architect of the modern-day anti-immigrant movement . " ( Tanton died in 2019 . ) Border Hawk also shares contributors and staff with VDARE , a virulently anti-immigrant Web site founded by Peter Brimelow , who has described himself as a believer in " racial nationalism . " ( Brimelow suspended VDARE this year , after it claimed to be insolvent from paying fines incurred when he refused to comply with a subpoena from the New York attorney general , Letitia James . ) Border Hawk is a nonprofit , and can not endorse political parties or candidates , but the site has consistently depicted the border as out of control , and migrants as criminals and invaders . <p> Lyman watches a hillside near Mt . Cristo Rey where he has seen migrants cross the border . <p> I met Wid Lyman earlier this year , when we were both covering the murder trial of an Arizona rancher accused of shooting a migrant . ( The jury was unable to reach a verdict , and the prosecution declined to retry the rancher . ) We quickly figured out that we were on opposite ends of the ideological spectrum , but trials are long and dull and can make for unexpected temporary friendships . During the day , we 'd chat about which witnesses seemed evasive and find ourselves generally in agreement ; in the evenings , from my hotel room , I would watch him on Infowars , opining about the wide-open border . A few months after the trial , he agreed to let me tag along with him for a day as he drove around Texas and New Mexico , making videos for Border Hawk . <p> After our uneventful trip up the mountain , Lyman drove across the state line into New Mexico , a transition marked by a sudden proliferation of marijuana dispensaries . We passed by a casino-hotel complex where Lyman had slept on his first visit here , a few years ago . The hotel was nice , but it was within walking distance of the wall , so he does n't stay there anymore . " I would drive to the border wall two minutes away , and then I 'd drive back to the hotel . I was , like , ' Man , that 's too close , ' " he said . <p> As Lyman tells it , for most of his life he was more interested in sports than politics . He and his older brother , Dan , grew up in Amherst , where their father was a professor at the University of Massachusetts and their mother , Izzy , who also has a Ph.D. , was an evangelist for homeschooling . Wid speculated that the liberal environment of New England pushed his mother 's politics rightward . Whatever the reason , the Lymans have made fearmongering about immigrants into a family business . Izzy is the editor of " Victims of Illegal Immigration , " an essay collection with a lurid blood-splattered cover , published by Social Contract Press , another U.S. , Inc. project . Dan is the president and editor-in-chief of Border Hawk , as well as an occasional contributor to Infowars . In an interview with Peter Brimelow , the VDARE founder , posted on X earlier this year , Dan Lyman called ending birthright citizenship " a no-brainer " and warned of " the destruction of white America " by immigration . <p> Wid , who told me that he 's " more moderate " than other members of his family , got involved with border politics more recently . His work as a physical therapist dried up during the pandemic ; then , in September of 2021 , Izzy offered a suggestion . Thousands of Haitian migrants were camped out in squalid conditions under a bridge at the border in Del Rio , Texas . What if Lyman went down there , checked out what was going on , maybe made some videos ? <p> It was n't immediately clear that Wid would make it as a citizen journalist . He had no reporting or filming experience , and his Spanish is limited . " I was totally overwhelmed ; I had no idea what I was doing , " he said . On that first trip , he spent a day in Ciudad Acu ? a , Mexico , where he was surprised to see the industries that catered to , and sometimes exploited , migrants : reselling their discarded clothing ; providing protection that could resemble extortion . His posts , which he shared on his personal account , were a modest success . Soon , his brother enlisted him to work for Border Hawk , and he began travelling from his home , in Michigan , to Texas , Arizona , and California . <p> It was a fortuitous time to be making content about immigration . A year after Lyman 's first trip to Del Rio , Elon Musk -- who has posted about immigrants relentlessly , and often misleadingly -- bought Twitter ( now X ) . Right-wing creators who had once been banned were now promoted ; the site is Border Hawk 's " bread and butter , " Lyman told me . ( Dan Lyman declined to be interviewed about its operations . ) People all over the country were eager for information about what , exactly , was going on at the southern border , and they were increasingly turning to alternative sources to get it . <p> Lyman catches his drone after using it to film . <p> Trump sometimes acts as though he presided over an era of unprecedented calm at the U.S.-Mexico border . In fact , the number of migrant encounters with Border Patrol doubled during the first three years of his Administration . ( The number nearly doubled once more during the first three years of Joe Biden 's Presidency , although it has recently levelled off . ) People were on the move , fleeing violent regimes , climate disruption , and , later , pandemic-devastated economies . Information and misinformation about how to journey to the U.S. circulated on social media , and people for whom the trek might have once seemed prohibitively daunting decided to chance it . Migrant demographics were shifting , too -- there were proportionally fewer men and more women and children ; proportionally fewer people from Central America and more from Africa , Europe , and Asia ; fewer economic migrants and more asylum seekers . The Dari ? n Gap , a thick swath of jungle between Panama and Colombia , long considered impassable , became a migrant corridor -- a million people crossed through it between 2021 and 2024 , more than ten times as many as during the decade before . <p> It is well known and well supported that immigrants -- including those in the country illegally -- have lower arrest rates than native-born Americans ; that areas with a higher proportion of immigrants do not have higher crime rates ; and that immigrants are a crucial part of the U.S. economy , as , without steady inflows , the nation 's population would likely decline . But Congress had n't passed meaningful immigration reform in decades , and old systems were strained by new realities . Smuggling people across the border , once something of a mom-and-pop operation , increasingly came under the control of organized crime . Asylum seekers were given court dates years in the future ; case backlogs climbed to nearly three million last year . In U.S. border towns , systemic dysfunction manifested as disorder and , at times , as tragedy : migrants died of extreme heat while crossing Texas ranches , and dozens of children drowned in the Rio Grande . The number of high-speed car chases in Texas border counties rose sharply . Governor Greg Abbott , of Texas , began busing migrants to Democrat-run cities , where strained nonprofits struggled to help new arrivals get on their feet . When there were n't enough shelter beds , people slept on the streets . <p> Amid all of this , Border Hawk cultivated a growing audience for stories that blamed migrants themselves for the growing chaos . The site provided a steady stream of stories about crimes committed by migrants , and often elided distinctions between them : people who had been granted Temporary Protected Status ; asylum seekers who had applied to enter or remain in the country ; and people who had crossed illegally and attempted to elude Border Patrol were all lumped together as " illegals . " The stories were often suggestive , leaving plenty of room for the imagination to fill in the gaps . One of Lyman 's videos included footage of him walking through a drainage tunnel in El Paso . When Lyman appeared on Fox News , earlier this year , the host Laura Ingraham played the clip above a chyron that read " Illegals using drainage tunnels to cross border . " In his interview , Lyman mentioned " tons of evidence of traffic , " including " very small footprints . " But he also said that the tunnels , which are part of the city 's municipal infrastructure , do not cross the border , and Lyman told me that he did n't encounter anyone inside them . <p> As his work got more attention , Lyman heard from influencers and video-game streamers wanting to get in on the border-content boom . When he declined to let them film with him -- " The last thing I want is to be chaperoning some Zoomer , " he told me -- they 'd sometimes ask him where they could go to capture dramatic footage . Where were the caravans , the crowds surging through gaps in the wall ? They did n't seem to understand that such instances were few and far between . <p> Lyman operates his drone . <p> " Some days , this is how it goes , " Lyman said . We 'd been cruising the border for a few hours and the most suspicious thing we 'd seen was the trash in the arroyo . Earlier in the year , Biden had enacted strict policies effectively banning asylum between ports of entry , and Mexico had ramped up enforcement . Since then , the number of crossings had declined significantly , Lyman allowed . After lunch , we drove back into Texas . Lyman , armed with an enormous iced coffee from Dunkin ' , seemed to be in better spirits . He thought that action might pick up around the Border Patrol 's afternoon shift change . We cruised along the wall for a couple of miles , then parked a few feet from the border . Some sections of the fence consisted of a line of thick metal bollards ; in others , it was a metal mesh . Every ten minutes or so , a Border Patrol vehicle drove by , and Lyman waved . The agents did n't always appreciate being filmed ; he told me that he sometimes had to politely but firmly remind them of his rights . <p> Lyman believed Border Hawk was filling a gap left by more established news organizations . As he saw it , the mainstream media had damaged its credibility by first obsessing over supposed Russian interference in the 2016 election and , later , by underplaying Biden 's cognitive decline . In Lyman 's search for non-compromised news sources , he 'd followed a few far-left accounts and sometimes appreciated what he learned there . ( " My understanding was when the Haitian people took over their country , they ruined it . They kicked the whites out , " he 'd told me , earlier that day . But he 'd recently learned , via the journalist Aaron Mate , that " the U.S. government to a certain degree caused this . " ) By and large , though , in Lyman 's view , conservatives were the new gonzo journalists , the ones sending back authentic reports from high-drama situations , disdainful of institutions and politically correct messaging . <p> Lyman granted that some independent journalists amplified prejudice to boost engagement . But he saw his videos as nonideological . " I try to just be factual . I would describe what I do as video reporting , not true journalism , " he told me . " We 're on the mountain . We see what we see . " <p> The border wall 's shadow lengthened as the sun dipped low ; the day was winding down , and we had n't seen much . Lyman jokingly peeked at my notebook . " Make sure to describe me as ' very fit , ' " he said . In the gap between the border fence 's bollards , he spied two figures walking away from the border wall , farther into Mexico . They were ant-size , and it was difficult to distinguish anything about them , but Lyman pegged them as scouts . " My best guess is they brought a group over , and now they 're going back , " he said . He launched the drone to try to get a better look at them , but he could n't find them on the video feed . Instead , he scrutinized a long rectangular building not far from the road . " I bet they keep people here , " he mused . " Like a stash house of some variety . " <p> When I checked Border Hawk 's Web site later that week , I saw a video of the drone footage that Lyman had shot that morning from the top of Mt . Cristo Rey . The post called it " Cartel Mountain " and " a hotbed for criminal activity and human smuggling . " The camera moved slowly , tracking the path of the border wall , backed by a haunting , ominous soundtrack . If you did n't read the text , the video was calm , and almost beautiful -- broad desert flats stretching between mountains . Somewhere just out of the frame , there was a statue of a man lifting his hands to the sky . ? <p> Border Patrol agents apprehend a group of men near Mt . Cristo Rey , in an area that has long been a busy corridor for human smuggling .
