<h> A race against time : Critically ill hostages believed to be the next released <h> With the intensification of hostage deal negotiations , mediators have focused on elderly and critically ill individual . <p> A woman casts a shadow as she walks past a banner calling for the release of the hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , December 5 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> As hopes rise for the return of the hostages , discussions focus on the " humanitarian list , " which prioritizes the release of those whose lives are at clear and immediate risk . After nearly 500 days in captivity , experts believe many hostages have been denied proper medical care , causing their health to deteriorate under harsh conditions . Their mental health is also severely impacted , further compromising their ability to survive . <p> Accounts from recently released hostages paint a grim picture of the physical and mental state of those still in captivity . The last known sign of life from Matan Tsangauker showed him visibly underweight , with injuries to his lips that suggest severe nutritional deficiencies . Alongside Matan , 99 other hostages remain in captivity , many with chronic illnesses requiring daily treatment . Without proper care , they are at immediate risk of death . <p> Prof. Hagai Levine , head of the health department for the Hostage Families Headquarters , told Maariv : " After 443 days in captivity , every hostage is a humanitarian case at immediate risk of death . The horrific conditions they endure have left them physically and mentally damaged , and we fear for their survival as winter sets in . All the hostages must be brought home in a deal -- those who are alive for rehabilitation and those who have perished for a dignified burial . " <p> These are the most critically ill hostages , listed by age , who are believed to be prioritized on the " humanitarian list " for release : Hamas released a video of three elderly male Israeli hostages pleading for their release . December 18 , 2023. ( credit : Screenshot/Hamas Telegram ) <h> Shlomo Mansour , 86 , Kibbutz Kissufim <p> The oldest hostage held captive , alongside Oded Lifshitz , Mansour suffers from conditions linked to aging , such as vitamin D deficiency , which increases the risk of life-threatening fractures . A prolonged lack of sunlight and movement further heightens the likelihood of falls and severe bone injuries . <h> Oded Lifshitz , 85 , Kibbutz Nir Oz <p> Lifshitz has preexisting respiratory and cardiovascular conditions that place him in immediate danger without proper care . Like Mansour , he faces heightened risks of osteoporosis and fractures due to extended captivity . <h> Gadi Moses , 79 , Kibbutz Nir Oz <p> Moses suffers from gastrointestinal , heart , and vascular diseases . He also requires hearing aids and glasses , and his sensory impairments significantly increase the risks of falls , isolation , depression , and cognitive decline , potentially leading to dementia . <h> Yosef Al-Ziadna , 53 , Rahat <p> Al-Ziadna , a minibus driver abducted along with his children -- who have since been released -- reportedly suffers from a life-threatening chronic illness that requires medication every few hours . Without it , he is in immediate danger . <h> Romi Gonen , 24 , Tel Aviv <p> Gonen was severely injured during the abduction , including gunshot wounds . Survivors report inadequate medical treatment for open wounds among hostages , leading to life-threatening infections . Gonen 's untreated injuries may result in permanent disability or worse . <h> Omer Shem Tov , 22 , Herzliya <p> Shem Tov , who has suffered from respiratory issues since birth , relies on inhalers and also has celiac disease , which requires a strict gluten-free diet . Any exposure to gluten triggers severe attacks , and repeated incidents can lead to irreversible intestinal damage , life-threatening inflammation , and even cancer . <h> Dire conditions for all hostages <p> All hostages face significant health risks from malnutrition , infections , respiratory issues caused by extended time in tunnels , and deteriorating vision and hearing . Severe psychological trauma adds another layer of danger . Experts stress that all hostages must be returned home immediately to prevent further loss of life .
