<p> CONCORD , N.H. ( AP ) -- A growing number of U.S. colleges and universities are advising international students to return to campus before President-elect Donald Trump is inaugurated , over concerns that he might impose travel bans like he did during his first administration . <p> More than a dozen schools have issued advisories , even though Trump 's plans remain uncertain . At some schools , the spring semester begins before Trump will take office , so students may have to be back in class anyway . But for anyone whose ability to stay in the United States depends on an academic visa , they say it 's best to reduce their risks and get back to campus before Jan. 20 . <p> Here 's a look at what Trump has said and done and how schools and students are preparing for his second term : <h> What did Trump do in the past ? <p> Trump issued an executive order in January 2017 banning travel to the U.S. by citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries -- Iraq , Syria , Iran , Sudan , Libya , Somalia and Yemen . Travelers from those nations were either barred from getting on their flights or detained at U.S. airports after they landed . They included students and faculty as well as business people , tourists and visitors to friends and family . <p> Trump later removed some countries and added others to the list -- 15 nations were affected at some point during his presidency . More than 40,000 people were ultimately refused visas because of the ban , according to the U.S. State Department . President Joe Biden rescinded the orders when he took office in 2021 . <h> How are students being affected ? <p> More than 1.1 million international students were enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities during the 2023-24 school year , according to Open Doors , a data project partially funded by the U.S. State Department . Students from India and China have accounted for more than half of all international students in the U.S. , and about 43,800 come from the 15 countries affected by Trump 's travel restrictions . <p> Jacky Li , a third-year environmental studies major at University of California , Berkeley , will be traveling home to China Dec. 21 and returning Jan. 16 . Though he made his plans months before Berkeley officials sent the advisory , he said worry is growing among international students . <p> " There 's a fear that this kind of restriction will enlarge into a wider community , considering the geopolitical tensions nowadays around the world , so the fear is definitely there , " said Li , who urged Trump to support , rather than thwart , important academic research . <p> " If the U.S. is really a champion of academic freedom , what you should do is not restrict this kind of communications between different countries of the world , " he said . <h> What might Trump do now ? <p> Trump 's transition team did not respond to questions on the topic this week , but in the past he has said he 'll revive the travel ban and expand it , pledging new " ideological screening " for non-U.S . citizens to bar " dangerous lunatics , haters , bigots and maniacs . " <p> " We are n't bringing in anyone from Gaza , Syria , Somalia , Yemen or Libya or anywhere else that threatens our security , " Trump said at an October 2023 campaign event in Iowa . <p> Trump also vowed to " revoke the student visas of radical anti-American and anti-Semitic foreigners at our colleges and universities " in response to campus protests . <h> What are schools telling students ? <p> A person rides a scooter , Tuesday , Dec. 17 , 2024 , near an entrance to Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge , Mass . ( AP Photo/Steven Senne ) <p> School officials have advised international students heading home for winter break to return before Inauguration Day and to prepare for possible delays at immigration control . <p> The list includes Ivy League universities such as Harvard and Brown , Boston schools such as Northeastern University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and other schools around the country , from Johns Hopkins University to the University of Southern California . Some offer classes that begin the day after Inauguration Day . <p> Cornell University told its students that a travel ban involving the 13 nations Trump previously targeted " is likely to go into effect soon after inauguration , " and that new countries could be added to the list , particularly China and India . It advised students , faculty and staff from those countries to return to campus before the semester starts Jan. 21 . <p> Other schools did n't go so far as to say a ban is likely but instead advised students to plan ahead and prepare for delays .
