<h> I am living my own Nakba <p> A Palestinian boy stands on the rubble of a house destroyed by the Israeli army in Khan Younis in the southern Gaza Strip on October 7 , 2024 File : Reuters/Mohammed Salem <p> My grandfather , Hamdi , was just eight when his family fled Bir al-Sabaa , a town in southern Palestine once known for its fertile land and agricultural life . His father , Abdelraouf , was a farmer who owned nearly 1,000 dunams of land and cultivated wheat , selling the harvest to merchants in Gaza . The family had a happy and comfortable life . <p> In October 1948 , several months after European-Zionist forces had proclaimed the creation of Israel , Israeli troops attacked Bir al-Sabaa , forcing thousands of Palestinians , including my grandfather 's family , to flee under the threat of being massacred . <p> " We fled Bir al-Sabaa when the militias arrived , " my grandfather often told me . " My father thought it would only be temporary . We left our home , land and animals behind , thinking we 'd return . But that never happened . " <p> Hamdi 's family fled on foot and by horse-drawn cart . What they thought would be a few weeks of displacement turned into permanent exile . Just like 700,000 other Palestinians , they were survivors of what we now call the Nakba . <p> Advertisement <p> Hamdi 's family found refuge in Gaza , where they stayed in temporary shelters and with extended family . Relatives helped them buy a small plot of land in the Tuffah neighbourhood of Gaza , just 70km ( 40 miles ) from their home in Bir al-Sabaa , which the Israelis renamed Beersheba . Hamdi 's family struggled to rebuild their life . <p> Seventy-five years after my grandfather 's experience of painful displacement , sorrow , and a struggle to survive , my family and I fell victim to the Nakba as well . <p> At 4am on October 13 , 2023 , my mother 's phone rang . We were all sleeping in one room of our home in the Remal neighbourhood of Gaza City , trying to find comfort from the relentless sound of drones and warplanes overhead . The phone woke us all up . <p> It was a prerecorded message from the Israeli military warning us that our home was in a danger zone , and we were being ordered to move south . Fear gripped us as we ran outside , only to see Israeli leaflets scattered everywhere with the same warning . We had no choice but to pack some clothes and some bedding and flee . <p> It was not the first time we had been forced to leave our home . Since I was 12 , I have experienced the horror of Israeli assaults on Gaza , which have repeatedly forced us to flee and live in fear and uncertainty . <p> Since I was 12 , I have learned to recognise the distinct sounds of bombs , F-16 jets , Apache helicopters and drones . I have known intimately the terror they bring . <p> Previous displacements were temporary , and we had hoped this one would be , too -- just like my grandfather believed that his family would eventually return . <p> Advertisement <p> But there is no return in sight now . Our home was badly damaged by an Israeli tank . The upper floor was burned , and a whole wall on the lower floor is missing . All our belongings were destroyed . <p> The handbag with some clothes I took on October 13 is all that remains of my possessions . <p> We headed to az-Zawayda in the central Gaza Strip to stay with relatives . Along the way , we saw thousands of other Palestinians dragging bags of clothes and searching for safety . <p> From our temporary shelter , I saw the pain of exile in the crowded corners of every room . We shared a flat with 47 other people , bound by the chilling fear that nowhere was safe . We spent two months in that crowded flat , near Salah al-Din Street . Ultimately , constant explosions forced us to relocate to another house in the area . <p> On January 5 , the sharp crack of sniper fire and gunshots intensified . Then came the thunderous blast of artillery and bombs . We gathered what little we had and fled to Deir el-Balah . <p> We were forced to live in an eight-person tent for three months before moving into a small , poorly insulated room on a plot of land owned by a friend . This is where we are spending the winter . Rain seeps through nylon windows , and the cold is unbearable , leaving us sleepless most nights . <p> We have struggled to secure the most basic of needs -- food and water . For the past two days , we were forced to survive on contaminated water and a single loaf of bread . Starvation has drained our strength and hope . <p> I now understand the Nakba of 1948 in a way I never did before . It is the story of my grandparents repeating within our generation , but within the confines of Gaza . And to be honest , it feels even worse than the Nakba of 1948 . The weapons used today are far more advanced , causing unprecedented destruction and mass death and injury -- something my grandparents could never have imagined in 1948 . <p> Advertisement <p> The pain is not just physical . It is also psychological . Witnessing the unthinkable -- the constant fear , the loss of loved ones , the struggle for basic survival -- has taken an enormous toll . During sleepless nights , the deafening roar of rockets and the memories of dismembered bodies and ruined homes haunt us . I look at the members of my family and I see how much their faces have changed ; their hollow eyes and silent tears speak volumes . When I walk in the street , I see communities known for their generosity and solidarity shattered by loss and destruction . <p> It 's clear that Israel 's goal is to force Palestinians out of historical Palestine by any means . The fear of being expelled from Gaza is overwhelming . With homes reduced to rubble and entire neighbourhoods wiped out , it feels like our exile may be imminent . I never imagined leaving my home , but after losing everything , Gaza no longer feels like a place to live -- only a graveyard of despair and loss . <p> There is no Palestinian that has not been affected by displacement , by the fear of losing the homeland forever . The Nakba is truly the unending story of Palestine . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
