<h> RCA students said that an Israeli flag was removed from a studio and thrown to the floor , despite that Palestinian flags and symbols were displayed nearby . <p> A person steps on a placard depicting an Israeli flag as demonstrators protest against Israel and in support of Palestinians , during a demonstration to mark 100 days since the start of the ongoing conflict between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas , in front of the Egypt Journalists Syn ( photo credit : AMR ABDALLAH DALSH / REUTERS ) <p> London 's Royal College of Art ( RCA ) has been accused of allowing its Jewish and Israeli students to suffer intimidation following an incident in which an Israeli flag was torn down while a Palestinian flag was left on display , TheTelegraph reported on Saturday . <p> RCA students said that an Israeli flag was removed from a studio and thrown to the floor despite the fact that Palestinian flags and symbols were displayed nearby . <p> Jewish and Israeli students stated that when they tried to express their feelings , they were " shouted down , told to shut up , and threatened . " <p> " The RCA must stop discrimination against and harassment of its Jewish and Israeli students , " Jonathan Turner , the chief executive of UK Lawyers for Israel ( UKLFI ) , told The Telegraph . " Hostility of other students is no excuse , especially when that hostility has been promoted by extremely biased anti-Israel lectures , which have very little , if any , connection with the RCA 's objects . " <p> " Freedom of expression should be protected at universities -- and it is unless it supports Israel , in which case it is increasingly suppressed , " Turner continued . " We have seen this development in disciplines ranging from international law to politics , history , and even to sciences and arts . " An assistant to the curator walks through the Royal College of Art 's annual ' Secret ' art exhibition in Battersea , south London March 11 , 2015 . Postcard sized artworks are sold at 55 GB pounds ( $83 ) each to raise money for young art students . ( credit : REUTERS/PETER NICHOLLS ) <p> " For visual arts students , images are particularly important . So at the Royal College of Art , emblems of Palestine are sacrosanct , while flags of Israel are torn down and Jewish students are told to shut up . " <p> UKLFI wrote a letter to the RCA president and vice-chancellor , Professor Christoph Linder , asking him to address the issue . <p> The letter referenced an incident where a staff member insisted that a student explain his ethnicity and how he qualified as an Israeli . <p> The staff member reportedly said it was questionable that the student 's mother was Jewish . <p> UKFLI reported that many students complained about a number of lectures in which Israel was accused of committing genocide in Gaza . <p> " Lectures such as this promote an extremely hostile atmosphere for Jewish and Israeli students , contributing to events such as those described above , " UKLFI said . <h> Discrimination <p> UKLFI explained that under the Equality Act 2010 , Jews , Israelis , and Zionists have protected characteristics of ethnicity , religion , and/or belief . <p> Banning Israeli flags or items relating to the ethnic identity of Jews but not doing the same for other ethnicities constitutes discrimination , it said . <p> The RCA noted that it acknowledges the IHRA working definition of antisemitism . <p> " The RCA has a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of unlawful discrimination and harassment , whilst also being committed to ensuring freedom of speech and expression within the law , " an RCA spokesperson said . " Although we can not comment on individual cases , we can confirm that we treat any complaints of discrimination or harassment raised by our staff and students extremely seriously and these are fully investigated under our proper procedures . We can also confirm we have no policy that would have a discriminatory impact on students displaying flags or other items related to their national ethnic identity . '
