<h> MIDDLE ISRAEL : After this war 's fighters return from the front , they will produce a new political leadership that will salute , reward , and reconcile those who serve , contribute , and sacrifice . <p> GERMANS TAKE part in a counter-protest against a right-wing demonstration in Berlin , on December 14. ( photo credit : Christian Mang/Reuters ) <p> Like a pod of beached whales , the four democratic powers ' leaders committed political suicide one after the other , raising questions about the ailments , and longevity , of the free world . <p> This week , German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called a no-confidence vote in his own government , thus triggering a snap election in which he is expected to be trounced . <p> That was five months after US President Joe Biden imposed on the Democratic Party a successor who soon led it to decisive defeat . One month before that , French President Emmanuel Macron called a snap election that produced a parliament of extremists from both Right and Left that soon unseated the Fifth Republic 's shortest-serving prime minister , its fourth in one year . <p> And hardly three weeks before Macron 's reckless gamble , British prime minister Rishi Sunak called a snap election in which his party , the Tories , was handed its worst-ever defeat . <p> Underlying these different settings was one ailment that plagues most of the free world , including Israel : The political Center is under attack , and losing . <p> French President Emmanuel Macron gestures as he speaks during an international humanitarian conference for civilians in Gaza , at the Elysee Presidential Palace , in Paris , France , on November 9 , 2023. ( credit : LUDOVIC MARIN/POOL VIA REUTERS ) THE BRITISH Center was shaken by the 2016 Brexit referendum . Having been decided by a narrow , 51.9% majority , the poll both reflected and deepened the political Center 's cracks . Suddenly confused , Britain 's democracy then appointed six prime ministers in eight years . <p> The British did ultimately pass power from the Tories to Labour and thus kept intact their historic political Center , at least nominally . That 's not what happened in France , where the historic Center 's two halves have been floored by radicals from the political spectrum 's opposite ends . <p> Being the agents of chaos that they are , the ultra-nationalist Marine Le Pen and the neo-Marxist Jean-Luc Melenchon joined hands to derail France 's budget and force prime minister Michel Barnier 's departure . The populist energy at play is such that whatever happens next , there is no chance France 's stagnant economy will get the painful medications its ailments demand . <p> The German situation is not quite as chaotic , but the Center-Left 's failure to produce stability since its succession three years ago of the Center-Right is clearly about something larger than the natural transfer of power between the political Center 's rival halves . Underlying this political degeneration is the ascendant Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) , the far-right party that is steadily emerging as Germany 's second-largest political force . <p> Postwar Germany 's economic miracle is fading . Caught unprepared by Chinese competition 's cheap labor and steadily improving quality , Germany 's fabled auto industry is now laying off tens of thousands of workers . That makes many Germans feel profoundly insecure , but even more unsettling is recent years ' influx of immigrants , including some one million Syrian refugees last decade and a similar wave of Ukrainians this decade . <p> Immigration , and other challenges to identity , whether real or perceived , are also what fed the Brexit vote and the French Center 's collapse . Donald Trump 's zenith is similarly fed by fear of immigrants , as well as suspicion of the outer world , and disdain for the elites ' alleged plot to deprive the masses of their identity , security , and wealth . <p> Now , as Trump 's second term approaches , no one knows what he has in store for American democracy and how that will radiate across the free world . Chances are that what happened so far on both sides of the Atlantic , from Brexit to the storming of the Capitol , will have been but a prelude to much more dramatic events that will test the free world 's moral convictions and political will . <h> The crisis of the Israeli Center <p> In Israel , the Center 's political will , though embattled , is intact and set to resurge . <p> ON THE face of it , the crisis of the Israeli Center is part of the crisis of Western democracy : <p> National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir 's Otzma Yehudit is the local version of Germany 's AfD ; his vote Monday against his own government 's budget is a version of what Le Pen just did in France , and Likud 's war on the judiciary is a version of Trump 's saber dance with his own country 's courts . <p> Well , that 's all true , but the Israeli Center 's crisis is different . <p> First , Israel 's economy is not structurally ill . The sources of Israel 's wealth , from technology and farming to tourism and gas , are not threatened by China or any other cheap-labor competitor . That is why the shekel endured very expensive war costs , and in fact appreciated more than 5% , from 3.85 to the dollar when the war broke out to 3.59 this week . <p> Second , Israel does not have an immigration crisis because the immigrants it absorbs are mostly Jews and their relations . <p> Third , Israel has a broad consensus . The politicians that sprawl between Avigdor Liberman on the Right and Yair Golan on the Left , and between opposition leader Yair Lapid and Defense Minister Israel Katz , actually agree on most crucial issues and have also worked well together in the past . <p> Fourth , the people in the field share even more , as the past 14 months have made plain . Unlike American and European citizenries , who have not fought together for anything since 1945 , Israel 's citizens sure have -- vastly and intensely . <p> Indeed , the Israeli Center is challenged not by any social undercurrent but by one man , a leader who struck a pact with those who defy the consensus by shunning everyone else 's war and seeking to etch their draft dodging in constitutional stone . <p> This , and this only , is what challenges the Israeli Center , and it can only last that long . Ultimately , after this war 's fighters return from the front and digest what they have been made to endure , they will produce a new political leadership , one that will salute , reward , and reconcile those who serve , contribute , and sacrifice -- and sideline those who do n't . <p> As for Germany , France , America , and the rest of the West 's ailing democracies -- God help them . <p> www.MiddleIsrael.net <p> The writer , a Hartman Institute fellow , is the author of the bestselling Mitzad Ha'ivelet Ha'yehudi ( The Jewish March of Folly , Yediot Sefarim , 2019 ) , a revisionist history of the Jewish people 's political leadership .
