<p> Sonnenfeld is the Lester Crown Professor of Leadership Practice and President of the Yale Chief Executive Leadership Institute . He has been an informal advisor to five U.S. Presidents and assisted Jared Kushner in the 2019 Peace through Prosperity conference in Bahrain , which outlined the Abraham Accords and a global investment fund to lift the Palestinian and neighboring Arab state economies , and fund a $5 billion transportation corridor to connect the West Bank and Gaza . <p> I 've hosted Yale CEO Summits before -- but few have taken place in such fraught circumstances as our most recent 150th Yale CEO Summit this week or with such remarkable results . <p> The day after Luigi Mangione was indicted for murder , 200 top American CEOs came together , under heavily armed protection , in a bold statement of defiance of the populist fringes , not frightened away or intimidated for standing up for leadership and American character . They gathered at the Ziegfield Ballroom in New York , 32 steps away from where UnitedHealth CEO Brian Thompson was murdered in broad daylight by Mangione . <p> Despite warnings from their boards and from their own security teams not to attend public CEO gatherings right now , they came . Not even far-left protesters chanting for their assassination outside our venue could keep these CEOs away , nor could the " wanted " posters or the " playing cards " with their faces on them circulating on social media . <p> But even beyond the symbolism of CEOs coming together steps away from where Thompson was murdered , this CEO Summit took place against the backdrop of President-elect Trump 's return to office . Most CEOs of the nation 's largest companies did not support Trump 's candidacy , with only one Fortune 100 CEO having donated to Trump ; nevertheless , CEOs rightly understand that the election is over -- and that it is time to unify and come together , because it is in the interests of the American public as well as their own shareholders and stakeholders , to help President Trump be as successful as he can be . <p> Despite criticisms from the far left , CEOs , including those from positions across the ideological spectrum , view it as their patriotic duty to meet with Trump now , engage constructively , and help steer presidential policies in useful directions , especially given their own mixed reaction to some of Trump 's policy proposals . <p> In particular , following a spirited discussion with including some who had just met Trump at Mar-a-Lago , 69% of these CEOs surveyed believe that Trump 's nomination of RFK Jr . to oversee Health &amp; Human Services could pose a threat to public health and the pharmaceutical business , and expressed a desire to help inform the president-elect about how the pharma industry has improved public health and extended the average lifespan of American citizens to record levels . <p> At the same time , 56% of CEOs surveyed believe that Trump 's proposed tax cut from 21% to 15% will encourage greater reshoring and domestic manufacturing activity , and 53% of CEOs surveyed expressed support for Trump 's use of tariffs as a bargaining chip . <p> Paradoxically , though 53% of CEOs support Trump 's tariff threats , few CEOs are excited about the potential impact of Trump 's proposed tariffs on their own companies . Fifty-five percent of respondents answered that they are worried about the impact of Trump 's tariffs on their own company , compared to only 12% who answered that they are excited about the impact of tariffs on their company , and 34% who were indifferent . But at the same time , CEOs do n't seem to believe Trump will actually follow through on all his tariffs threats , as 64% of CEOs responded that they are not shifting supply chains yet in anticipation of any potential tariffs . <p> We were surprised by the number of issues which the group generally agreed on and the spirit of constructive candor and engagement embodied by the group and near-unanimous optimism for moving forward . Virtually all participants agreed on the continuing strength of the American economy , one of the best economies anyone has seen in their lifetimes -- with 77% of CEOs answering that they believe America 's best days are ahead of us . They also agreed that the CEOs visiting Mar-a-Lago are being responsible in pursuing the best interests of not only their own shareholders and the nation at large . <p> CEOs largely did the same in 2016 : though many did not support Trump in that campaign either , they were eager to help him , and the nation , as the incoming president . Many participants expressed the hope that Trump does not relapse into the divide-and-conquer bullying that drove business leaders away . The genuine leadership modeled by these CEOs , and the spirit of constructive , collaborative engagement across divisions captured at our recent Yale CEO Summit , reflects why American business leaders are still some of the most admired leaders across American society , no matter what extremist fringes may say . At a time when business leaders are increasingly under attack , CEOs , and American capitalism provide a compass of centrist , reasonable , genuine leadership , which ought to be a source of celebration and inspiration .
