<h> How a group of seventh grade pupils documented history at Kibbutz Sde Boker <h> " It felt like it was a historical moment to take part in this project . We are maybe the last generation to hear these stories told directly by the people who experienced them . " <p> By ANAV SILVERMAN PERETZ DECEMBER 21 , 2024 17:58 <p> David Ben-Gurion , his wife , Paula , and Golda Meir welcome future US president John F. Kennedy and his delegation to the Prime Minister 's Office in 1951. ( photo credit : FRITZ COHEN/GPO ) <p> When students are asked to carry out a research project at school , they often know what to expect -- read a Wikipedia article , visit a relevant website , and type up a PowerPoint presentation complete with accompanying photos and list of sources . But the pupils at Zin Elementary School in Midreshet Ben-Gurion were completely surprised by the directions given for the David Ben-Gurion research project they recently took part in . <p> The seventh graders were asked to carry out interviews with colleagues and kibbutz members of Sde Boker who knew David and Paula Ben-Gurion personally and record their responses for a radio program , that would then be edited by the pupils themselves . The final radio edit was actually picked up by BGU Radio , an on-demand Internet podcast network , founded and operated by Ben-Gurion University students at the Sde Boker campus . <p> " It felt like it was a historical moment to take part in this project . We are maybe the last generation of middle school pupils who will get to hear these stories told directly by the people who experienced them , " Maya Shoshani , 12 , said.On a recent Friday , Shoshani and her fellow classmates , together with their homeroom teachers , Shva Biton , Tal Mazgauker , and Tali Brunner , rode on their bicycles from Zin to Kibbutz Sde Boker , located about five kilometers away . " It was different from the typical school project because we got to hear things that we do n't hear every day from the people who lived history , " she added . <p> Shoshani and her group interviewed four veteran members of Kibbutz Sde Boker : Naava Bekrech , 84 ; Shmulik Melamed , 85 ; Elisha Zurgil , 79 ; and Ora Dat , 82 . Paula Ben-Gurion stands at the fence of the Ben-Gurion home in Tel Aviv in 1955. ( credit : HANS PINN/GPO ) <p> Dat worked as the kibbutz nurse and often treated Paula Ben-Gurion , as well as David . She shared with the seventh grade pupils many memories of kibbutz life alongside the Ben-Gurions . <p> " I visited the home of David and Paula quite frequently as a nurse , " said Dat , who would also drop by to chat with Paula , who was quite lonely on the kibbutz . " Any time there was a health concern or issue , I was called to check up on them . I can remember taking their blood pressure , " she said . <p> " Ben-Gurion was an honored guest at the weddings and brit milah ceremonies held in the kibbutz , " Dat told the pupils , showing them a photo of her own kibbutz wedding , with David Ben-Gurion in attendance . " He would insist on holding each baby during the brit ceremony , but at some point he became too frail to do this and I asked that he remain seated during the ceremonies , " she recalled . <p> " When I went to invite Ben-Gurion to our wedding in 1968 , it was two months after Paula had died , " Dat recounted . " He was very sad . I did n't know if he would even come to our wedding . But he attended and told us to have many children , " Dat said with a smile . <p> " It may have been the last wedding he attended on the kibbutz . We went on to have four kids , and today I have a grandson deployed in Gaza , " she added . <h> Arriving at the kibbutz <p> UPON RETIRING as prime minister , David Ben-Gurion and his wife moved from the heart of Tel Aviv to Kibbutz Sde Boker in 1953 and became full-fledged kibbutz members . At the time , David was 67 and Paula , 61 . ( In 1955 , Ben-Gurion would become defense minister , and later , again prime minister . He would officially retire from political life and go on to live in Sde Boker permanently in 1970 . ) The kibbutz had been established more than one year earlier , in May 1952 , and members did not even have running water or electricity . <p> According to kibbutz member Bekrech , who worked for many years as kibbutz secretary , when the Ben-Gurions first arrived in Sde Boker conditions were very different from today . <p> The kibbutzniks would have to travel to Yeroham by tractor to fill an empty tank with water , which they would transport back to the kibbutz . The water would last the kibbutz two to three days , and then the tank had to be refilled again in Yeroham . <p> " The first water pipe arrived in 1955 . The Ben-Gurions had arrived at the kibbutz when there was literally nothing but a few tents and huts in the middle of the desert , " Bekrech said . " The Ben-Gurions were the oldest couple on the kibbutz ; the rest of us were young , just getting married and starting our families . David wanted to work just like everyone else did at the time , " Bekrech said . " He wanted to be one of us . " <p> One of the initial goals of the founders was to establish a ranch filled with cows , sheep , goats , and horses . Only later on would the founders become part of the kibbutz movement . According to Bekrech , Ben-Gurion would go out with one of the members of the kibbutz to till the land in the nearby wadi , to make it viable for growing grass needed for the intended herd . <p> " At some point , Ben-Gurion was transferred to another job because the physical labor of tilling land was too much for him , " Bekrech explained . " It was n't work that was suitable for a senior citizen . Ben-Gurion went on to take care of the young kid goats , then on to the kibbutz 's meteorological station , until he finally settled into writing his memoirs and recording the Jewish state 's early history . " <p> The seventh graders were particularly interested in the going-ons of the kibbutz cafeteria . " Did Ben-Gurion eat with you ? " asked one pupil . <p> " He would eat lunch with us every day in the kibbutz cafeteria , " replied Bekrech . <p> " Even when heads of state from abroad and Israeli ministers would visit , Ben-Gurion would insist on having lunch with his important guests in the kibbutz dining hall , " noted Bekrech . " I remember when US president Dwight D. Eisenhower came to visit . " <p> During such VIP visits , Paula would bring fancy dinnerware from their home and a nice tablecloth for the cafeteria table on which heads of state would dine . Bekrech was quick to note that the important officials would eat the same food as the rest of the kibbutzniks , just not from the regular plastic dishes of the kibbutz dining hall . " When the Ben-Gurions had special visitors , Paula would ask the cooks in the kitchen to make pea soup because she thought it was delicious , " she added . <p> According to Bekrech and Dat , Paula was more involved in day-to-day life with the kibbutzniks than David Ben-Gurion . " Paula was bored here in the kibbutz . She chatted with us and would invite us into their home . She had a lot of humor and said exactly what she thought , " said Bekrech , whose husband , Rafi , was one of the founders of Sde Boker.For pupil Daphne Herrero Hanegbi , who lives in Kibbutz Sde Boker , the interview project was eye-opening . " One story that I really liked was that when Ben-Gurion was out walking , he once asked a kid who was playing outside what he wanted to be when he grew up . The kid responded that he wanted to be prime minister , just like Ben-Gurion . Ben-Gurion told him he could be anything he wanted -- just not prime minister . " <p> " I still ca n't understand why Ben-Gurion would say that , " she said . <p> " I feel like I know much more about Israel 's first prime minister than I ever did before , " she concluded . <p> IN ADDITION to the radio program created by the seventh grade , all the other grades at Zin , from first to eighth , focused on different elements of Israel 's first prime minister in art , healthy living , culture , political policy , and life as a kibbutz member , among other subjects . Led by the school principal , Orit Freiberg , and her dedicated staff , the pupils ' research and works were <p> on display in their student-made " museum " in time for David Ben-Gurion Day , which fell on December 8 this year.Dat and Bekrech went to see the pupils ' museum at Zin and were amazed with the time and research put in . " It 's heartwarming to see how much thought and effort the pupils put into learning about David Ben-Gurion . We were so pleased that we could contribute in some small way to this amazing project , " Dat told the Magazine . " I 'm glad that the pupils found Ben-Gurion so interesting . " ?
