<h> Share on Social Media <p> A new study from the USC Annenberg Norman Lear Center 's Media Impact Project revealed that Jewish representation on-screen still falls flat , leaning into detrimental stereotypes and highlighting only specific types of Jews . <p> Researchers from the Media Impact Project analyzed 108 Jewish characters across 49 episodes of 15 TV series that aired from 2021 to 2022 . They found that in scripted television Orthodox Jews are often othered , while Jewish people at large are painted in broad strokes as a monolith . <p> Out of the 15 series studied , they found 95% of Jewish people represented on screen were white -- only three characters were perceived as Black , one as Asian and one as Middle Eastern Asian . Additionally , Jews with intersectional identities , including queer representation and body diversity , were largely absent . <p> Antisemitism in America has become increasingly rampant since the Oct. 7 attacks last year and the Israeli military response that followed in Gaza . In late October , FBI director Christopher Wray warned that antisemitism in the U.S. was rising to " historic levels . " Just two months later , Wray reported a 60% increase in hate crime investigations after Oct. 7 . <p> Additionally , the USC study noted that there has been a 36% rise in antisemitic events from 2021 to 2022 and a 140% rise between 2022 and 2023 . <p> " With increasingly brazen attacks on Jews , a message from Hollywood that leans into Jewish joy and pride could be contagious and move off the screen to Jews and non-Jews alike , " Allison Josephs , founder and executive director of JITC Hollywood Bureau , said . <p> The Media Impact Project posited that with more positive , diverse representation of Judaism in film and television , the rate of antisemitic hate could slow . <p> " No community is a monolith , " Lear Center senior researcher Soraya Giaccardi said . " Our findings suggest there is a lot of room for more fully depicting the diversity of the Jewish community . " <p> The study noted several damaging stereotypes that recurred throughout television shows , even ones they studied from 2021 to 2022 : " The Nebbish Man " ( a nerdy , mama 's boy ) , " The Overbearing Jewish Mother " and " The Jewish American Princess ( JAP ) . " <p> " Nobody Wants This " creator Erin Foster received backlash on her show for depicting the parents as " overbearing . " Foster defended herself , stating that she was leaning on their immigrant background more than their Jewish identity for those character traits . <p> " That is why I do n't feel that the parents are stereotypes as much . Immigrant culture can be very insular and fearful of outsiders , and there 's a good reason for that , " Foster explained . " I wanted to play into that , because it 's an added layer of cultural differences between these two people . " <p> After analyzing 30 episodes that aired between 2019 and 2022 and explicitly mentioned Orthodox Judaism , researchers found that only half had an Orthodox character in a speaking role and over a third had no Orthodox characters at all , meaning Orthodox Jews are often talked about rather than having autonomy themselves . <p> Additionally , half of all episodes studied expressed negative judgments about Orthodox Judaism , placing a damaging image about a small population within the Jewish community . <p> The study recommended that to fix these underlying biases and microaggressions in Hollywood , industry professionals should specifically mind tropes that associate Jews with money and power , allow Orthodox characters to speak for themselves , elevate untold Jewish stories , lean into diversity and specificity in storytelling and give voice to Jewish pride and joy . <p> The USC study was independently conducted with funding from the advocacy organization JITC ( Jewish Institute for Television &amp; Cinema ) Hollywood Bureau , a division of Jew in the City . <h> Subscribe to Breaking News . <p> Tess joined TheWrap as the company 's first reporting fellow in 2024 . Tess is from Birmingham , Alabama and attended the University of Southern California , graduating with degrees in theatre and journalism . She also served as the executive editor for Annenberg Media , closely overseeing coverage of campus protests amidst the Israel-Hamas War . Tess also has worked in ...
