<p> A Polish minister said the country would comply with the International Criminal Court 's ( ICC ) arrest warrant against Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu if he attended a Holocaust Memorial Event at Auschwitz . <p> Anonymous Polish diplomats told the outlet that they could not be seen to impose a double standard on the value of ICC arrest warrants . " We hope that Vladimir Putin will finally appear before the ICC . That is why we must abide by the Tribunal 's decisions , " they said . <p> Israeli officials did not contact the Polish government about whether Netanyahu could attend the event , according to the outlet . Yitzhak Herzog , the President of Israel , will likely also not be at the ceremony . Israel may only be represented at the event by Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar despite Jews having been the majority of the victims at Auschwitz . <p> The ICC issued arrest warrants against Netanyahu and his then-Defense Minister Yoav Gallant back on Nov. 21 . The two were alleged to be responsible for " the war crime of starvation as a method of warfare ; and the crimes against humanity of murder , persecution , and other inhumane acts . " These allegations were in regard to the Israel-Hamas war in the Gaza Strip . <p> Israeli leaders have rejected these allegations . The country also disputes the jurisdiction of the court over its own citizens , the New York Sun reported . Israel is not a signatory to the Rome Statute , which established the ICC . However , Palestine is a member of the organization . The international court argued that the Gaza Strip , where Israeli forces are fighting a war against Hamas , is part of Palestine and therefore under their jurisdiction . <p> . ? @NewYorkSun ? my Friday column : even before Bibi said he 'd attend the 80th anniversary of Auschwitz liberation , Poland leaps to claim he 'd be arrested if comes to commemorate the killing of 1 million Jews at the death camp https : //t.co/FEpXmwQxhx <p> Alan Dershowitz , a renowned attorney , observed that the ICC 's warrants against Israel could create precedent used against the United States . " Remember , the United States refused to sign the treaty , the Rome Treaty , that established the International Criminal Court . Israel refused to sign the treaty . Where does an international court get the power , any power at all , over people who did n't sign on to a treaty ? It 's unthinkable , " he said . <p> Poland has been a member of NATO since 1999 , according to the international organization 's website . <h> What does Founders Club include ? <p> Readers , <p> Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America , The Daily Caller is fighting for you -- our readers . We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight . <p> Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and joining us daily , there are powerful forces lined up to stop us : the old guard of the news media hopes to marginalize us ; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business ; senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions ; the big tech platforms want to limit our ability to communicate with you ; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our independence . <p> We do n't complain -- we ca n't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it . We have a fight on our hands , and it 's intense . We need your help to smash through the big tech , big media and big government blockade . <p> We 're the insurgent outsiders for a reason : our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account . Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis . Even our insistence on having fun infuriates them -- because we wo n't bend the knee to political correctness . <p> One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America . We love her with every fiber of our being , and we think she 's worth saving from today 's craziness . <p> Help us save her . <p> A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train . We have trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political spectrum . Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN ? There 's a good chance they were trained at Daily Caller . Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News , Newsmax , Daily Wire and many others . <p> Simply put , America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a fair system . We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference . <p> Since 2010 , The Daily Caller has grown immensely . We 're in the halls of Congress . We 're in the Oval Office . And we 're in up to 20 million homes every single month . That 's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible to ignore . <p> We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us . This is an important mission but we ca n't do it unless you -- the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment -- have our back . <p> Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today , and help us keep doing work that holds politicians , corporations and other leaders accountable . Help us thumb our noses at political correctness . Help us train a new generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth . And help us remind Americans everywhere that there are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country 's greatness . <p> In return for membership , Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that we have long used to support our mission . We know the ads drive you crazy . They drive us crazy too . But we need revenue to keep the fight going . If you join us , we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent we earn into amplifying our voice , training even more solid reporters , and giving you the ad-free experience and lightning fast website you deserve . <p> Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content , newsletters , chats and live events with our reporters and editors . It 's simple : welcome us into your lives , and we 'll welcome you into ours .
