<h> With her American parents still held in Gaza , Iris Weinstein Haggai demands action , praising Trump 's bold stance and urging world leaders to follow suit . <p> By NATHAN KLABIN/THE MEDIA LINE DECEMBER 22 , 2024 22:13 <p> Judith and Gadi Hagai Weinstein. ( photo credit : Courtesy ) <p> " It 's not just a fight to return my parents -- it 's a fight to return my friends , my friends ' grandparents , my friends ' babies . " These are the words of Iris Weinstein Haggai , whose parents , Judi and Gadi Weinstein Haggai , were abducted from Kibbutz Nir Oz during Hamas 's brutal October 7 , 2023 , attack . Speaking with resolve , Iris shared with The Media Line her family 's ongoing nightmare and her efforts to advocate for the return of all hostages so all of Israel can start healing -- Jews , Muslims , and Christians alike . " We need them back -- this is the key to starting a new chapter . " <h> The interview <p> TML : Can you tell us about yourself and your family and about the possibility of a hostage deal ? How are you all feeling ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Well , I 'm from Kibbutz Nir Oz . So , you know , it 's not just a fight to return my parents -- it 's a fight to return my friends , my friends ' grandparents , my friends ' babies . It 's so much bigger than just the return of my parents . It 's an ongoing nightmare . <p> Today is day 438 . To us , it 's just one long day since October 7 , 2023 . My father 's birthday was two weeks ago , and I ca n't even describe what it 's like to have nothing but military intelligence regarding my parents . <p> For three months , we did n't know what had happened to them . I heard my mom 's recording with MADA Israel 's emergency medical services . She talks about terrorists shooting them while they were taking their early morning walk that day . She says they shot my dad , and he was probably dead , and they shot her , too . But aside from that , we knew nothing . <p> We expected my mom to come out during the November hostage deal . I even made new eyeglasses for her because we found her broken ones in the fields . Every day , I sat there waiting for her name in this torture of a reality show list game Hamas played . Every night , it was a no . <p> Eighty-three days later , we found out that they were both murdered that day and taken into Gaza . But we do n't have any forensic evidence . Your mind tricks you -- maybe the intelligence is wrong , perhaps she fainted and survived . Plus , Hamas released a photo of her in May , claiming she died from IDF fire , which we know is n't true . She died on October 7 . But still , we do n't have a grave . So , my father 's birthday came , and we had nowhere to go . We ca n't even start the mourning process . We 're just stuck -- psychologically and emotionally . <p> Israel is ready for a deal , and the whole Middle East is ready for this to end . It 's been too long . You know , my friends , we do n't even have proof of life for any of them . We do n't know what their status is . We 're hoping they will come back to us alive . But we do n't know . As far as my parents and the other , unfortunately , deceased hostages , they need to come home immediately . As Jews , we need that peaceful , restful burial for ourselves and also for them . <p> TML : You were in Singapore on October 7 . How did it play out for you , especially given the time difference ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : I was six hours ahead . My parents always took their morning walk . That morning , I saw the red alerts for their area , which , unfortunately , is n't unusual . I texted them , asking what was going on . I expected a nonchalant answer -- because we 've been bombed for 20 years . Instead , they told me they were lying face down in the fields and could see hundreds of rockets . I asked them to let me know when they got home , but they never did . <p> At 7:15 a.m. , I heard from someone in the kibbutz that there were terrorists . I knew logically that my parents could n't have made it home without encountering them . My mind was racing : kidnapped , dead , or hiding . That was my logic . I was the only family member to speak to them that morning . Even though there was nothing I could have done , my mind still says , ' What if I did this ? What if I did that ? ' I kind of used my logic to say , okay , there 's no way my parents made it back home without encountering the terrorists . So they 're either , I do n't know , kidnapped , dead or hiding . <p> It 's still just the magnitude of the atrocities that my community went through , that Israel 's going through , that the hostages are going through , like my friend , Arbel Yehud from the kibbutz , Shiri Bibas , and her beautiful children and husband . I do n't even want to say it out loud , but we 're all thinking : What 's happening to them ? <p> The magnitude is so great that you ca n't process the whole ordeal . But that day , we were just trying to find out what was happening . Ever since , I 've been in ' operation mode , ' meeting with the American administration and Canada , as my mom is also Canadian . <p> TML : You 've been very vocal in your advocacy efforts . Recently , you said you feel hope for the first time . Can you tell us more about that ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Yes . I actually have hope . You know , and this all comes down to what Trump did with his Truth Social post demanding the hostages be back by his inauguration , " Or all hell breaks loose . " My parents are American citizens , so we 've had constant meetings with the White House . Just last week , I was in Washington , meeting with US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Congressman Mike Waltz . <p> I told them I had hope for the first time since the last deal . And that 's because of what Trump posted . He repeated it again yesterday . That language made all the difference . If only world leaders had used that language on October 8 , 2023 , imagine the lives we could have saved -- hostages , Israelis , Palestinians , because they are pawns in these terrorist games . I ca n't even describe the difference that little thing made . So , I 'm very thankful to Trump for finally using the language that we have craved all this time . <p> TML : Would you say there 's a price too high to bring the hostages back ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : No price is too high . These are innocent civilians -- not combatants , not soldiers . The Israeli government is obligated to bring them home by any means necessary . Do you know why ? Because they had 20 years to fight what was next door to us . Instead , the Israeli government gave them Hamas money every month . And I 'm not saying this to bring the government down for doing that . <p> I 'm assuming it was happening because of international pressure . Also , there is the belief that maybe if we feed them money , they will invest in people and be quiet . But that 's not reality . These are terrorists . It 's in their charter to kill us all . And that 's just the reality . <p> So , you know , we can deal with that later with the help , thankfully , of President-elect Trump , who , you know , as I said , we met with his team last week , as well as the current administration . And they are very serious about fighting terrorism , about not negotiating with terrorists , about sanctioning the Islamic regime in Iran . <p> They 're earnest about everything that has to do with that , but as far as these hostages go , these are innocent hostages . They were not part of a battle . You know , they were not in a war . This was a cease-fire breach , and these people were lying in their beds on a holiday morning . The Israeli government is obligated to do everything it can to bring these citizens back home . They are obligated . I do n't care what the price is . This is their obligation . After that , they can deal with whatever is left . What can you do ? <p> Honestly , I do n't think right now that Hamas is in a position where they can demand all the things that I heard people were saying throughout this year about , you know , we 're not going to release these people . <p> You know what National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir said to this poor woman who was raped in captivity ? He said to her it 's either you or 10,000 Israeli women getting raped . But how about you deal with terrorism when it 's next door instead of waiting for it to happen ? <p> Israel is strong . The IDF is strong . I have complete faith in our security , but people were not doing their job . We need to investigate what happened on October 7 . Until then , we wo n't know what happened . But I do n't accept that point when people say the price is too high . No , the price is not too high . We have 100 citizens in Gaza . I do n't even know in what conditions . Inhumane is an understatement . We need to bring them back by any means necessary . That is certainly the first step . <p> TML : Has this ordeal changed you ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Yes . I always talk about life before October 7 and after . I think I always was a Zionist . I always loved Israel . I was connected to the land but not to what was going on in Israel . I felt foreign because I felt like the fundamental values of Israel were a little bit lost . I felt a little tired of fighting every day to have a family , you know , to let my kids grow safely . <p> We still find it unfair to live there with the amount of tax being paid and not even feel protected . I do n't care about paying taxes , but I felt like I was being bombed every day and that the issue was n't even being dealt with . We were the victims of that , so why was I paying the government ? Why have these people , who are supposed to lead the country and make my life safe , failed ? Why are they not doing that ? So , that 's the only reason basically that I left . <p> I never used to live abroad . I never felt like a ' Hasbara person ' advocate for Israel . I had a lot of criticism for the Israeli government , as I do to all governments , but I never felt like a Hasbara person , like an advocate . I was just living my life . But since October 7 , you know , I noticed how crazy everything is . And you know , the information warfare , again , that 's absolutely ridiculous . But for some reason , it 's so easy for people in the world to believe it . <p> Let 's say I was n't innocent before . But after October 7 , my innocence completely disappeared . The people who lived in my kibbutz were the first in line to advocate for peace and a two-state solution . And I 'm not saying I 'm not advocating for peace anymore . I just know that specific steps need to be taken before we get to that point , which is not living next to terrorists that would help . <p> I 've also realized this is n't just an Israeli fight -- it 's a global fight . Terrorism is a threat to every democracy . <p> I love Israel . And my sister still lives there . My brother still lives there , and , of course , my community . It was also a family . It 's only a 400-people community . I want my kids to grow up in Israel . I know every rock in that place Kibbutz Nir Oz , every , you know , street , every house . Right now , they 're starting to tear down some houses because more than 50% of the houses were burnt down , some with my friends inside them , unfortunately . But , you know , it 's just my heart is there all the time , all the time . <p> TML : Iris , your voice and strength are incredible . Do you have a message for world leaders ? <p> Iris Weinstein Haggai : Yes . All world leaders should follow President-elect Trump and demand the unconditional , immediate release of all hostages . This is a humanitarian issue and should have been resolved a year ago . This is according to every humanitarian law in the UN to secure the release of these innocent hostages but also to secure world security . We ca n't let terrorism win . <p> We ca n't show them that we stand by them . It 's not a value that democracies believe in , and we can not stand by . At the same time , these innocent hostages are getting raped , executed , tortured , and starved while these Hamas leaders are in hotels sipping on their champagne . As far as the Gazans , I am actually in contact with a few people who know many people in Gaza , and they are starting to speak out against Hamas , finally . <p> So I think the world should listen to them , for crying out , you know , release them from Hamas . It 's not just an empty statement . They are tired of this . <p> They 've been living in these conditions for 438 days , you know , with Hamas not even caring about their own people . So maybe it 's time to listen to people in Gaza instead of the antisemitic , terror-supporting people in the streets of New York and London . And , you know , in order for the region to start rehabilitating , to think about peace , we need to release the hostages and think ahead towards a better Middle East . <p> TML : Do you have a message to the people of Gaza ? <p> To the people in Gaza : speak out against Hamas . Release yourselves from their grip . They do n't care about you -- they 're using you as pawns . We need the hostages home to start a new chapter , rehabilitate the region , and work toward a better future . <p> We 're also Canadians . So also with Canada , I 've been working with Irwin Cotler and the Wallenberg Center for Human Rights , trying to influence sanctions and other ways to kind of , you know , deter these terrorists , stop them from doing everything they 're doing . I mean , Hamas is still paying their terrorists , you know , salaries . <p> How can that be ? The fact that there are indictments against Hamas leaders , and they were kicked out from Qatar to be welcomed into Turkey as guests and not in handcuffs . It 's outrageous . It 's outrageous . So , you know , we 've been trying to do everything we can , including lawsuits , to make sure this never happens again and to choke them from their funds in any way they can rehabilitate , honestly , because they are at their weakest point . <p> We are fortunate to have Israel as a state of the Jewish people . Jews and many others live there , and it 's the only Jewish state . We need that state to survive . It all goes back to putting the ego aside , zooming out , and seeing the bigger picture . We have to do everything we can to preserve this incredible land that we have in order to , you know , prosper and make sure that this never happens again . And also send a message to the world : We do n't stand with terror . We 're strong . Do n't do this again . <p> Unfortunately , we know history , and unfortunately , it repeats itself . But we have to make sure that we learn from this and become stronger .
