<h> Share Obituary <p> Roosevelt Batiste , Jr. , born on April 23 , 1964 , entered into eternal rest on Wednesday , December 18 , 2024 at the age of 60 . He went to St. Augustine and Warren Easton High Schools , where he was a member of the football team . Throughout his life he worked at Boucherie , Gaza Gaza , D&amp;K Industries , Lake Lawn Cemetery , Parasol 's and Jani-King . Roosevelt leaves behind a legacy of love , strength and resilience that will forever be cherished by those who knew him . He was a devoted father to his two sons , Roosevelt Batiste , III and Romel Batiste , who were his pride and joy . His unwavering support helped shape them into the remarkable individuals they are today . He is also survived by his loving fianc ? ' Zina Frank who brought love , joy and companionship to his life . Roosevelt also leaves behind his step-father Elie Simmons , two brothers Roosevelt Batiste and Nicholas N. Coleman , Sr. , and aunt Lola Green Perkins , an uncle Larry Green . He is preceded in death by his mother , the late Betty Green Simmons , father Roosevelt Batiste , Sr. , grandparents Leola and Dalton Green , Sr. , and his three aunts Sharon Green Polk , Gwendolyn Green Kirk , Dorothy Green Stokes , and two uncles Dalton Green , Jr . and Eugene Douglass Green , Sr. He also leaves a host of devoted first cousins , other cousins , nieces , nephews , other relatives and close friends . Roosevelt attended My Redeemer Missionary Baptist Church under the direction of Pastor Shaeek Nobles , Sr. Throughout this journey , Roosevelt touched the lives and hearts of many with his kindness and generosity . He was known for his smile and his representation of the place he was from , 3rd ward New Orleans . Roosevelt was the life of the party wherever he went . His spirit of community and commitment to helping others will be remembered fondly . Roosevelt 's family and friends will gather to celebrate his life and the impact he made on those around him . Relatives and friends of the family , also Pastor Nobles , Lady Nobles and members of the My Redeemer Missionary Baptist Church , Fess , Inc. , D&amp;K Industries , Jani-King , Lake Lawn Cemetery , Boucherie Restaurant , Gaza Gaza Restaurant and Parasol 's Restaurant are invited to attend the Celebration of Life Service for Roosevelt Batiste , Jr . on Saturday December 28 , 2024 for 10:00 a.m. at Estelle J. Wilson Funeral Home , Inc. , 2715 Danneel St. , New Orleans , La. 70113 . Visitation from 9:00 a.m. until 10:00 a.m . Rev. Shaeek Nobles , Sr. officiating . Interment : Private . Arrangements entrusted to Estelle J. Wilson Funeral Home , Inc. , 2715 Danneel Street , NOLA 70113 . Information : ( 504 ) 895-4903 . To sign online guest book , please visit www.estellejwilsonfh.com . <p> To send flowers to the family of Roosevelt Batiste Jr. , please visit Tribute Store . <p> Note : These are general guidelines ; some florists may not be able to operate within these timelines . During peak periods such as Valentine 's Day , Memorial Day and most holidays , florists are not always able to keep up to demand . Tribute will contact you if there are any issues . <p> No Events Scheduled At This Time <p> Send Flowers : When Is the Ordering Deadline ? <p> Next-Day Delivery <p> ANY DAY OF THE WEEK <p> Order any time up till the day before <p> Same-Day Delivery <p> MON-FRIOrder by 2:00PM <p> SAT &amp; SUNOrder by noon <p> Morning Delivery <p> TUES-SATOrder by 3:00PMThe day before <p> SAT &amp; SUNOrder by Saturday <p> Note : These are general guidelines ; some florists may not be able to operate within these timelines . During peak periods such as Valentine 's Day , Memorial Day and most holidays , florists are not always able to keep up to demand . Tribute will contact you if there are any issues .
