<h> Opinion Milei , Trump , Erdogan : The Three Radicals Of 2024 <p> An oracle in the ancient kingdom of Phrygia once foretold that its future king would ride into town on a bullock cart . A few days later , the people of the realm anointed the peasant Gordius , who drove an ox-cart as the Phrygian king . Gordius fastened his lucky cart to a pole in the temple to Zeus in a knot that became famous as the Gordian knot . The oracle also prophesied that the one who could untie it would go on to conquer Asia . Many tried but the cart remained tied to the pole . <p> In the year 333 BC , a young Macedonian prince named Alexander came across the knot . When he heard the legend , the precocious 17-year-old simply drew his sword and cut the knot . Proving the prophecy , he went on to win Asia . <p> In the year 2024 , leaders , as maverick as Alexander , sliced many Gordian knots with cleaving rhetoric and radical ideas that were often dismissed as crazy . <h> Javier , The Chainsaw Man <p> Exactly one year ago , Javier Milei , who belongs to the Libertad Avanza , beat Peronist leader Sergio Massa by a mile to become Argentina 's President . A self-described anarcho-capitalist , Milei famously campaigned during the election with a chainsaw , showing off his intent to slash and burn entrenched thought and established institutions , including the country 's central bank . He declared that Argentina needed shock therapy and there was no room for gradualism . Milei took the axe to half the ministries and fired thousands of government employees . The libertarian politician , who swears by freedom of doing business , sawed off large chunks of public spending on infrastructure , education , healthcare and social development services . No long-term gain without short-term pain , he argued . The single-point focus on public finances helped improve the federal balance sheet . <p> Argentina was in a recession when Milei took over . It emerged from that in the July-September quarter . Month-on-month inflation is sharply down from 25% to 2.5% even though annual inflation is still at 193% albeit lower than 211% a year ago . The US dollar now exchanges for nearly the same amount of pesos in the formal and informal market and the country 's forex reserves swelled by $11 billion during the year . Other reforms and small fixes seem to be working too . <p> It is too early to declare Milei 's shock therapy a success just because federal finances have improved . Unemployment has risen and with subsidies gone , cost of living has increased . So has poverty . Milei claims that the rise in unemployment and poverty levels is because it is correctly reported now unlike earlier when , he alleges , the real levels were hidden . He does n't have much time . Argentinians should feel the economic pain easing before the Overton Window shuts . <h> Captain America <p> Milei is at the vanguard of mould-breaking leaders now active on the world stage . The most powerful of them is unquestionably Donald Trump , whose sheer audacity trumps his predecessors ' promises of hope . In an astonishing rebound of political fortune , Trump , whose career seemed to be over in 2020 when he was ejected from office branded as an insurrectionist , trounced the lacklustre Democratic Party candidate Kamala Harris to reclaim the White House after a gap of four years . His comeback is so decisive that the hub of activity has already shifted from Washington to Florida as world leaders and business tycoons drop by to dine on fast food . <p> That business barons are already prostrating before king Trump at his Palm Beach resort-residence Mar-a-Lago is a sign of the enormous power he has accumulated by winning the election on hard positions , over-the-top plans and scattershot threats . SoftBank 's Masayoshi Son has pledged to invest $100 billion in the US over the next four years . Singapore 's ultra-cautious sovereign fund GIC is ramping up its US exposure . Congratulating Trump on his election win , even Indian billionaire Gautam Adani promised to invest $10 billion in that country 's energy and infrastructure sectors . Like his friend and admirer Milei , Trump has vowed to take the axe to government spending and slam rivals with earth-shattering trade tariffs while letting American businesses have a free run . <p> Trump 's promise to radically break away from America 's long-practised foreign policy is already forcing adjustments all over the world . His solution is simple : others ' problems are not America 's unless it 's good for business . A non-interventionist US can lower the temperature in many conflict-ridden parts of the world . <p> NATO members in Europe are mulling raising targeted defence spending to 3% of GDP from the currently mandated 2% of GDP . Israel , until now averse to a truce with Hamas , is said to be ready to make a deal . Some reports say that even Saudi Arabia might be involved in rebuilding Gaza in what has hints of a near-two-state solution . <p> The joker in the Trump pack , however , is Elon Musk , the billionaire designated to head a department of efficiency whose job would be to reprise what Milei -- a Musk fanboy -- did in Argentina . <h> Meanwhile , Phrygia ... er , Turkey <p> On the cusp of Asia and Europe , where ancient Phrygia once existed , Turkey 's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan appears to have hacked a knotty problem in his backyard . In a mere 11 days , an Idlib-based rebel militia led by a former Islamic State and Al Qaeda commander , Ahmed al-Shaara , known earlier by his nom de guerre , Abu Mohammad al-Jolani , successfully evicted Bashar al-Assad , the dynastic occupant of Damascus for 24 years . Reports suggest that the Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , which is designated a terrorist organisation by several countries , including the US and Turkey , has the tacit support of the latter . Acknowledging that Turkey is a major military force , Trump , who gets along with the Turkish President very well , has said that Erdogan orchestrated it . <p> The manoeuvre has decisively changed the power equations in the region . The HTS 's assault -- when a non-interventionist is poised to become the US President and Israel has pummeled to near-submission Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah -- has cut off Iran and Russia , which was a staunch ally of Assad , from the region . <p> In the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict earlier , Turkey had already tested Russia and found that it would be unwilling to divert attention from Ukraine . Turkey 's training and weapons helped Azerbaijan decisively wrest the region from Armenia in September 2023 , which was under Russia 's security umbrella , in a one-day putsch . Turkey also supplies the highly effective Bayraktar drones ( although they are said to be less in use now ) to Ukraine , and their maker , Baykar , was even reported to be building a factory near Kyiv . Erdogan perhaps wagered , correctly , that Russia would not intervene in Syria . <p> That does n't mean the region will calm down . Far from it . But the slim odds for peace and rebuilding in the Middle East have gone up a notch and can potentially mean millions of refugees who fled to Turkey and its European neighbours could return . Erdogan had tried in 2010 to create a free trade zone with Jordan , Syria and Lebanon . A deal was signed but the region plunged into conflict soon after . <p> Whether unconventional leaders have been good or bad for their countries is debatable , but they definitely change the course of history . Nations such as Pakistan and Bangladesh , which are caught in a downward spiral , also need leaders who think out of the box . Events in both countries show that like Argentina , the Overton Window for drastic measures is open but the opportunity will not last for long . Perhaps new leaders will emerge in 2025 . <p> ( Dinesh Narayanan is a Delhi-based journalist and author of ' The RSS And The Making Of The Deep Nation ' . )
