<h> Select an option below to continue reading this premium story . <h> Get unlimited access <p> It 's Christmas Day , and most people , regardless of religious affiliation , see this as a hopeful season . In the northern hemisphere , wintry darkness gave rise to various celebrations that have light at their center : Christmas and Hanukkah are only two of the best-known examples . Even the winter solstice signifies days offering more hours of sunlight , at last . <p> Politically , this has been a dark time , with wars raging on in Gaza and Ukraine and numerous conflict zones less prominent in western headlines -- Myanmar , Sudan and Yemen among these . <p> Further , Americans are just emerging from a contentious campaign year . And worldwide , elections generally have up-ended the incumbent leadership in many countries , raising uncertainty and instability . <p> People have despaired at finding hope in all this fighting . But then on the morning of Dec. 8 in Syria , following a lightning-fast revolution , the ouster of the Assad family signaled that decades of harsh , dictatorial rule had come to a stunning end . <p> Without a doubt , the history of this moment wo n't be written for years , even for generations . The Assads have fled to Russia , and leaders of the Syrian rebel group in the most prominent position , Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) , have indicated a preference now for moderation in forming a new government . <p> In the past , HTS has been regarded as a terrorist group , a branding that will take actions , not mere words , to remove for the long term . Rebellion and governance have requirements that do n't often align well , and creating the institutions that safeguard the rights of Syria 's diverse minorities demands persistent effort and real commitment . <h> Do n't miss out on what 's happening ! <p> Stay in touch with top news , as it happens , conveniently in your email inbox . It 's FREE ! <p> Still , simply witnessing the joy of newly liberated people who have endured so much is encouraging , to be sure . They have hope for a better future , with a new year that offers them such promise . <p> Here at home , America is having its own make-it-work moment . Despite a partisan divide that is still sharply drawn , the advent of a second term for President-elect Donald Trump is being met , for now , with a bit more of wait-and-see rather than the broad resistance of 2017 . <p> Naturally , protest is anticipated , based on the deportations and other radical changes that Trump has pledged to carry out . And some of his opposition seems more resigned to such changes than engaged with them . <p> But democracy is by definition a messy enterprise , and it wo n't do to sit on the sidelines . As has been seen globally , simply holding elections is not the endpoint of democracy , sometimes serving only as a cover for an autocracy . <p> Retreating inward may seem like a natural reaction to a political outcome that disappointed about half this country , but it 's the least effective . The more enlightened path forward is to watch and listen to what 's proposed , and then to counter with a rational response . <p> Hawaii 's congressional representatives have the most direct routes to accomplish that , but everyone can contribute , often locally , to help meet community needs that arise . <p> And as the New Year approaches , America has a supportive role to play for the newly freed , such as those in Syria , and for those still suffering from violence to recover . Peace on Earth is the phrase so often used during these holidays ; it is an elusive virtue to pursue . <p> But this definitely is the season to embrace that pursuit , whether the opportunity arises in the far-off Middle East or in our own back yard . So much about living in a complex world is wearying and distressing that the first green shoots of peace are to be celebrated . <p> Hope can be fleeting , but it also can be nurtured . At the very least , hope is a wonder , and we 're happy to have it , especially at this time .
