<p> WASHINGTON -- Deaths from starvation will likely pass famine levels in northern Gaza as soon as next month owing to Israel 's " near-total blockade " of food and other aid , the U.S.-created global food-crisis monitor said on Tuesday . <p> The finding by the Famine Early Warning System Network appeared to expose a rift within the Biden administration over the extent of starvation in northern Gaza , with the U.S. ambassador to Israel , Jacob Lew , disputing part of the data used in reaching the conclusion and calling the stepped-up famine warning " irresponsible . " <p> Northern Gaza has been one of the areas hardest-hit by fighting and Israel 's restrictions on aid throughout its 14-month war with Hamas militants . Israel at one point increased the number of aid deliveries it permitted into northern Gaza under pressure from President Joe Biden . <p> But the U.N . and aid groups say Israel recently has blocked almost all aid again . Only nine U.N . trucks have been able to bring in food and water over the past 2 ? months , Oxfam says . <p> Israel says it has been operating in recent months against Hamas militants still active in northern Gaza . It says the vast majority of the area 's residents have fled and relocated to Gaza City , where most aid destined for the north is delivered . But some critics , including a former defense minister , have accused Israel of carrying out ethnic cleansing in Gaza 's far north , near the Israeli border . <p> FEWS Net said unless Israel changes its policy , it expects the number of people dying of starvation and related ailments in northern Gaza to reach between two and 15 per day sometime between next month and March . <p> The internationally recognized mortality threshold for famine is two or more deaths a day per 10,000 people . <p> Cindy McCain , the American head of the U.N . World Food Program , in a Dec. 15 appearance on CBS ' " Face the Nation " called for political pressure to get food flowing to Palestinians trapped in north Gaza . <p> " We need unfettered access . We need a ceasefire and we need it now , " she said . " We ca n't ... sit by and just allow these people to starve to death . " <p> FEWS Net was created by the U.S. Agency for International Development in the mid-1980s to warn of global food crises . <p> The United States , Israel 's main backer , provided a record amount of military support in the first year of the war . At the same time , the Biden administration repeatedly urged Israel to allow more access to aid deliveries in Gaza overall , and warned that failing to do so could trigger U.S. restrictions on military support . The administration recently said Israel was making improvements and declined to carry out its threat of restrictions . <p> Military support for Israel 's war in Gaza is politically charged in the United States . Republicans and some Democrats have staunchly opposed any effort to limit U.S. support over the suffering of Palestinian civilians trapped in the conflict . The Biden administration 's reluctance to do more to press Israel for improved treatment of civilians undercut support for Democrats in last month 's elections . <p> Lew , the U.S. ambassador , challenged the famine warning in a posting on social media , saying it was based on " outdated and inaccurate " data . <p> He pointed to uncertainty over how many of the 65,000 people remaining in northern Gaza had fled in recent weeks , saying that skewed the findings . FEWS said its famine assessment holds even if as few as 10,000 remain there . <p> " We work day and night with the U.N . and our Israeli partners to meet humanitarian needs -- which are great -- and relying on inaccurate data is irresponsible , " Lew wrote . <p> AP writers Matthew Lee in Washington and Josef Federman in Jerusalem contributed to this report .
