<h> I Used to Love Christmas in Gaza . Now All That 's Left of It Are My Memories . <h> This should be such a joyous time of year . <p> Sign up for the Slatest to get the most insightful analysis , criticism , and advice out there , delivered to your inbox daily . <p> In most years , by this time , the celebrations of the glorious holidays have long been underway in Gaza . The Gaza Strip is a small area inhabited by 2,300,000 citizens , between 1,000 and 1,300 of them Christians who live in safety and peace among the Muslim majority . The area has two of the oldest churches in the world , the Greek Orthodox Church and the Latin monastery . Typically , these places are adorned with the most beautiful and joyful decorations . During this season , hope and love fill Gaza 's streets and the hearts of its people . <p> It starts in mid-November , when the shops begin to put up their Christmas decorations , including in particular many different lights . The malls put up their Christmas trees , which everyone takes their selfies next to ; the streets resound with Christmas songs and New Year receptions , and Christian institutions organize many celebrations that continue throughout the month of December . Everyone wants to attend and participate in these events . The beautiful and pleasant atmosphere all of this creates is why December has long been my favorite month . Each December , I used to make myself a plan and set goals for the following year , and at the end , celebrate the goals I succeeded in achieving and feel proud of what I accomplished . It is the month of my birthday , yes , but it 's also when the story of a whole year ends and the story of a new one begins . <p> The author in December 2022 . Courtesy of Ruwaida Amer <p> Amid such hardship and war , though , the celebrations have disappeared . There are no trees , no holiday lights . What we see now is destruction everywhere , suffering from hunger and bombing instead of living in safety and celebrating the holidays and the coming new year . There is a shadow hanging over all of us where there should be so much joy right now . But it 's important to remember that what 's happening is not normal . I wanted to remember what is , what this time of year should be like . All we have right now of normal life are our memories . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> I am a Muslim , but I have many Christian friends , because I am a journalist and many here know me well by my work . I also work as a teacher in a private Christian school , where I have many Christian colleagues . We coexist in love and tolerance , and we say hello when we see each other on the street . I used to participate in many lovely Christmas events , in the school and outside it . <p> In mid-November , the school principal , a nun , begins decorating the school with Christmas trees . All the corridors and floors are decorated for the holiday . There is a tree at the entrance of every room . She also places a Christmas tree in the green yard opposite the science lab , where I work frequently . I always joke with her and ask her to decorate it with especially beautiful ornaments . This is my tree , and it 's in my favorite place ; it needs special attention . During the break between classes , the students dance to Christmas songs , running happily to join in . The principal buys Christmas sweets and distributes them to the students . Everyone at the school is so happy in December . <p> We used to have the Latin Patriarch visit our school . He comes from Jerusalem to celebrate the holidays with the people of Gaza . He even gives us a small sum of money so that we can buy Christmas gifts for our families . Then we have a dinner or lunch party to greet our Christian colleagues , where we give them gifts . It is a tradition and a memory that brings us all together . At this time of year in Gaza , the feelings of brotherhood between us as Muslims and Christians are strong . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> In my work , I usually care a lot about covering Christmas ; I 've received many invitations to cover the holidays as a journalist . People want to show and share their joy . Many Christians laugh when I call them to coordinate a video or write an article about the holiday so far in advance . It 's true I start reporting on it early , sometimes following plans and preparations a month before Christmas . But it 's worth it . <p> Advertisement <p> In 2017 , I had a job to shoot a video story about the " Barbara " dish . This is a type of food from wheat and nuts that Christians prepare on holidays . The feast of Barbara is on Dec. 16 , which is also my birthday . I spent hours with Mrs. " Maha Tarzi , " who welcomed me into her home and allowed me to shoot a complete story while she was cooking the dish . It was an excellent , different way to spend my birthday . At the end of the shoot , she gave me a delicious plate of the Barbara . Later I met my friend in the mall and told her all about the dish and the lady who made it . So we shared some Barbara , and she loved it , too . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> The Young Men 's Christian Association in Gaza City offers many programs for Christians and Muslims together , but they have special parties during December . They hold a bazaar to display handicrafts made by Christian and Muslim women , including food , textiles , and holiday decorations . There are many different elements to the celebration , including dabke dancing , singing , and clown shows . Another big party at the Y is the lighting of the Christmas tree ; everyone participates . I used to see girls and children running toward the tree every year to take their pictures next to it . So much happiness fills the place . <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> During the nights of the month , the city remains crowded and joyous . You feel like Santa Claus is roaming the streets for the children . Then everyone moves into the churches , even Muslims . It is an official holiday in Palestine . ( Each Christian sect has a different time for prayer ; only some are in December , others in January . ) <p> I 've joined Christians during the holiday prayers myself . We would enter the church , whose door is bright with holiday decorations . The Christians would flock in wearing such beautiful outfits . The holiday 's traditional red and white clothes hold a different spirit than any other time of year . They would shake hands and laugh , celebrate and pray , everyone running toward Santa Claus . My close friends and loved ones would light a candle carrying wishes of love and peace for the new year . <p> Ruwaida Amer <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Now , Christians have fled into churches , because it is their only shelter . Very few of them , only about five families that I know of , were able to flee from the war outside Gaza , but more than 1,000 Christians are still displaced inside the Greek Orthodox Church and the Latin monastery , surviving under the very difficult conditions of the ongoing siege , famine , and bombing . On Oct. 19 of last year , the Greek Orthodox Church was targeted by an Israeli missile . It was already one of the buildings where many Christians were sleeping , and 18 people were killed . <p> Advertisement <p> This incident is still infamous , considered the most difficult that Christians have experienced during the war , even though it was followed by the siege and the advance of tanks around the churches during Israel 's ground operation in the city . It 's not difficult to see why this was such a tragedy for Gaza 's Christians : It deprived them not only of an important and sacred place of worship , but of the joy of their holidays . Last year and this one , celebrating Christmas has become limited to prayers only -- in order to pray for an end to this ongoing war . <h> Related From Slate <p> During these days before Christmas , Christians are supposed to travel to the West Bank to pray in the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem . It is considered the most important eventof the year for them , and they prepare for it annually by submitting permits to the Israeli side in order to obtain the approval they need to go . Bethlehem is regarded as the city of peace and love , one that is decorated in a striking and unique way from the rest of the world as the city where Jesus Christ , peace be upon him , was born . But that city , it 's been reported , is not even able to celebrate Christmas without heavy sorrow hanging over it today . Its celebrations have stopped because of the war in Gaza ; the home of Jesus is now limited only to prayer at Christmastime . Many have told me that they miss their families in Jerusalem and Bethlehem . They have not been able to visit them at all , even for Christmas , for what is now two consecutive years . <p> Advertisement <p> The Christian community is still heartbroken , still hoping that this war will stop soon and that this holiday will be a reason for joy in Gaza again , and that it will mark an end to the killing in it . There is also a big question among all of them : Will we stay in Gaza ? Or will we leave it and look for safety abroad ? <p> Many Christians have plans to emigrate because of the unstable political situation and the continuous wars . They lost their homes and workplaces in Gaza . A few of them were able to leave , but the rest are still living in a state of terror because of the ongoing bombing and ground operations . <p> Among the people killed in the bombing of the Greek Orthodox Church last Oct. 19 was one of my students : a Christian named Issa Al-Suri , only 12 years old . He was bombed while sleeping in the building with his mother and father . The entire family was killed . Issa was a very calm and polite student and was the only child of his parents . His mother , my colleague at school , was a kindergarten teacher and took great care of her child . It was as if she already felt that their lives were short , and would not last long . They left a life in which they did not see justice and humanity and which did not save them from the war . What more needs to be understood than this : Issa was a child , killed in a church , in his parents ' arms .
