<p> December 's so dramatic . For weeks , the days darken -- a quickening fade that suggests a coming show . It 's depressing to leave home around four-thirty and realize the sun 's already set . But the darkness has its clarifying benefits . One of my friends , a photographer , recently told me about a new energy in his work , coinciding with the slide toward the solstice . When the light 's this scarce , you 've got to grab it while you can . <p> Darkness that , by contrast , makes light all the brighter ; bright moments that seem to redeem the dark : that black-and-white opposition is , for me , what makes up the poignant imagery of Christmas . Think of the famous scene : wise men navigating by the stars -- flaming constellations against a fathomless sky -- searching the dank nooks of Rome 's empire for an incandescent child . Handel quotes the prophet Isaiah -- that urgent , scathing , unpredictable voice -- in the " Messiah " : " The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light . " Right now , my living room reeks pleasantly of pine -- little white pinpricks against so many dark green leaves . ( The great comedian and writer Paul Mooney once made fun of dark-light talk like this , pointing out how hopelessly racialized it tends to be in a society like our own . Mocking a melodramatic pronouncement , he wailed , " It was the darkest day of my life ! " Fair enough . ) <p> Looking back at the year , I ca n't help but see things in this Christmassy , paradoxical way . In art and politics equally , 2024 has been -- to me , at least -- a swerving journey between high peaks and low depths , blind confusions and piercing revelations , the crooked and the straight . Events popped out of nowhere and dissolved just as quickly as they 'd appeared . One shock followed another until , by year 's end , it was hard to feel really shocked . <p> Maybe this way of seeing is personal for me . Almost exactly a year ago , a few days before Christmas , after a year replete with death and sorrow , I learned that I 'd be a father again . Almost nineteen years between babies , and what timing ! The first thing I did upon hearing it -- it was nighttime ; we were walking on a quiet street -- was laugh . It 's been a year of surprises . <p> Not long after New Year 's Day , I went to see " Terce , " a spectacle of music and movement -- theatre in the way that all religious ceremony is theatre -- by Heather Christian . The piece is a rewriting , a kind of earth-mothering desacralization , of the Catholic Mass , and of the scriptural and poetic tradition from which it springs . If you 've sat in a pew a time or two , you might recognize some of the phrases that Christian twists into mysterious new urban-pagan meanings . The performance happened in Brooklyn , in a converted church with a high balcony and ever higher windows reaching toward the pointed roof . Surrounded by a hip choir of singers and instrumentalists , Christian strode energetically around the room like a rogue spirit , or the first initiate into a newly constituted priesthood , singing here , playing there . The crowd looked up at a screen , learning her words , willing to be changed . The scene felt like it could have been an earnest response to Paul Laurence Dunbar 's poem " Christmas Carol " : <p> No , be not still , But with a willStrike all your harps and set them ringing ; On hill and heathLet every breathThrow all its power into singing ! <p> Around the same time , the comedian Katt Williams burst into song of a very different kind . As a guest on " Club Shay Shay , " the interview-based video podcast hosted by the Hall of Fame tight end Shannon Sharpe , Williams , always a speechifying wild card , let loose a stream of prophetic-sounding imprecations aimed at his contemporaries in the entertainment industry . He aired petty personal beefs with comics like Steve Harvey and Cedric the Entertainer , but , along the way , seemed to be pointing beyond individuals and toward a larger conspiracy of dishonesty among the famous ? lite . He spoke cryptically about revelations that might or might not emerge , about , say , Sean ( Diddy ) Combs or the famous TV preacher T. D. Jakes . Who knew ? It was time for things to come to light . <p> He sounded conspiratorial and a bit unhinged -- at one point he claimed to have read , in his youth , at a rate of three thousand books a year . But , thanks to monsters like Jeffrey Epstein and disasters like COVID-19 , wild conspiracy has become one of the signature attitudes of our era . Conspiracy theorizing is a sort of antidote against shock , a way to ward off the tumult of an over-eventful world . If everything 's connected , nothing 's a surprise . In his long , often downbeat poem " For the Time Being : A Christmas Oratorio , " W. H. Auden predicted that " Reason will be replaced by Revelation . . . Whole cosmogonies will be created out of some forgotten personal resentment , complete epics written in private languages . " He could have been foretelling a rhetorical performance like Williams 's , or , more darkly , the raving political style of which it was a minor example . <p> The spring and summer were hot with sudden conflict . In March , Kendrick Lamar and Drake -- arguably the most popular rappers of their moment -- started a lyrical battle that stretched on for months , culminating when Lamar released " Not Like Us , " a bopping accusation of crimes literal ( pedophilia ) and symbolic ( cultural opportunism ) which sounds like a West Coast party record . Now people play the song that vanquished Drake on the P.A. system at basketball arenas , or arrange it for horns and drums and perform it on college football fields . Drake was a world-beater , a guaranteed hitmaker for himself and others , and he 's lately become , at Lamar 's hands , a bit of a punch line . Recently he filed a petition against Universal Music Group , which distributes his music and Lamar 's . Another conspiracy theory , one I 'm not so sure I do n't buy , at least in part : Drake claims that UMG intentionally boosted " Not Like Us , " essentially plotting and executing -- with the help of streaming services , such as Spotify -- an in-house coup against an artist who had become too big for his own good . ( Spotify has denied the claim . ) Maybe this is a bit of the " truth " that Katt Williams was talking about -- nobody denies that the music business seems rigged against the artists on whom it depends . <p> It 's always been like this : we 're in a dark room , groping around for dim hints . Sometimes a light glows through the window and throws shadows against the wall , and we make quick , hopeful sketches before the image evanesces . Life does n't offer many answers . But it does seem , these days , as if big , overweening institutions -- a record label or a streaming service or a government , the shocking bureaucracy of a school -- are determined to crowd out even more sun , making it all the more difficult to see what 's what . Is what I 'm seeing inflation or price gouging ? A big organic hit or a Netflix-pumped mirage ? Nobody can seem to find the numbers to show and to prove . Everything 's interpretation . That kind of obfuscation was all I could think about in April and May , when , on TV and the social feeds dancing up and down on my phone , I watched universities sic police officers and other keepers of official violence on their students . The kids were galvanized by unprecedented images out of Gaza -- explosions , white rubble , bloody kids -- and decided to make noise where they lived and had the most leverage . <p> On the day I delivered my short , sad final lecture of the spring semester for a class I taught at Columbia , I decided to take a walk through the student encampment on the campus . The kids were tranquilly giving speeches and playing music , chatting with any passerby who 'd listen . They 'd carefully marked the tables where nuts were served , mindful of allergies . There was n't much foot traffic : the administration had closed the campus to outsiders , and the air was strangely dead . By some of the news coverage , you 'd think the campers in their bright tents had abducted a provost . Not many days later , I watched hundreds of police officers , a phalanx in dark blue , storm the campus , arresting students and breaking up their groupings , approaching the administrative exercise as though it were the early stages of a war . <p> All spring , I 'd been going to doctor 's appointments , witnessing the colorless miracle of the sonograph . I still do n't understand how the dorky-looking machine and the cold blue gel conspire to turn secret sounds into those silvery , fragile , beautiful images . But often , when I looked at the echo of my child 's face in profile , I thought of the kids I 'd seen on other screens all year long , suffering violence , becoming acquainted with the worst . <p> The gestational period , that slow-brewing shock , brings to mind e. e. cummings 's description , in his poem " little tree , " of a box of Christmas ornaments : " the spangles / that sleep all the year in a dark box / dreaming of being taken out and allowed to shine . " <p> I put a book out this year and , on my travels , got to experience a pair of political surprises alongside fellow-Americans I 'd only just met . I was about to give a talk in Chicago when somebody looked at their phone and murmured that perhaps Donald Trump had been shot in Pennsylvania . Later , in my hotel room , I shook my head in disbelief when I saw the now famous picture of Trump with his fist high and blood streaking across his face , his body swaddled by the bodies of his Secret Service detail . He 'd gathered himself like some adrenalized animal , all instinct , for just long enough to make the attempt on his life seem like a snippet of fan fiction . Then Trump showed up to the Republican National Convention wearing a huge white thought-bubble of bandage on his ear . Improv followed by choreo : one of the great performances of the year . <p> I was at a book fair in Idaho , under a big white lovely tent , when a rumor started going around . Again : phones . People craned down at them , hoping then quickly confirming that it was true . Joe Biden had resigned from the Presidential race -- the right decision at the wrong time -- leaving room for his Vice-President to run . Even then , in those first moments , you could feel the strained stirrings of " joy " that would become the much ballyhooed theme of the first month of Kamala Harris 's short campaign . After so much uncertainty , so much muddling through muck , people understandably wanted something clear and clean and good to work and root for . That fleeting early Kamala moment is , in retrospect , a sour reminder that , though the shocks are always coming , giving us the giddy sensation of a high , you ca n't manufacture the true and lasting surprise -- more fact than feeling -- that hums under real , powerful political movements . <p> The Olympics pluck at inner chords first sounded in my childhood . If I ever get too old to feel total glee when confronted by all those weird sports , somebody put me away . For one thing , Olympic years give nations license to fly their freak flags , just a bit . It 's a shame that conservative Catholics allowed themselves to be so thoroughly trolled by the mildly provocative , maximally loopy parody of the Last Supper that the French put on during the opening ceremony . It would have otherwise been a choice moment to ask the classic question : What 's going on with these people ? And how can I join them ? <p> This time around , I was especially happy to follow Simone Biles , who is better at gymnastics than anyone else is at anything else . Before the Games , I 'd watched " Simone Biles Rising , " a Netflix documentary about Biles 's recovery from the " twisties " that she 'd suffered three years ago , leaving her lost in the air when she flipped . These kinds of athlete-sanctioned docs are everywhere now , pretending at objectivity but acting , in fact , as elongated hagiographic commercials . Still , it was harrowing to hear Biles describe what had ailed her , and inspiring to see her working her way back . When I watched the floor exercise that won her yet another gold medal -- she gets so high off the ground that she seems to come down only by choice , like a benevolent deity condescending to meet mortals and make a home among them -- I was n't surprised so much by her comeback as by my ability , all over again , to be deeply moved by a body and its exertions . <p> I 'm still moved , much less happily , by political disappointment , too . I was tasked with live-blogging on Election Night , and in yet another hotel room I snuggled up with some room service , typing away my hopeful jitters . The night was a downhill slope , a movement in woeful reverse , a tidal pull back into the tumult and dangerous madness of what must now be called the era of Trump . At three in the morning , there were empty plates on my bed and a knot in my stomach . <p> Soon after the election , I went to the New York Philharmonic , to see a program led and conducted by the eminent composer John Adams . The clocks had been moved back , and the tail of the year was beginning its slide : it was pitch-black as the car took us to Lincoln Center . The program was a kind of topography , travelling from the meditative , repetitive plains cleared out by the music of the Estonian Arvo P ? rt , through the troubled environmentalist worryscape of the young American composer Gabriella Smith , and onto the urban sidewalks , made mirrors by rain , conjured by Aaron Copland 's " Quiet City . " The players that night were sleek and fun , expressive and game . They did n't shy away from the contradictions in the music . They were consummate professionals acting out the startled recognition of an encounter with brand-new noises , native to real places . When they sounded the final notes of Adams 's " City Noir , " the crowd went up in claps and whoops . <p> The savvy and the innocence of that concert reminded me of another one I 'd been entranced by : the Tiny Desk performance by the R. &amp; B. singer Maxwell . A friend in middle school made me a cassette-taped copy of Maxwell 's first album , " Maxwell 's Urban Hang Suite , " and I 've been a fan ever since . Maxwell 's falsetto is just as strong as it 's always been , and his backup singers held his voice in a feathery bed of their own voices , making all the classic songs float . He seemed happy to be there , and genuinely surprised that the audience in the little workspace at NPR knew all the words to his songs . A truly humble superstar : there 's something you do n't see every day . Emily Dickinson gets at that rare phenomenon in her short poetic profile of Christ : <p> The Savior must have beenA docile Gentleman -- To come so far so cold a DayFor little Fellowmen -- <p> Here 's a symbolic gesture that deeply touched me , a heartening drama on a darkening stage : the wooden Nativity scene unveiled at the Vatican earlier this month , created by Palestinian artists from Dar al-Kalima University , in Bethlehem . The baby Jesus ' manger was wrapped in a kaffiyeh . A small sign that this child -- a world-historic surprise -- was supposed to have lived and died for precisely the most endangered and most despised among our " little Fellowmen , " wherever they might live . <p> My baby was born a whole month early . We were n't totally ready . Breaking water in the morning and shoulders squiggling free in the dark of evening . Her name means Light . ? <p> " The Brutalist , " the director 's nearly four-hour study of immigration , identity , and marriage , flowed from his own struggle to create art without compromise . " You really have to dare to suck to transcend , " he said .
