<p> Foreign Minister Gideon Sa'ar directed Israel 's diplomatic missions across Europe , including those in EU member states and the UK , to push for the designation of Ansar Allah , also known as the Houthis , as a terrorist organization on Tuesday . <p> Sa'ar emphasized the importance of the directive , saying , " The Houthis pose a threat not only to Israel but to the region and the entire world . The direct threat to freedom of navigation in one of the busiest maritime routes globally is a challenge to the international community and the world order . The most basic and fundamental step is to designate them as a terrorist organization . " <p> This directive comes in the wake of a series of Houthi attacks on Israel over the last week , which included the launch of ballistic missiles targeting central Israel . These missiles struck , among other places , a school in Ramat Gan and a location near a playground in Jaffa . <p> Since October 7 , the Houthis have launched an aggressive campaign against Israel , deploying hundreds of ballistic missiles , cruise missiles , and UAVs . Their leaders have publicly pledged to persist in their efforts to harm Israel and disrupt maritime navigation in the western seas , including the Red Sea and the Bab al-Mandeb Strait . More than 100 vessels , including many European-flagged ships , have been attacked in the region during this campaign . Protesters , mainly Houthi supporters , rally to show support to Palestinians in the Gaza Strip , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Sanaa , Yemen December 6 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <p> The Houthis are widely regarded as an Iranian proxy , with Tehran providing financial backing , weapons , training , and operational support -- a fact repeatedly highlighted in United Nations Security Council reports . <p> The group has already been labeled a terrorist organization by nations such as the United States , Saudi Arabia , Malaysia , the UAE , Australia , Canada , New Zealand , and Israel . <h> Recent Houthi attacks on Israel <p> On Saturday , sixteen people in Tel Aviv were lightly wounded by glass shards after a Houthi rocket fired from Yemen slammed into Jaffa . <p> Prior to that , during the early hours of Thursday morning , Yemen fired a missile toward central Israel . Israel Air Force ( IAF ) fighter jets struck Houthi targets in the capital of Sana'a in Yemen afterward.
