<p> Something about this Christmas season feels a bit off . The carols are playing and the shops are bustling , but the airwaves are silent . Something is missing ... <p> The war on Christmas ! <p> Remember the big deal it was every year when a war on Christmas was called out ? Debates about the placements of Nativity scenes were considered a part of that war ; a television host declared that Santa Claus could only be white . The stockings were stuffed with books like " The War on Christmas , " and countless hours were devoted to fake outrage that people said " Happy holidays " and not " Merry Christmas . " <p> Remember the big deal it was every year when a war on Christmas was called out ? <p> What were the complaints that there was a war on Christmas in America about ? <p> They were just another part of the culture wars deployed by conservative Republicans and conservative Christians ( Protestant and Catholic ) to complain that Christianity was getting short shrift from the public , from merchants and especially in schools . Much like the holiday Festivus -- which these conservatives would hate in principle because it is secular but agree with in practice -- complaints about a war on Christmas were an annual end-of-year airing of grievances . It was a time amid holiday celebrations to advocate for the primacy of Christianity over other religious traditions and to rail against the perceived ( and sometimes real ) threats to take down religious displays of the holiday . <p> This year , Republicans and conservative Christians have dispensed with whining about a war on Christmas in anticipation of the second coming of their political savior , Donald Trump , into the White House . According to a YouGov poll , the percentage of Americans who believe there is a war on Christmas has fallen since December 2022 , from 39% to 23% . Among Republicans , that percentage has dropped from 59% to 36% . <p> While that is a picture of America overall , that does n't mean that local skirmishes are n't happening in the Christmas wars . For the first time , a group called Minnesota Satanists has a holiday display at the State Capitol in St. Paul , and Republicans have criticized Gov . Tim Walz for its existence . Walz does n't sign off on such displays , and his office released a statement that reads : " The Governor does not agree with the display and did not approve it . But the First Amendment means that he does not police speech in the State Capitol . That 's true whether it 's a religious display , a political protest , or a Minnesotan advocating for a policy . " <p> The percentage of Americans who believe there is a war on Christmas has fallen since December 2022 , from 39% to 23% . <p> The Star Tribune newspaper reports that the display was knocked over one day last week and temporarily removed but was put back in place the next day . Earlier this month , a Satanic Temple holiday display of Baphomet was vandalized at the New Hampshire State House . <p> Fights about Nativity scenes at state capitols and other public places have a long history in America , and they are often used to promote Christianity in the public sphere . But when people who are n't Christian , including satanists , demand equal time , well , things do n't usually turn out too well . <p> This year 's Vatican Nativity scene , designed by two artists from Dar al-Kalima University in Bethlehem , was criticized because it shows the baby Jesus lying on a Palestinian keffiyeh . Usually , the baby Jesus is n't placed into the Vatican Nativity scene until Christmas Eve , but it was put there early to show donors and others what the finished product looked like . The baby was returned on Christmas Eve , as is the custom , but the keffiyeh was gone . <p> The debate at the Vatican is a reminder that there are real wars going on around the world this Christmas season . <p> The debate at the Vatican is a reminder that there are real wars going on around the world this Christmas season : in Ukraine , Gaza , Sudan and many other places . This is n't a peaceful time , by any estimation . Pope Francis is expected to stand on a balcony on Dec. 25 to give his " Urbi et Orbi " ( to the city of Rome and the world ) message . No doubt it will include references to the wars around the world and especially the one between Israel and Hamas . After all , that is in a region where Christian pilgrims from around the world go to celebrate Christmas . The Latin patriarch of Jerusalem is encouraging Christians to come despite the war , but it remains to be seen how they get there with so many airline carriers canceling flights . <p> Declarations that there 's a war on Christmas can be political or philosophical , but most of all they 're a utilitarian means of control . They are a soft , uncivil but nonviolent way of airing grievances . But this Christmas season , it 's time to focus on the real wars around us and work for peace .
