<h> Now more than ever , Jews and Muslims must stand united GUEST COMMENTARY <h> Share this : <p> People gather around the 10-foot menorah during Hanukkah on the Pier event at the end of the San Clemente pier hosted by Chabad of San Clemente in San Clemente , Calif. , Sunday , Dec. 18 , 2022 . ( Leonard Ortiz/The Orange County Register via AP , File ) <p> The 13-month period that began with the eruption of the Israel-Gaza war on Oct. 7 , 2023 , and culminated in Donald Trump 's victory in the U.S. presidential election was a disastrous period for Muslim-Jewish relations in America , and , not coincidentally , for the cause of democracy , pluralism , free speech and religious freedom . Now , with dangerous policy changes set to follow , American Muslims and Jews must urgently restore positive relations . We must do so to help save America from an authoritarian and nativist future threatening our well-being and that of a panoply of other minority communities dependent on principles of diversity and mutual acceptance . <p> Fortunately , we have already proven that Muslim-Jewish solidarity is not an impossible dream . During the first two decades of the 21st century , tens of thousands of grassroots Muslims and Jews got to know each other through synagogue-mosque " twinning " events , building personal friendships and ties of cooperation . This groundwork paid off during the first Trump administration in a shared agenda promoting pluralism and fighting back against antisemitism and Islamophobia . The operating credo for both sides was that Muslims and Jews must stand up for each other when members of either community are victimized . <p> Yet today , outraged and traumatized by the Gaza-Israel war , American Jews and Muslims have retreated into their respective tribal corners . Instead of standing together against the upsurge in antisemitism and Islamophobia in the United States , they are lashing out at each other . <p> The Republican Party has exploited the increase in antisemitism , even as they ignored the rise in Islamophobia , to split our two communities . Meanwhile , the Biden administration failed to find the requisite political will to bring about a ceasefire and restore humanitarian aid in Gaza , leading to disillusionment and despair among many Muslims and Jews . <p> Muslims and Jews need to remember that while most of us care deeply about Israel and Palestine , we live side by side in America , not in the Middle East . We need to agree to disagree respectfully on Israel-Gaza while prioritizing rebuilding our alliance in defense of democracy and pluralism . <p> We can start by standing together against Trump 's plan to round up and detain millions of undocumented people before expelling them from the country . We must find a humane formula for the immigration issue . Let us not forget the timeless injunction in both our faiths to " welcome the stranger " and that millions of American Jews and Muslims came here to escape life-threatening violence and oppression . <p> We must speak out against efforts to erode the separation of church and state in ways that empower ascendent Christian nationalism at the expense of the rights of minority faiths . Today Republican-led state governments are aggressively pushing conservative Christian principles into the public schools . Oklahoma has announced the creation of an Office of Religious Liberty and Patriotism and called for students to pray for President-elect Trump . In Texas , the state education board has rolled out a new " voluntary " elementary school curriculum filled with Bible stories . <p> Jews and Muslims need to stand up for the principle of free speech , including speech that members of both communities may find offensive . Influential Jewish organizations need to cease efforts to weaponize antisemitism , such as pushing Congress to write into law a definition of antisemitism that characterizes criticism of Israeli policies as indicative of antisemitism . The soon-to-be Trump administration has signaled that it intends to withhold federal funding from many of America 's top universities under the spurious claim that they are encouraging antisemitism . This should be anathema to a Jewish community that defended freedom of expression during McCarthyism and the Vietnam War but now seems inclined to outlaw anti-Zionism . Muslim leaders should emphasize the rights of Jewish students to proclaim solidarity with Israel and condemn threats to their physical safety . <p> Let 's be honest ; it is both risky and scary to stand up to a soon-to-be president who has vowed to exact retribution on his political enemies . Might it not be better for Jews and Muslims to lie low for the moment ? The hard truth is that we can not afford to do that . Once fundamental rights are taken away , getting them back is difficult . <p> At this perilous hour , we need people of faith to be a collective voice of conscience in upholding the values of brotherhood in staunch opposition to hatred and bigotry . Yet there can be no credible interfaith movement without Jews and Muslims , the two largest minority faith communities in America , at its core . <p> Therefore , let us show each other compassion over the pain both communities feel about the cataclysm in Israel-Palestine , while we focus on rebuilding our alliance . We need to heal our breach to help save America from the totalitarian whirlwind bearing down upon all of us . <p> Sabeeha Rehman and Walter Ruby , who lives in Frederick , are co-authors of " We Refuse to Be Enemies " ( Arcade Press 2021 ) and longstanding advocates for Muslim-Jewish friendship and cooperation .
