<p> It is n't the tallest menorah in New York or the world , but it is n't far off , either . <p> The menorah in Kennedy Plaza in Long Beach reaches 27 feet high and is so tall that rabbis must ride a fire department cherry picker to light the candles . The tallest menorah in the world is 32 feet -- there are two of them in New York City . <p> But beyond friendly debate about the tallest menorah , Jewish leaders say they are an essential symbol of Hanukkah -- which starts Wednesday night -- and an important way to celebrate Jewish pride at one of the most difficult times in Israel 's history . <p> " I think it is important for the Jewish community to have something at the end of the year , " said Rabbi Eli Goodman , head of Chabad of the Beaches , which organizes the menorah event in Long Beach . " While everybody else is celebrating in a very public fashion , the Jewish people need to also celebrate in a very public way . " <p> He expects at least 500 people to attend the lighting of the menorah at 6 p.m. on Thursday , the second night of the eight-day " festival of lights . " There will be fried potato latkes , jelly doughnuts , hot coffee and " parachuting dreidels . " The start of Hanukkah this year coincides with Christmas , so Goodman delayed the event by a day . <p> Jewish people across Long Island are feeling the urge more than ever to celebrate their religion after the Hamas-led attack of Oct. 7 , 2023 , that left 1,200 people dead and 250 taken hostage , community leaders said . A war has raged since then , with Israel killing at least 45,000 people in the Gaza Strip in a counteroffensive , according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry . At least 100 hostages remain in Gaza , according to the Israeli government . <p> " The Jewish people are going through some real existential threats and questions , and it 's a time that pride in our heritage is very , very important , " said Rabbi Tuvia Teldon , head of the Chabad movement on Long Island . " Some Jews have been hiding their Judaism as a result of what is going on in the world with the antisemitism . Do n't hide it , be proud of who you are . " <p> Chabad has been erecting menorahs across Long Island for years , and now has about 100 , he said . A Chabad rabbi who produces the menorahs also provides dozens more to other synagogues , governments , hospitals and local groups , he said . Menorahs can be seen in parks , by highways , in front of government buildings , bridges , sports stadiums , train stations , and in multiple other locations including synagogues themselves . <p> It was n't always that way , Teldon said . The public display of menorahs first started in the United States in the 1970s when an emissary of the then-leader of the worldwide Chabad movement , the Lubavitcher Rebbe Menachem Mendel Schneerson , put one up across the street from the White House , he said . <p> " There were lots of Christmas trees but no public menorahs , " Teldon said . <p> Since then , menorahs have become ubiquitous in many communities on Long Island and around the region and the world . One of the tallest is near Exit 37 on the Long Island Expressway . Another is by the UBS Arena in Elmont . The tallest one in the world is at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street in Manhattan by the Plaza Hotel and Central Park , according to the Guinness Book of World Records . That one is 32 feet high -- the maximum height permitted under Jewish rules . <p> Jewish leaders have erected another one of the same height at Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn . <p> There are even menorahs in Red Square in Moscow and by the Eiffel Tower in Paris . <p> Menorahs are a centerpiece of Hanukkah , which commemorates what the faithful consider a miracle that happened more than 2,000 years ago . <p> The holiday recognizes the rededication of the sacred Temple of Jerusalem at the time of the Maccabean Revolt of the second century Before the Common Era . <p> After Jewish warriors retook control of the temple from Syrian and Greek soldiers , they found oil for the eternal light in the synagogue , according to the Talmud . The oil appeared to be enough for a day , but the light miraculously burned for eight days . <p> In commemoration , Jews light a candle and shammes , a kindling candle , on the menorah on the first night of Hanukkah and another candle each successive night until the entire menorah is lit . <p> The story , and the festival , carry with them themes of hope , miracles , thanksgiving and religious freedom triumphing over political tyranny . <p> Rick Lewis , chief executive of the Mid-Island Y JCC in Plainview , says he hopes the menorahs and the overlap of Christmas , Hanukkah and Kwanzaa this year can generate more unity among people . <p> The menorahs " are there to bring light to the community , " he said . " We should all celebrate the holidays as one and not be so separated . " <p> It is n't the tallest menorah in New York or the world , but it is n't far off , either . <p> The menorah in Kennedy Plaza in Long Beach reaches 27 feet high and is so tall that rabbis must ride a fire department cherry picker to light the candles . The tallest menorah in the world is 32 feet -- there are two of them in New York City . <p> But beyond friendly debate about the tallest menorah , Jewish leaders say they are an essential symbol of Hanukkah -- which starts Wednesday night -- and an important way to celebrate Jewish pride at one of the most difficult times in Israel 's history . <p> " I think it is important for the Jewish community to have something at the end of the year , " said Rabbi Eli Goodman , head of Chabad of the Beaches , which organizes the menorah event in Long Beach . " While everybody else is celebrating in a very public fashion , the Jewish people need to also celebrate in a very public way . " <p> He expects at least 500 people to attend the lighting of the menorah at 6 p.m. on Thursday , the second night of the eight-day " festival of lights . " There will be fried potato latkes , jelly doughnuts , hot coffee and " parachuting dreidels . " The start of Hanukkah this year coincides with Christmas , so Goodman delayed the event by a day . <p> Sign up for the NewsdayTV newsletter <p> From breaking news to special features and documentaries , the NewsdayTV team is covering the issues that matter to you . <p> Jewish people across Long Island are feeling the urge more than ever to celebrate their religion after the Hamas-led attack of Oct. 7 , 2023 , that left 1,200 people dead and 250 taken hostage , community leaders said . A war has raged since then , with Israel killing at least 45,000 people in the Gaza Strip in a counteroffensive , according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry . At least 100 hostages remain in Gaza , according to the Israeli government . <p> " The Jewish people are going through some real existential threats and questions , and it 's a time that pride in our heritage is very , very important , " said Rabbi Tuvia Teldon , head of the Chabad movement on Long Island . " Some Jews have been hiding their Judaism as a result of what is going on in the world with the antisemitism . Do n't hide it , be proud of who you are . " <p> Chabad has been erecting menorahs across Long Island for years , and now has about 100 , he said . A Chabad rabbi who produces the menorahs also provides dozens more to other synagogues , governments , hospitals and local groups , he said . Menorahs can be seen in parks , by highways , in front of government buildings , bridges , sports stadiums , train stations , and in multiple other locations including synagogues themselves . <p> It was n't always that way , Teldon said . The public display of menorahs first started in the United States in the 1970s when an emissary of the then-leader of the worldwide Chabad movement , the Lubavitcher Rebbe Menachem Mendel Schneerson , put one up across the street from the White House , he said . <p> " There were lots of Christmas trees but no public menorahs , " Teldon said . <p> Since then , menorahs have become ubiquitous in many communities on Long Island and around the region and the world . One of the tallest is near Exit 37 on the Long Island Expressway . Another is by the UBS Arena in Elmont . The tallest one in the world is at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street in Manhattan by the Plaza Hotel and Central Park , according to the Guinness Book of World Records . That one is 32 feet high -- the maximum height permitted under Jewish rules . <p> Jewish leaders have erected another one of the same height at Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn . <p> There are even menorahs in Red Square in Moscow and by the Eiffel Tower in Paris . <p> Menorahs are a centerpiece of Hanukkah , which commemorates what the faithful consider a miracle that happened more than 2,000 years ago . <p> The holiday recognizes the rededication of the sacred Temple of Jerusalem at the time of the Maccabean Revolt of the second century Before the Common Era . <p> After Jewish warriors retook control of the temple from Syrian and Greek soldiers , they found oil for the eternal light in the synagogue , according to the Talmud . The oil appeared to be enough for a day , but the light miraculously burned for eight days . <p> In commemoration , Jews light a candle and shammes , a kindling candle , on the menorah on the first night of Hanukkah and another candle each successive night until the entire menorah is lit . <p> The story , and the festival , carry with them themes of hope , miracles , thanksgiving and religious freedom triumphing over political tyranny . <p> Rick Lewis , chief executive of the Mid-Island Y JCC in Plainview , says he hopes the menorahs and the overlap of Christmas , Hanukkah and Kwanzaa this year can generate more unity among people . <p> The menorahs " are there to bring light to the community , " he said . " We should all celebrate the holidays as one and not be so separated . " <p> Bart Jones has covered religion , immigration and major breaking news at Newsday since 2000 . A former foreign correspondent for The Associated Press in Venezuela , he is the author of " HUGO ! The Hugo Chavez Story from Mud Hut to Perpetual Revolution . "
