<h> Our approach should be humanitarian aid , yes , but no to US reconstruction aid or sanctions relief until Syria is unambiguously not jihadist . <p> A New York Times editorial disguised as a front-page news article demanded , " The West must ease financial controls to help the Syrian economy ... the way forward starts with sanctions relief . " The writer , Patricia Cohen , claims " there is widespread agreement ... the single most important step in rebuilding Syria 's economy can be taken only by the United States : Lift the punishing layers of sanctions . " <p> She said , " We discussed the critical need to ensure terrorist groups can not pose a threat inside Syria or externally , including to the US and our partners in the region . Based on our discussion , I told him that we would not be pursuing the Rewards for Justice reward offered . " According to AP , " She told reporters that al-Sharaa had committed to renouncing terrorism . " <p> Mr. President , taking the $10 million terrorist bounty ( Rewards for Justice ) off the HTS rebel leader 's head does not magically change his historical record as the leader of a radical jihadist organization with blood on his hands . <p> The record of Sunni jihadists taking control of authoritarian states and promising moderation and tolerance for Western acceptance is not encouraging . Look at the Taliban in Afghanistan , the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt , as well as the ongoing chaos in Libya post-Gaddafi . Syria 's de facto leader Ahmed al-Sharaa , also known as Abu Mohammed al-Julani , is seen in Damascus , Syria , on December 23 , 2024. ( credit : AMMAR AWAD/REUTERS ) <p> Let 's look at al-Sharaa 's human rights record before we get giddy and believe the HTS leader 's words . HTS was created 13 years ago by al-Qaeda and ISIS leadership , all US-designated terrorists . The US government reported HTS had " committed the war crime of rape and other forms of sexual violence " last year . <p> Add to that torture , stringent imposition of Sharia law in the Idlib province they have administered in northwest Syria , running secret prisons , killing journalists , repressing women , executing opponents , and using child soldiers . <p> As the Washington Institute 's Counterintelligence and Terrorism expert Matthew Levitt wrote , " America 's Syria policy going forward should be based not on trusting new Syrian officials ' words but on verifying their actions ... before considering the removal of sanctions . " <p> Even more damaging to our security interests , one expert featured in the NYT article suggested that our Syrian Kurdish ally ( SDF/YPG ) abandon its oil field revenue to the jihadist rebels who will lead the next government in Damascus . <p> " Oil previously provided around half of the country 's revenues , said Joshua Landis , co-director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma . Those fields , he said , belong to the government in Damascus and should be returned to its control . " <h> US foreign aid is a valuable tool for advancing national security interests <p> I WRITE this as someone who believes in the importance and effectiveness of US foreign aid creating disproportionate American leverage and influence in relation to the monies we invest , despite the views of isolationists . It is one of the most critical tools to advance our national security interests . <p> Our primary adversary in the world , China , has bested us in Africa , the Middle East , and Asia with its Belt and Road Initiative , undermining our interests by investing in underdeveloped nations . Unfortunately for those nations , they end up accepting unrepayable loans that the Chinese use to manipulate and extort what they want from these poor countries , a blow to US interests . <p> America 's humanitarian impulse is to help civilians affected by the wars in Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria . This noble impulse accords with our value-based interests as a beacon of democracy . But it will be counterproductive and a waste of American taxpayer dollars unless we know the nature of the new government we are assisting and insist on not being taken for a ride . <p> In Lebanon , the government is still dominated by the Iranian proxy Hezbollah . Reconstruction aid is not a good US investment unless the next Lebanese government is freed from the terrorist group . An election is coming up in January , but I would n't hold my breath for real change in the failed state of Lebanon . <p> Propping up the government in the hopes that it will encourage Lebanese Christians , Druze , and Sunnis to become independent from Hezbollah 's grip is like rearranging Beirut 's parliamentary deck chairs on the Titanic . <p> In Gaza , humanitarian aid is essential , but rebuilding the infrastructure of the Gaza Strip before we know for sure Hamas is not returning to power is a poor investment to advance our interests or those of our ally , Israel . <p> Suppose terrorists like Hamas think the civilian areas they use for weapons factories , holding hostages , and hiding munitions will be rebuilt , as they were after previous wars dating back to 2008 . In that case , we are being played again and should say no , thank you . <p> Other than humanitarian aid of water , food , and fuel that is tightly regulated , at arm 's length from NGOs that are in bed with Hamas , e.g. , UNRWA , America should not invest any money in reconstruction until we are convinced Hamas can not be a military or a governing authority again . This will take time and patience . <p> ELON MUSK and Vivek Ramaswamy are in charge of a new American agency , DOGE , with a fiduciary responsibility not to waste taxpayer dollars . They think America should cut our foreign aid budget . <p> Although most Americans think 25% of the US budget goes for overseas aid , in reality , it is closer to 1% . Foreign aid is a potent tool for American influence worldwide on realpolitik and value-based interests . <p> However , this does not mean prematurely giving reconstruction aid to Gaza , Lebanon , and Syria beyond basic humanitarian needs until the chaos and governing authorities are sorted out . <p> Before we start to celebrate the rise of HTS and listen to the UN 's envoy for Syria , Geir Pedersen , who said Syrian rebel leaders had issued " reassuring statements " about forming a government of " unity and inclusiveness , " we need to pause and remember the ideologically driven imperatives of HTS 's radical jihadism . <p> So , while the press reinvents HTS leader Julani , giving him the benefit of the doubt , or the Biden administration prematurely takes the terrorist tag off him , I hope the next administration formulates a plan to help Syria with both carrots and sticks , rewarding tangible moves toward the US position , and continuing the stick of sanctions until it does so . <p> Therefore , our approach should be humanitarian aid , yes , but no to US reconstruction aid or sanctions relief until Syria is unambiguously not jihadist . <p> The writer is director of MEPIN , the Middle East Political Information Network , and the senior security editor of The Jerusalem Report . He regularly briefs members of Congress and their foreign policy aides .
