<h> " Despite this , Israel will continue tirelessly in its efforts to return all of our hostages , " the PMO stated . <p> Demonstrators protest for the release of Israelis held hostage in the Gaza Strip , outside Hakirya Base in Tel Aviv , July 7 , 2024 ( photo credit : ITAI RON/FLASH90 ) <p> Israel and Hamas sparred on Wednesday over the blame for the holdup on a Gaza hostage and ceasefire deal on Wednesday as some hostage families marked a second Hanukkah without their loved ones . <p> The Prime Minister 's Office denied Hamas 's statement that accused Israel of rejecting a hostage deal due to introducing new terms . <p> Hamas said , " The negotiations in Doha have progressed well . We have shown flexibility but Israel has set new conditions regarding the withdrawal from Gaza , the release of prisoners , and a ceasefire . These new conditions are delaying reaching an agreement . " <p> The PMO said in response , " The Hamas terror organization is lying again , going back on the understandings that have already been reached and continues to create difficulties for the negotiations . Despite this , Israel will continue tirelessly in its efforts to return all of our hostages . " <p> A senior Israeli official said the return of the team to Israel was intended to facilitate a status assessment of the negotiations and determine whether decisions by the political echelon , such as expanding the team 's mandate , were necessary . " The team is not returning because of a blowup of negotiations , " the official said . <p> Family members of hostages held by Hamas , who gathered in Tel Aviv 's Hostage Square on Wednesday to light the hanukkiah , called for a hostage deal as reports and rumors surrounding progress on a possible deal continued to circulate . <p> " There have never been better conditions for a deal . This is a historic opportunity . Let 's not miss it , " said Udi Goren , whose cousin Tal Haimi was killed on October 7 and whose body is still held by Hamas . <p> The lighting ceremony was later moved to a different location due to a security threat . <p> " Just yesterday , Israel 's leading analyst reported that Israel 's deterrence is at an all-time high . This is precisely why we , the families , believe we are in the strongest position ever to secure a deal , " Goren added . <h> Support from the US <p> He said support by US President Joe Biden and President-elect Donald Trump has " created an unprecedented opportunity . " <p> " Hamas 's threats have been diminished , Hezbollah and its leadership eliminated , and former Hamas chief Yahya Sinwar is no longer with us . We 've witnessed the implosion of Syria , and Iran 's ' ring of fire ' has been almost destroyed , " he added . <p> Shir Siegel , whose father , Keith , is still held hostage and whose mother , Aviva , was released in the November 2023 deal , also stressed the importance of the current moment . <p> " There are moments in history when every decision is fateful , and these days are precisely such moments . Every moment of delay or hesitation , every postponement in negotiations or the process of bringing our brothers and sisters home could cost lives ; and deprive us of the ability to provide the murdered and the fallen with a proper burial in our land . " <p> She added : " Recently , a priceless opportunity has emerged to bring everyone home with strength and power , " calling on leaders to do everything to " bring everyone home . " <p> " My father 's life and the lives of all the hostages are in your hands . Do n't miss this opportunity . " <p> Lishay Miran Lavi , whose husband , Omri , is still held by Hamas , emphasized the moral aspects of a deal , saying that she has always believed , and now believes more than ever , that no one has the right " to go out and make a decision against saving lives . " <p> " We are talking about human lives , about such wide circles of people who can not move forward because our loved ones are still there . After so many days , and with no end in sight , everyone -- the living , the fallen , and the murdered -- is a humanitarian matter . " <h> Hanukkiah lighting in Tel Aviv <p> At a hanukkiah lighting at Beit Halochem in Tel Aviv with wounded soldiers , President Isaac Herzog said , " Together with you , I yearn , work , and cry out in every possible way for the immediate return of our brothers and sisters being held hostage in Gaza . I do n't believe that last year during Hanukkah anyone thought that 100 of our brothers and sisters would still be in the hands of Hamas terrorists . We are in a critical period for their return ... The hostages are in clear and immediate danger to their lives . With every passing day , the threat to their lives increases . <p> " We face a cruel enemy that seeks in every way to harm us and to obstruct the return of the hostages , using psychological tactics in negotiations , " he continued . <p> " Against this enemy , I know that we are working , and must continue to work , with creativity , determination , responsibility , and boundless commitment to bring them back home by any means necessary , whether to the embrace of their families or to be laid to rest with dignity . <p> Herzog issued a call to leadership to act with all its might , " using every tool at our disposal , to secure a deal . This is your duty . This is your responsibility . " <p> The IDF announced on Wednesday that the army had found and destroyed two large offensive underground Hamas tunnels in the southern and central areas of Gaza . <p> During the strikes , a terrorist cell attempting to plant an explosive device was struck , along with anti-tank positions and terrorist infrastructure , the military said . <p> Separately , an IAF aircraft conducted a precision strike , guided by Military Intelligence and the Southern Command , targeting a Hamas terrorist in the al-Furqan neighborhood of Gaza City . <p> " Prior to the strike , extensive measures were taken to minimize the risk to civilians , including the use of precision weaponry , aerial surveillance , and additional intelligence . The IDF remains committed to acting with strength and determination against terrorist organizations in the Gaza Strip , " the army said . <p> Defense Minister Israel Katz , speaking at the Philadelphi Corridor on the Gaza-Egypt border , said the security of the corridor will remain in IDF hands . <p> " There will be no Hamas governance here and no Hamas military presence . In Gaza as well , we will ensure buffer zones and commanding positions ; and alongside this , we will act to bring all the hostages home -- and to defeat Hamas , " he said .
