<p> Another Hanukkah is upon us , and with it comes a greater responsibility than ever to spread light that cuts through the darkness . <p> With a multifront war ongoing in Israel and antisemitism rising around the world , it may feel difficult or even unnatural to focus on light at a moment like this . Nonetheless , it is time to help the Festival of Lights live up to its name . <p> It is crucial to acknowledge the current challenges and , simultaneously , to keep them in perspective . Growing up around Holocaust survivors -- both in my household and throughout my community - it was always striking how strong , resilient , and hopeful those individuals were despite their experiences with unfathomable darkness . They built their lives around Judaism , family , and love for Israel . <p> Today , we see the same shining qualities from the Israeli people in the aftermath of the heinous atrocities of October 7 . They do not allow trauma and grief to define them . Rather , they respond through volunteerism , connection , engagement , empathy , and bravery . From the soldiers on the battlefield to the family members and friends of the hostages , their grit and determination are unrelenting . <p> In Israel and across the Diaspora , the current generation has something that my parents ' generation did not during the Holocaust -- the tools and the strong identity that empower us to fight back . And the most effective way of fighting back against darkness is to spread light . KARIN MAYER RUBINSTEIN , flanked by Mark Wilf ( left ) chairman of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Agency , and Doron Almog , chairman of the Jewish Agency . ( credit : LIOR DASKAL ) <p> In that regard , world Jewry has resoundingly answered the call since October 7 . From campuses to communities to city councils , advocates for Israel have been energized by an awakening and a unifying force . <p> For many in the global Jewish community , the tragedy of October 7 has made clear a reality that was not as apparent before -- a renewed connection with Israel and a deep understanding of the importance of Israel 's existence are indispensable ingredients to a vibrant Jewish life . <p> Several of The Jewish Agency for Israel 's initiatives demonstrate the extent to which the Diaspora is stepping up for Israel right now . <p> Communities2Gether is pairing 26 Israeli communities highly affected by October 7 with Jewish communities worldwide . Each overseas Jewish community commits to offering at least three years of sustained support to the impacted Israeli town or kibbutz , including financial support of $250,000 annually over three years . <p> Building off the existing success of the Partnership2Gether program , Communities2Gether develops the deep connections that strengthen Jewish communities and a sense of Jewish peoplehood in Israel and worldwide . <p> This past summer , Campers2Gether brought more than 1,500 Israeli teenagers who have been displaced or otherwise affected by the war to Jewish camps in North America and across the Jewish world . This generated positive experiences for the Israeli teens , utilizing the camp community to convey a healing sense of unity while simultaneously providing a platform for global Jewish youth to understand Israel on a personal level . <h> Support of Jews worldwide <p> The generous support of Jews worldwide also enables The Jewish Agency to operate and expand essential programs such as Youth Futures and the Fund for Victims of Terror . <p> One of Israel 's leading positive-intervention programs , Youth Futures partners teen mentors with at-risk children for a long-term period of cooperative learning and growth . The Jewish Agency recently announced a $13 million expansion that will double the program 's budget and enable it to serve 1,600 additional children nationwide . Youth Futures is also now formally recognized as a national program for rehabilitating children . <p> The Fund for Victims of Terror is operating on a wider scale than ever before , given the number of murdered on October 7 and the extent of the property damage throughout communities in the Gaza border region . <p> In as quickly as 48 hours following a terrorist attack , every single individual who suffers either injuries or property damage receives a $1,000 check from the Fund for immediate needs . The Fund also provides long-term rehabilitation grants for up to three years and ongoing support to the victims as they navigate the days after an attack , with this financial support totaling approximately $6,000 . <p> Now , The Jewish Agency is using this Hanukkah to double down on spreading the light . We are organizing " Global Glow , " the world 's largest digital hanukkiah , connecting Jewish communities from every corner of the globe . <p> Participants light a virtual candle to be part of this unequivocal display of unity , while the resulting digital hanukkiah is also being projected throughout the eight days of Hanukkah on the National Institutions building in Jerusalem and on billboards at central junctions across Israel . <p> Global Glow underscores the special connection between Israel and the Diaspora . This connection is a source of light , building the Jewish people 's strength , resilience , and hope . In defiance of darkness , our light will continue to grow , just like the miracle in which one day 's worth of oil grew to last for eight days . <p> This will be our legacy -- a legacy of light . <p> The writer is chairman of the Board of Governors of The Jewish Agency for Israel .
