<h> How much room do growth and unity take up in our consciousness ? <h> Beyond the headlines : A weekly glimpse into the Israel you wo n't read about in the news . <p> How much room do growth and unity take up in our consciousness ? ( photo credit : sivanrahavmeir.com ) <p> What was Joseph 's first statement to Pharaoh ? Remember : Joseph was incarcerated for 12 years in an Egyptian jail when suddenly he was taken out of his cell and brought to the palace to interpret Pharaoh 's dreams . <p> Since we would expect that Joseph would try to dazzle the king with his brilliance , it 's astonishing to hear the first words that come out of his mouth : " Not I ! God will bring an answer that will bring peace to the Pharaoh , " that is to say , it 's not me -- it 's God . I am only the medium , the messenger . Joseph expresses his faith in a simple and straightforward way . He then succeeds in interpreting Pharaoh 's dreams and is ultimately chosen to oversee the entire Egyptian economy . <p> Joseph 's approach reflects the Jewish worldview : He teaches us to make an effort and strive for success in all areas of our lives . But , at the same time , we need to keep in mind who is the ultimate source of our success , who provides us with the tools to succeed , and whom we are representing in this world . <p> In the end , it was the man who said , " Not I ! " whom the king of Egypt could not do without . <h> Who 's telling you the story ? <p> I heard a profound statement this week : " Even the story of the Exodus from Egypt can be told by Pharaoh , not Moses . " In other words , the question in life is : Who is telling you the story ? Who interprets reality for you , explains the bigger picture , and provides the vision of where we are headed and why ? Joseph recognized by his brothers , by L ? on Pierre Urbain Bourgeois , 1863 oil on canvas , at the Mus ? e Municipal Fr ? d ? ric Blandin , Nevers ( credit : L ? on Pierre Urbain Bourgeois/Wikimedia ) <p> Last week , a series of positive , constructive events was highlighted in this space , generating an unusual number of responses . People were eager to share more such stories and to hear about them as well . The following is another collection of recent events that have taken place in Israel . Ask yourself : Have you heard about them ? How much room do growth and unity take up in our consciousness ? <h> A new settlement near Arad : Mitzpeh Yehonatan <p> A new settlement was established in the Negev last week , just two kilometers north of the city of Arad , by a group of 20 young families with dozens of children . This initiative , supported by Arad 's mayor , Yair Maayan , and the Hashomer Hachadash organization , overcame many obstacles and acted swiftly to create something meaningful on the ground . <p> This area , the Arad Valley , has been known as a hotspot for thieves . One of the new residents wrote to me : " Even before all the inquiries and committees , the events of October 7 teach us to take responsibility . We want to protect the Negev 's land and create a different security reality . " <p> But this is n't just about security . The settlement will also focus on agriculture , and the local education system is already benefiting : over 50 children have been enrolled in Arad 's schools , reversing its negative migration trend . It 's not just about 20 families -- this is a revival of the ethos of settlement across the country , showing others the way . <p> The story behind the name " Mitzpeh Yehonatan " is deeply moving : The training base of the Nahal Brigade is nearby , and the brigade commander , Yehonatan Steinberg , met with the project initiators just before Rosh Hashanah 5784 . He was enthusiastic about the initiative . On Simchat Torah , he fell in battle while saving lives . The new settlement honors his name . <h> Remarkable resilience <p> In Kibbutz Be'eri , for the first time since the horrific massacre of October 7 , a Bar Mitzvah was held for Adam Biton in an emotional ceremony . Adam 's grandfather lost his sister during the attack , and Adam himself endured 16 hours in a reinforced shelter with his family . This week , he returned to Be'eri and was called up to the Torah in the kibbutz 's synagogue . Mazal tov , Adam . <p> Agriculture , too , reflects this spirit of resilience . For the first time , a new variety of barley for Israeli whiskey was sown in the fields of Be'eri , which had recently been a battlefield . Chaim Yellin described the significance : " It 's the first time we 're sowing barley locally and not relying on imports . Everything is new : the land , the varieties , and the water . There 's excitement and hope , activity that momentarily overshadows the pain , connecting people to the land . May we soon be able to make a toast together with the freed captives . " <p> Meanwhile , in Kibbutz Nir Oz , a symbolic farewell and demolition ceremony marked the beginning of reconstruction . " The Blue Garden , " a prominent community building , was taken down in a bittersweet event to pave the way for a new beginning . With most of the kibbutz 's homes damaged and a quarter of its population murdered or kidnapped , rebuilding begins with destruction . The invitation to the event read : " This is a moment of strength for a community rising to rebuild from the ruins . " It ended with a phrase that has guided the Gaza envelope communities for years : " Not weary travelers , but pathfinders . " <h> The spirit among hostage families <p> These are incredibly tense days , requiring strength and resilience in the face of rumors , fake news , and the enemy 's attempts to sow discord . <p> More than 200 women gathered in Kiryat Bialik last week to mark the 22nd birthday of hostage Matan Angrest . His mother , Anat , shared how the Jewish people 's support gives her strength as she launched the " Good Deeds for Matan " initiative in partnership with the local Chabad House . Participants are encouraged to visit the website and choose a positive act or mitzvah in his honor . " This , too , is a form of protest , " one attendee said at the end of the evening . <p> In Petah Tikva , the Gilboa family will hold a ceremony for the installation of a new Torah scroll in honor of their kidnapped daughter , Daniela . Her mother , Orly , excitedly shared the invitation . The event will begin at their home and proceed to a nearby synagogue , uniting all sectors of the community . It will conclude with a festive Chanukah candle-lighting ceremony in the hope that light will soon overcome the darkness . <p> Last , Shabbat was declared " Shabbat for the Hostages . " Community Shabbat gatherings took place in city streets , the names of the hostages were mentioned in prayers , and everyone was encouraged to add light and goodness on their behalf . <p> These are just a few examples of events that are nearly unknown to the media but which are incredibly powerful and significant . May we know how to tell the story properly .
