<p> Hundreds of pro-Palestinian protesters are gathered to protest the Israeli offensives in Gaza outside the Federal Building in San Francisco , May 31 , 2024. ( photo credit : Tayfun Coskun/Anadolu via Getty Images ) <p> A group of Northern California residents has filed a class-action lawsuit against their congressional representatives , Democrats Mike Thompson and Jared Huffman , accusing them of causing harm to local communities and to Palestinians in Gaza by voting to send billions in US military aid to Israel . <p> The lawsuit , filed Thursday in San Francisco federal court , claims the lawmakers caused " moral and emotional/psychic injury " to taxpayers by voting for aid that , the plaintiffs allege , contributes to genocide in Gaza . Both Israel and the Biden administration reject that Israel is committing genocide in its war against Hamas in Gaza . <p> The lawsuit is the latest example of how debates over Israel and Gaza have moved to the courts since the outbreak of the war following Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 , attack . Several months ago , federal courts dismissed a lawsuit by pro-Palestinian groups , also filed in the Bay Area , accusing the Biden administration of complicity in a genocide . A federal appeals court panel confirmed a ruling by a lower court that the judiciary can not intervene to change the government 's foreign policy . <p> Survivors of the Oct. 7 attack and Jewish groups have filed a series of suits over the attack against pro-Palestinian nonprofits , the United Nations ' Palestinian aid agency UNRWA and foreign governments allied with Hamas . In addition , Jewish students have filed suit against multiple universities accusing them of not taking sufficient measures against antisemitism on campus . <p> The Bay Area case seeks to bar Thompson and Huffman from approving future military aid to Israel and demands damages for the emotional distress caused by war , including " uncontrollable weeping , inability to sleep , distractions from work , despair for the future of their children and humanity . " People hold placards and flags during a demonstration in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza , ahead of the October 7 attack anniversary , amid the Israel-Hamas conflict , in Dublin , Ireland October 5 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/CLODAGH KILCOYNE ) <p> At a press conference outside the courthouse where the lawsuit was filed , Linda Helland , a Mendocino County resident and plaintiff , said the representatives ' votes make her and other constituents " complicit " in the violence . Another plaintiff , Palestinian American Tarik Kanaana of Sonoma County , said Thompson 's actions amounted to aiding in " the killing of my own people . " <h> Nearly two dozen plaintiffs so far <p> Twenty one plaintiffs are named in the lawsuit but organizers are aiming to add as many as 1,000 participants if the court allows the lawsuit to proceed . A lawyer for the plaintiffs said the lawsuit , with its focus on the rights of taxpayers , was designed differently than the one that was tossed out . <p> " We 're not asking the court to tell Congress to make policy , " attorney Dean Royer told the Chronicle . " We 're asking the court to say taxpayer dollars can not be used to fund genocide . " <p> The positions of Thompson and Huffman reflect those of many Democratic lawmakers who back Israel 's right to defend itself from Hamas , but have called for minimizing civilian casualties . In April , they voted in favor of a $26.4 billion military aid package for Israel . Thompson and Huffman have also expressed support for a ceasefire and long-term solutions , including a two-state framework that would see a Palestinian state established alongside Israel . <p> " Congressman Thompson understands that it has been the civilian population that has paid the cost of Hamas ' terrorist attack on Israel and he remains gravely concerned about the scale of civilian loss in this war , " read a statement from the congressman 's office to local media . " That 's why he has advocated and continues to advocate for the Biden Administration to work with the State Department and our allies to help secure a negotiated bilateral ceasefire , the immediate release of all hostages , and the establishment of a two-state solution to ensure peace and self-determination for the Palestinian and Israeli people . "
