<p> President-elect Donald Trump 's onetime national security adviser warns that his former boss returning to the White House will significantly increase the risk of " an international crisis . " <p> John Bolton -- who served as Trump 's national security adviser for 17 months from April 2018 to September 2019 -- dismissed the president-elect 's claims that he is uniquely positioned to resolve international conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza in an interview with The Guardian . He called it " typical Trump : it 's all braggadocio . " <p> On the contrary , Bolton warned that Trump is poised to take office in a " more dangerous " world than when he was first elected , adding that he worried about the instability of Trump 's decision-making , which he likened to " a series of neuron flashes . " <p> Bolton , 76 , noted that the re-elected and emboldened Trump could be even more erratic the second time around . " He now feels more confident in his judgement having been re-elected , which will make it even harder to impose any kind of intellectual decision-making discipline , " he told the U.K. newspaper . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " The risk of an international crisis of the 19th century variety is much more likely in a second Trump term , " Bolton said . " Given Trump 's inability to focus on coherent decision-making , I 'm very worried about how that might look . " <p> Even before taking office , Trump has begun making erratic demands of foreign countries that have taken even some of his advisers by surprise . He threatened Canada and Mexico with 25 percent tariffs -- and humorously mused about turning the former into the 51st state -- and has suggested the U.S. take over Greenland and the Panama Canal . <p> Bolton also suggested Trump is jealous of authoritarians Vladimir Putin of Russia and and Viktor Orb ? n of Hungary , who Bolton said " do n't have pesky independent legislatures and judiciaries and they do big guy things that Trump ca n't do and he just wishes he could do . " <p> Bolton said he believes Trump considers his relationship with Putin to be a friendship , but says Putin believes " Trump 's an easy mark . " <p> Bolton was reportedly pushed out of Trump 's first administration at Tucker Carlson 's urging . As a senior diplomat in former President George W. Bush 's administration , he was a staunch advocate for the Iraq War , which he continues to defend . <p> Bolton 's own former colleagues alleged he distorted intelligence to fit his own biases , including making embellished and unsubstantiated claims that Cuba was trying to develop biological weapons . Trump once described himself as " the one that tempers " Bolton , rather than the other way around . <p> Samsung 's CES presser is always an odd duck . The Korean electronics giant generally keeps its powder dry when it comes to consumer electronics . Samsung has adopted the tagline " AI for All : Everyday , Everywhere " for the presentation , which kicks off on January 6 at 2 p.m . PT/5 p.m . ET . <p> President-elect Donald Trump has confirmed reports that Sriram Krishnan , until recently a general partner at Andreessen Horowitz ( a16z ) , will serve as senior policy advisor for AI at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy . " I 'm honored to be able to serve our country and ensure continued American leadership in AI , " Krishnan wrote . <p> With a U.S. TikTok ban scheduled to take effect in less than a month , President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that he 'd like to keep the app around , according to Reuters . " We 're going to have to start thinking because , you know , we did go on TikTok , and we had a great response with billions of views , billions and billions of views , " Trump told supporters at an event in Phoenix , Arizona . Trump reportedly met with TikTok 's CEO on Monday and said afterward that he has a " warm spot " in his heart for the app . <p> On today 's episode of The College Football Enquirer , Dan Wetzel , Ross Dellenger and SI 's Pat Forde revisit the quality of the first round of the College Football Playoff . They discuss if the TV ratings indicate the playoff needs to avoid expanding further and provide suggestions on how to fix the opening slate .
