<h> One illegal border crossing they can let slide <p> Sarasota , Fla. : Homeland Security officers in Phoenix stopped an elderly man from entering the United States in a strange aircraft last night . The man , described as " overweight , heavily bearded and wearing a red and white party costume , " was being held pending further investigation . Nine small reindeer or caribou , referred to as " possible undocumented aliens , " were also taken into custody . One , with an unusual glowing red nose , was immediately placed in quarantine and was examined by government veterinarians . <p> " We do not see this gentleman as a threat , " said a Homeland Security spokesperson , " although we were initially suspicious when he kept repeating the words , ' Ho , Ho , Ho . ' Ho , as you know , is the first name of an infamous North Vietnamese Communist leader , Ho Chi Minh . But we decided it was a harmless greeting of some sort . " <p> When asked how many packages the man was bringing into the country , the official would only say that the number was " in the millions . " Sources confirmed that the detainee 's name was not on any government no-fly list , and he was expected to be released as soon as local agents finished examining his baggage . " In this job , you never know who 's coming through the door next , " said one anonymous border guard . " Last spring , we had to deal with a giant bunny carrying a basketful of eggs . We asked Washington for guidance , but nobody there was very helpful . " <p> Neither political party had an immediate comment , but given the mood in Washington , many senators and representatives predicted that this would probably be their only chance to agree on any issue in the coming year . Pete Tannen <h> Helping the rich be rich <p> Staten Island : We do n't have massive federal debt because of Social Security or Medicare . We do n't have massive federal debt because of liberal policies . We have massive federal debt because we 've been subsidizing the rich for too long . Michael Rosenkrantz <h> Mush-mouthed <p> Brooklyn : Does anyone else notice that AOC speaks word salad language just like Kamala Harris does ? She loves the word " transparency , " which is ironic because most of the country sees right through her . Rocco Conte <h> Betrayal ? <p> White Plains , N.Y. : Many NYC police and firefighters voted for Donald Trump . I wonder how they feel now that Trump and Elon Musk stopped Congress from supporting the 9/11 first responders ' health care . This is just the beginning of a four-year disaster ! Steve Howell <h> Electability <p> Howard Beach : When half the country voted for a man who was convicted of sexual abuse and accused by more than two dozen women of sexual harassment , it certainly is a positive sign that Matt Gaetz stands a very good chance of being elected governor of Florida . Barbara Berg <h> There 's a right way <p> Clearwater , Fla. : Even far-right conservatives like myself can agree with this newspaper 's assessment that America urgently needs to replenish its declining population through new immigration . I fully support the notion that one of the key ingredients to our country 's past success has been the strength and diversity that immigrants have brought . However , your recent editorial ( " Immigration is good for America , " Dec. 23 ) overlooked a crucial element in the immigration debate : It must be legal . There 's a significant difference between following the rules and simply bypassing them . The immigration process should be conducted according to the law , just as it was for the vast majority of immigrants in past decades . It was never easy or automatic . Immigrants were required to study U.S. history , pass a citizenship test and undergo a slow and difficult process to become Americans . They did n't simply " sneak in " and get handed a free pass , complete with hotel stays and prepaid flights . Jeff Morey <h> A life for a life <p> Kew Gardens Hills : " Brooklyn DA vows justice in subway torching of woman ; ' migrant ' ID 'd by students " ( Dec. 24 ) read your front page yesterday . First of all , the district attorney can never get true justice for the victim of this horrific crime because , unfortunately , there is no death penalty in New York . And please call Sebastian Zapeta exactly what he is : a lowlife illegal alien who snuck into our country to do harm . Zapeta is the poster boy for a gurney and a needle . Just let me know where and when to show up and I will be more than happy to push the plunger and rid the world of this scum . Barry Koppel <h> Right on <p> Brooklyn : To Voicer T.S . Fallani : I say brava ! Thank you for having the coglioni to say the truth to Voicers John Gelormino and D.A . Weinberg . They and many other MAGA sycophants speak out of two sides of their mouths . As Fallani stated , they are hateful bigots , blasphemously worshiping their demon-spawn god , and welcoming POTUS #2 ( Musk ) , an immigrant who came here illegally and shrewdly found a way to worm his way into our White House . And they weave their origin stories so neatly , only to justify their racist views of the current immigrants trying to stay alive and make new beginnings here for their families . I stand with you , T.S . Fallani . Merry Christmas indeed ! Susan Cassano <h> She 's a contender <p> Southampton , L.I. : To citizens of the five boroughs : Elect Jessica Tisch as your mayor . Eric Adams is an embarrassing disgrace to your city . Ray Butler <h> Bearing the unbearable <p> Hallandale , Fla. : How utterly futile to bear witness to 445 days ( and counting ) of Israel 's senseless bombardment of Gaza 's unarmed population . With Gaza having been reduced to unsustainable conditions , it seems unfathomable to citizens of conscience that Western nations , including the U.S. , refuse to intervene to finally stop the genocide of a people . The few trucks that attempt to deliver food to a starving population are often attacked ; the most recent attempt included the killing of four security guards by Israeli forces . Children , including amputees who lie in demolished hospitals , are deprived of being sent for critical treatment to the U.S. , the U.K. and EU member states . Ninety-six percent of children in Gaza fear imminent death . The list of horrors , torment and atrocities continues unabated while too many in our population seem entirely deaf to Gaza 's ordeal . We need to clamor for immediate cessation of money , bombs and weapons to Israel while their genocide rages . Sid Sussman <h> Uh-oh <p> Brooklyn : On Monday , I started the TV Crossword , and by the third clue , I knew something was different . Ricky Cruz was back again . Why , especially when you published letters thanking you for the return of Jacqueline Matthews ? I look forward to the TV Crossword every day , and now I will have to give up doing it . Matthews ' puzzles were comfortable ; Cruz 's are not . Please explain what happened . Esther Berkowitz <h> Not again <p> Point Pleasant , N.J. : Just when I thought it was safe to go back to doing the TV Crossword , you bring back Ricky Cruz . Make up your minds . Once again : Bring back Jacqueline ! Gene Speroni <h> Do n't punish us <p> Tarrytown , N.Y. : Watching Joel Embiid receive two technical fouls and get thrown out of the game would usually have me overjoyed . Lately , this is happening too frequently in the NBA . Players are complaining about the officiating and are receiving two quick technical fouls , which is an automatic ejection from the game . By the way , officiating has been atrocious and one of the biggest reasons for reduced NBA viewership . The NBA needs to adopt a new rule , maybe a delay-of-game warning . The player would need to sit out of the game for five to 10 minutes . Ultimately , the sold-out arenas of fans are there to watch the players perform . A frustrating moment during a heated game should not result in depriving the fans of their entertainment . Stephen Talenti <h> Acquire talent <p> North Arlington , N.J. : To Steve Cohen : I am 85 and have been a Mets fan since 1962 . Every morning , I get my copy of The News from my front porch , hoping to see a headline that reads " Alonso signs with Mets . " That has not happened yet . You are not going to win a championship because you signed Juan Soto . We need Pete Alonso , Francisco Lindor and Brandon Nimmo as well as another pitcher . Barbara Sciortino
