<h> Along with highlighting the abuse suffered by hostages in Hamas captivity , the report also outlined hostages ' struggles after their release and return home . <p> Families of Israelis held hostage by Hamas terrorists in Gaza standing outside a tunnel installation at Hostages Square in Tel Aviv on January 13 , 2024 ( photo credit : TOMER NEUBERG/FLASH90 ) <p> Israel has drafted an official report to be submitted to the United Nations that details the abuse inflicted upon hostages who survived Hamas captivity , N12 news site reported on Wednesday . <p> The report specifically outlines the conditions of hostages released in the November 2023 deal , the Israeli media outlet noted . <p> N12 stated that the report includes extensive testimonies from released hostages who were deliberately separated from their family members who were also taken hostage on October 7 . <h> Hostage women turned into slaves by terrorists , N12 reports <p> Children taken hostage were forced to watch videos of the October 7 massacre , hostages underwent surgeries without anesthesia or proper medication , others were forced to soil themselves , and female hostages were turned into slaves , N12 stated , citing the report . <p> According to the report , shortly prior to the hostages ' release , Hamas increased food portions to create the impression that hostages were kept in good condition . N12 reported that children lost between 5-10 kg. in weight , while adults lost around 15 kg . A woman casts a shadow as she walks past a banner calling for the release of the hostages kidnapped during the deadly October 7 , 2023 attack by Hamas , amid the ongoing conflict in Gaza between Israel and Hamas , in Tel Aviv , Israel , December 5 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/Stoyan Nenov TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY ) <p> Along with highlighting the abuse suffered by hostages in Hamas captivity , the report also outlined hostages ' struggles after their release and return home . <p> The report noted that released hostages suffer from severe trauma , with many rarely leaving their homes , struggling to return to routines , and being afraid to sleep alone . Many still suffer from physical pain and released children struggle with food , either hoarding food or eating less .
