<h> The last day of the four-dayer includes the annual gathering of the World Federation of Tunisian Jewry and the community 's Eid al-Banat festivities . <p> Gil Ron Shama wants us to come together , and music , he believes , is the way to go about it . <p> The 52-year-old musician , storyteller , dancer , and producer intends to proffer the street-level collateral for that viewpoint at the Bamizrach ( In The East ) Festival , which takes place in Lod December 26-29 , with Shama serving as artistic director for the second year in succession . <p> The ninth edition of the festival finds us still at war , with around 100 Israelis and others languishing in Gaza , and the country as a whole no less traumatized by the Hamas barbarism unleashed on our southern communities last October 7 . <p> Notwithstanding the lamentable national and personal state of affairs , Shama feels the time is ripe for bridging gaps and for healing , and that he can help us proceed along that desirable course of action . <p> He certainly has the street cred to give it a shot . " Following my work as artistic director of the Mekudeshet Festival and the Sufi Festival , the Lod Municipality and asked me to create a festival fueled by the demographic mosaic of the city , a festival which has across-the-board appeal but also digs deep into the ethnic roots , " Shama explains . " I take and break down Lod 's ethnic and traditional domain , and forge this musical odyssey based on that cross section . " <p> That manifold approach resonates in the program of events and concerts across the four days , with the likes of ethnically leaning rock megastar Berry Sakharof filling the guest artist berth at the Diwan Halev date when the ensemble -- founded by Shama -- brings the curtain down on the festival at Heichal Hatarbut ( December 29 , 8:30 p.m . ) . The show forms part of the troupe 's ongoing 20th anniversary national circuit , with Shama et al . performing traditional Eastern Jewish music with more than the odd contemporary twist . <p> As around one-quarter of Lod 's residents are Arabs , I presumed Shama 's programming takes that into account , despite the principal line of festival genre thinking pointing firmly in the direction of Jewish liturgical music , albeit from Arabic-speaking climes . <h> Content connected to Eastern culture , including Arabic <p> " Most of the content is connected to Eastern culture , which , in fact , includes a lot of Arabic , " Shama notes . We return to the common denominator theme . " There are things in the world of music which are not separate or divisive , as they are in the geopolitical arena . " Thank god for that . <p> Shama says the proof of the unison pudding is right there in full view . " If an Arab from Lod sits in the audience of a concert of music from the Tunisian Jewish community , he will hear Tunisian music sung in Arabic . " <p> That may be so , but in general Jewish liturgical music is sung in Hebrew , and often in the synagogue . Surely , for a Muslim or Christian , that will require some cerebral and cultural flexing . <p> Shama brings us back to the melodic side of the tracks , with some added harmonic inter-community coalescing . " A large portion of the piyutim Jewish liturgical songs are based on Arabic folk tunes . Again , there are no divisions in the world of liturgical music , because the majority of this material dates back to a time when Jews and Arabs shared the ' diwan ' -- the space where sacred songs are sung . Two hundred years ago , when a Jewish singer sang ' Allah , ' that did not entail any of the political Zionist inflation , " Shama points out . " It just meant ' God . ' When a Jew and a Muslim sat together on a street in Egypt and sang together , there were different connotations involved , without any political baggage . " <p> That sounds entirely refreshing and suggests that one can , indeed , get away from all the political and sociopolitical fissures simply by singing , or listening to , music together . <p> He took his first steps in the performing arena in the wildly successful world music band Sheva , which , back in the late nineties and early 2000s , was pretty much the musical spearhead of the then highly popular New Age scene here . <p> He recalls those halcyon days and notes that each of the seven band members brought something else to the communal fray . <p> " Mine was my love for the Hebrew language , " he says . " That was my trip . We do n't have oil or diamonds here . This country 's great treasure is the language . " <p> That naturally led Shama in the direction of liturgical material and the works of some of the great writers , such as 11th-century poet and philosopher Shmuel Ibn Gvirol and late-11th-century , early-12th-century rabbi , philosopher , linguist , and poet Moshe Ibn Ezra . <p> The rise of New Age culture here was largely spawned by people coming home from post-army backpacking sojourns in India , some of whom brought the custom of sacred singing circles with them . <p> " I said , let 's do that in Hebrew , " Shama recalls . " I wanted to connect our past with everything we brought with us from India . " <p> SHAMA IS still at the forefront of that endeavor , which informs his programmatic choices for the Bamizrach Festival . <p> The last day of the four-dayer includes the annual gathering of the World Federation of Tunisian Jewry and the community 's Eid al-Banat festivities , which have been marked for millennia and celebrate the lead women have taken throughout Jewish history in the realms of rebellion , heroism and sacrifice . <p> Media personality Jackie Levy , whose family hails from Tunisia , will be on hand to relate some tales of yore , with liturgical singer ( paytan ) Daniel Saadon performing the musical slot and writer Esther Dagan Kaniel sharing some textual gems with the audience . <p> There is also an original festival-specific production in the lineup , which takes place at Heichal Hatarbut on December 28 ( 8:30 p.m . ) . The show stars radio presenter-cum-vocalist Livnat Ben-Hamou and singer-songwriter Orian Shukrun . <p> " Livnat went through a kind of personal transformation in the wake of COVID-19 and the war , and came into public view as a singer , " Shama explains . " This show is about very personal singing , but also very troubadour-like , and also liturgical . Livnat connects with her Moroccan roots . " <p> There is some added value too . " Livnat and Orian will host veteran singer-songwriter Micha Shitrit . It is going to be something special . " <p> For tickets and more information : ( 08 ) 698-6167 and lod.smarticket.co.il
