<h> Pope calls for peace on Christmas as church begins Jubilee year celebrations <p> Pope Francis greeted the crowd from the main balcony of St. Peter 's basilica after his semi-annual message and blessing to the city and the world as part of Christmas celebrations , at St Peter 's Square in the Vatican.TIZIANA FABI/AFP via Getty Images <p> As Christians around the world celebrated Christmas on Wednesday , Pope Francis called for peace , asking that cease-fires be put in place where wars rage , and that world leaders forgive the debts " that burden the poorest countries . " <p> Speaking to the thousands gathered in St. Peter 's Square in Vatican City for his Christmas blessing and message , Francis returned to the topic of two military conflicts that have dominated his thoughts -- and his public remarks -- for many months . <p> In Ukraine , he called for " the boldness needed to open the door to negotiation and to gestures of dialogue and encounter , in order to achieve a just and lasting peace . " <p> And he urged that " the sound of arms be silenced in the Middle East . " His thoughts , he said , were with Christians in the Gaza Strip , " where the humanitarian situation is extremely grave " for all who live there . Francis urged the delivery of aid " to the people worn out by hunger and by war " in Gaza , as well as a cease-fire and the release of the hostages who have been held since the Hamas-led attack on Israel 14 months ago . <p> He made the remarks a day after the start of the Roman Catholic Church 's Holy Year , known as a Jubilee , which takes place every quarter century . On Tuesday evening , Francis opened the Holy Door in St. Peter 's Basilica so that the first pilgrims could go through . Millions more are expected to follow over the year . <p> Advertisement <p> Hope is the theme of the Jubilee year , and on Wednesday Francis invited " every individual , and all peoples and nations , to find the courage needed to walk through that door , to become pilgrims of hope , to silence the sound of arms and overcome divisions . " <p> Holy doors will be opened in Rome 's main basilicas and also in the city 's Rebibbia prison , which the pope is expected to visit on Thursday . Jesus awaits all people , Francis said . " He awaits prisoners who , everything notwithstanding , are still children of God . " <p> The pope 's solemn blessing and message , titled " To the City and to the World , " is delivered twice a year , and on Wednesday Francis spoke from a balcony on the facade of the basilica . The tens of thousands packing the square cheered loudly when the pope appeared . <p> Advertisement <p> Vatican and Italian bands played the Italian national anthem and the pontifical anthem . Francis is the sovereign of the Vatican City State . <p> In his Christmas message , Francis pleaded for peace and dialogue around the world , citing conflicts including those in Lebanon , Myanmar , Syria , and the Horn of Africa . He spoke of " the devastating effects of climate change , resulting in the loss of life and the displacement of millions of people . " He asked that hope touch " the families of thousands of children who are dying from an outbreak of measles in the Democratic Republic of Congo . " <p> And he prayed that the Jubilee , a moment of faith and reconciliation , would " be an opportunity to tear down all walls of separation , the ideological walls that so often mark political life . " <p> In his Christmas Eve homily on Tuesday , Francis also focused on hope , saying that it " calls us to become pilgrims in search of truth , dreamers who never tire , women and men open to being challenged by God 's dream of a new world where peace and justice reign . " <p> Francis urged the faithful to get out of their comfort zone and think of others . Hope calls people to be " bold , responsible , and compassionate , " he said . " All of us have received the gift and task of bringing hope wherever hope has been lost , lives broken , promises unkept , dreams shattered , and hearts overwhelmed by adversity . " <p> The opening of the Holy Door and Christmas celebrations kick off what will be a challenging year for Francis , who turned 88 this month and now habitually switches between a wheelchair and a cane during public appearances . Dozens of events are scheduled throughout the year , and Romans are girding for a large influx of pilgrims on top of the 20 million tourists who visited the city this year . <p> Advertisement <p> For some years now , Francis ' health has been a source of concern . The pontiff was hospitalized for colon surgery in 2021 , and in 2023 for a respiratory infection and a hernia . <p> After Francis spoke , the bands again played the anthems , and then marched under his gaze . People in the crowd cheered : " Viva il papa " -- " Long live the pope . "
