<h> How a Sudanese refugee made my Christmas less pessimistic <p> People hug near the state Christmas trees outside of the White House in Washington , DC , as the US capital readies for the Christmas holiday on December 6 , 2024 Photo by Allison Robert/AFP <p> As a child growing up in the 1980s in Washington , DC , Christmas was a time when the usual monotony of my Catholic school existence gave way to an indescribable magic . It was not so much the presents as the sense that reality had been temporarily suspended and replaced by something far more invigorating -- which I suppose is part of the reason I insisted on believing in Santa Claus until I was 10 years old . <p> Of course , mine was a relatively privileged childhood in the United States capital , an imperial headquarters that continues to this day to embody the racism and socioeconomic inequality that governs life in the so-called " land of the free . " While I knew vaguely of such domestic issues growing up , I knew even less of my country 's contributions to global suffering ; in my birth year of 1982 , for example , Washington had greenlit the Israeli invasion of Lebanon that killed tens of thousands of people . <p> Closer to home , the decade of the 1980s was characterised by US backing for mass right-wing slaughter in Central America , all in the noble pursuit of making the world safe for capitalism . That the tedium of Catholic school was my greatest earthly complaint meant that I was doing much better than a whole lot of folks -- something that became even clearer when I abandoned the US in 2003 , at the age of 21 , in favour of an itinerant lifestyle that brought me into contact with the fallout of US misdeeds from Colombia to Vietnam . <p> Advertisement <p> I am now 42 , and I did not have high hopes for Christmas when in mid-December I flew from Mexico to DC , where my parents had returned to live -- following their own lengthy stretch abroad -- shortly before my father 's death last year . This year , it was not just my dad 's absence that seemed to preemptively put a damper on festivities . The potential for indescribable magic would seem to have been fairly soundly obliterated by the dismal terrestrial state of affairs and the US-backed Israeli genocide that continues to rage in the Gaza Strip , where almost the entire population has been forcibly displaced . <p> Meanwhile , America 's conversion of Christmas into a giant traffic jam of Amazon delivery trucks merely drives home the all-consuming presence of apocalyptic capitalism and the reduction of humanity to an infinite soul-sucking series of economic transactions . <p> And yet , ironically , my first inkling of holiday cheer here in DC was triggered by just such a transaction-based interaction , when a Sudanese driver working for the ride-share company my mother uses gave me a hug . <p> Hailing from the Sudanese capital of Khartoum , the man -- we 'll call him Alsafi -- had registered his enthusiasm at the sight of my " Free Palestine " sweatshirt when he arrived to pick me up . Also 42 , he had worked as a human rights lawyer in Sudan -- itself no stranger to systematic killing and mass forced displacement -- prior to fleeing the country in 2013 after one too many arrest-and-torture sessions . <p> Upon getting to the United States , however , Alsafi had determined that the American dream was not at all what it was cracked up to be . Not only did he regularly find himself on the receiving end of overtly racist comportment , he had also quickly tired of the oppressive consumerism that has become a substitute for life itself . He , too , was now plotting his exit from the country . Needless to say , we had much to talk about . <p> Advertisement <p> Days before Christmas , Alsafi invited me to dinner at a lowkey Ethiopian restaurant in Arlington , Virginia , just across the bridge from DC . I had spent a month in Ethiopia in 2016 ; Alsafi had spent several months there in 2013 in between fleeing Sudan and relocating to the United States . Over Ethiopian Habesha beer and injera bearing mounds of lentils and collard greens , I heard some of the details of Alsafi 's Sudanese carceral experiences . <p> During one of his detentions , he was blindfolded and beaten while his torturers continuously commanded him to move to the corner of the room . He stumbled around in search of the corner , to no avail . " It was funny , " he remarked to me with a genuine laugh . " When they took the blindfold off , I saw there were no corners in the room after all . It was round . " <p> Alsafi was not a fan of driving , but had to put in long hours in order to support his family in Egypt and the United Arab Emirates , where they had sought refuge from Sudan 's ongoing violence . On the drive back to my mother 's place in DC , he pointed out key landmarks in a geography he by now knew far better than I : the Pentagon building , the Watergate hotel , the patch of tents housing homeless persons whom Alsafi informed me had also been forcibly displaced in the interest of " security " when in July Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had descended upon the US capital to make the case for genocide . <p> There was something paradoxically uplifting about our shared pessimism , and the evening ended with another hug in front of my mom 's apartment building -- the lobby of which now hosted a gigantic Christmas tree and an ever-multiplying heap of Amazon delivery boxes . Alsafi went on his way , and I was left with the reminder that even in capitalist-conquered society there are still humans out there -- which might just be as magical as it gets . <p> Advertisement <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
