<p> Iran said it will start easing some of the world 's tightest internet restrictions by lifting its ban on WhatsApp and Google Play -- a sign that authorities want to placate domestic opponents as the Islamic Republic faces major economic and foreign-policy challenges . <p> Earlier on Tuesday , Iran 's Supreme Council of Cyberspace approved the lifting of blocks on " certain widely used foreign platforms " according to the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency , which named WhatsApp and Google Play as the first two applications to be unblocked . <p> Since the 2009 protests against the reelection of hardliner Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , social media networks including Facebook , X and YouTube have been banned or restricted by authorities who 've blamed them for facilitating protests and fomenting opposition to the state . <p> Iran 's government has faced criticism for years from ordinary Iranians , Western governments , the United Nations and political activists for its draconian attitude toward the internet . Officials -- most of whom use banned social media sites to run their own public-facing accounts -- often fail to deliver on promises to reduce censorship . Instead , it 's increased significantly over the past 10 years . <p> It 's not clear when Tuesday 's decision will come into effect . IRNA said it was reached by a unanimous vote at a council meeting attended by the head of the judiciary and reformist President Masoud Pezeshkian who 'd pledged to relax internet freedoms for Iranians when he was elected in July . <p> The move comes as the Islamic Republic , already widely unpopular at home following a nationwide 2022 uprising that was brutally suppressed , is locked in a standoff with Israel for supporting Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon . <p> Both groups -- designated as terrorist organizations by the U.S. and its allies -- have been crippled by Israel 's military response to the October 2023 attacks by Hamas . The ouster of Bashar al-Assad in Syria has also upended Iran 's foreign policy at a time when it 's struggling to keep the lights on for industry and households amid a major fuel and natural-gas crisis . <p> " The process of lifting cyberspace restrictions will be multistaged and ongoing , and it wo n't be limited to the removal of restrictions on one or a few platforms , " IRNA said . <p> Complete internet blackouts have often been imposed on Iranians , including during protests in November 2019 and the 2022 nationwide uprising , which prompted the U.S. government at the time to ease restrictions on internet services to Iran , such as Elon Musk 's Starlink . <p> The Washington-based Freedom House said Iran was among the three least free countries in the world in terms of internet access -- after China and Myanmar -- in its annual " Internet Freedom Scores " ranking . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds .
