<p> As President-elect Donald Trump prepares to start his new term in January , ceasefire talks between Israel and Hamas have reportedly gained momentum . And in another notable move , the incoming president appears to be determined to reach such a deal as his aides have told Qatar to recall Hamas leaders to Doha in order to have negotiations . Even as the Middle East faces upheavals , Trump will have an opportunity to facilitate diplomacy in the region . <p> Trump has made it clear that he wishes to expand the Abraham Accords during his second term . The continued normalization of relations between Arab countries and the state of Israel has the potential to create goodwill and stability within the region . Most importantly , an extension of the accords could help the United States decrease its military footprint by allowing Middle Eastern regimes to cooperate and create stability . This may empower the U.S. to retrench and focus its resources on East Asia or the homefront , a priority for many America-first conservatives who support Trump . <p> Undeniably , the crown jewel for an Abraham Accords 2.0 would be an Israeli-Saudi normalization . But unlike the first round of the Abraham Accords in which the Trump administration largely sidestepped the issue of Palestine , America can not afford to ignore the Palestinian question if it wants Jerusalem and Riyadh to normalize relations . <p> If Trump decides to back Israel unconditionally during his second term , he could risk jeopardizing his plan for substantive peace in the Middle East , not to mention the continued viability of the Abraham Accords he brokered during his first term . Although Israel may be an ally , the interests of the United States , which include off-shoring from the region , should take precedence . Vice President-elect J.D. Vance himself has acknowledged that Americans and Israelis would sometimes have " distinct interests . " The question of Palestinian statehood and an end to the war in Gaza should fit in this bucket . <p> Although Netanyahu may agree to a ceasefire without a total eradication of Hamas from the Gaza Strip , the U.S. should be prepared to apply pressure to end the war if needed . On the issue of statehood for the Palestinians , it is certain Netanyahu and his cabinet will likely block any attempt for a Palestinian peace and a path to statehood . In both these scenarios it would be warranted for Trump to consider withholding offensive weapons on American interests alone . <p> An analogous argument was made by Senator Jon Ossoff in his support of a measure to block certain offensive weapons to Israel last month due to humanitarian concerns in Gaza . The Democrat from Georgia asserted that foreign governments were not " entitled as a matter of right to American weapons with no strings attached " and that the U.S. could insist that foreign countries use weaponry in a manner " consistent with our interests , values , and our laws . " <p> In pursuance of an Abraham Accords 2.0 , Trump should similarly contend that America 's provisioning of its own offensive weapons ought to only be made if the country 's legitimate interests are taken into account . This conditioning of aid would likely prove successful as Israel would not have been able to fight in Gaza " beyond a few months " without support from the United States . These controls would n't necessitate a complete stop in aid for Israel , as support for Israel 's defensive military capabilities in the case of an attack and the sharing of intelligence could still be maintained . <p> Considering the pro-Israel cabinet and administration that he has appointed thus far , it is conceivable that Trump may choose not to apply heightened pressure on Israel to end the war in Gaza and to allow for a path to statehood for Palestinians . However , if Trump wants to expand the landmark Abraham Accords that he brokered to Saudi Arabia and Oman , he will have to be willing to play hardball with the Israelis . <p> Kevin Joseph is a recent graduate from the University of Illinois who majored in Political Science and History . He has worked as a Summer Fellow in the U.S. Senate .
