<p> " Silent Night " is one of the most popular Christmas hymns , often sung in churches lit only by candles . The song describes a " tender and mild " infant Christ slumbering undisturbed in " heavenly peace . " Another beloved hymn , " Away in a Manger , " also focuses on the theme of divine serenity : It speaks of animals making noises but the child Christ being different . " The cattle are lowing , " goes one verse . " The baby awakes / But little Lord Jesus , no crying he makes . " Countless paintings hang in museums showing the manger scene as peaceful , with Mary gazing beatifically at her calm , still baby . <p> I bear no particular grudge against seekers of peace , nor do I desire to play the Scrooge around visions of Jesus that bring people joy . Nonetheless , I ca n't help but notice that these depictions of Jesus 's first nights with his parents stand in stark contrast to most children 's early days . <p> " Silent Night " depictions of Christ 's birth are unrealistic , as plastic as decorations that appear on lawns every December , as staged as the declarations of love at the end of a Hallmark Christmas movie . And these versions of the Nativity miss something essential : the humanity of Jesus . <p> Though neither of the Gospel accounts of Christ 's birth describes him crying , the Gospel of Luke says that Jesus " grew up , " which implies that he went through the typical stages of development . As an adult , he experienced a normal range of emotions : He wept at the death of a friend ( John 11:35 ) , experienced fatigue after a long day of travel ( John 4:6 ) , and was anguished at the thought of his impending crucifixion ( Luke 22:44 ) . The writer of the Letter to the Hebrews , looking back over the life of Jesus , says that he was " tempted in every way , just as we are -- yet he did not sin " ( Hebrews 4:15 ) . Based on all this , as a scholar of the New Testament I feel confident that Jesus must have behaved like an ordinary baby . <p> And as a father , I know how babies behave . My wife and I have four children , and at some point during each birth , I feared for the safety of my wife , the child , or both . These infants ' first moments in the world were anything but serene . They cried and wailed ; they peed and pooped . What brought on those tears ? Were they cold ? Hungry ? In need of a new diaper or simply physical touch , to be held and comforted ? We did n't know . I imagine that Mary and Joseph felt a similar disorientation . <p> The Christmas story is about God becoming a child , but not in the sense that an infant had all the knowledge and power of God squeezed into a baby form . It 's not about divine shape-shifting . It 's about divine limitation , humility , and weakness . A crying , unsettled Jesus who soiled himself like any other baby captures the central miracle that Christmas proposes . For the Christian , God became one of the hungry , cold , dirty , and often-lonely people of the world . He is not detached from us ; he is one of us . Once God joined our number , he infused us with fresh dignity . The Church can never rightly turn its attention away from the needy , be they infants or adults , because it worships a God who made himself needy . <p> Silence might not be the best way to describe that first Christmas , but there is something these hymns get correct . Jesus does not utter actual words . In a world weary of religious speech , Christmas is the celebration of an act . That act is the display of divine vulnerability taking on the complete helplessness of a child . God wraps himself not in strength and power , but in weakness . That idea that true power comes not through the exercise of it , but in setting it aside , seems as unbelievable in the 21st century as it did in the first . Stated differently , most Christians are not ready to take on the full implications of the Christmas story . <p> Today , many Americans -- Christians very much included -- believe that strength and power come from money or political influence or military might . That is why , the thinking goes , Christians must cozy up to the presidency and keep some fleeting favored status : to gain protection from the gathering dark . What good can a baby do against enemies foreign and domestic ? Of what use is a manger to a Christian nationalist ? <p> The Church has lost its connection to the tears of infants and the moans of adults . Christians are too often little more than another voting bloc caught up in the same struggle for national power as everyone else . Christmas reminds Christians like me that we should set aside our quest for earthly power and instead entrust our future to a God who joined his tears to ours , both in his nativity and later upon the cross . <p> Our lives and our world are not oceans of calm . There is weeping in Ukraine , Gaza , Sudan ; at the border ; in the city and the countryside . Maybe pondering a frightened Mary , a distressed Joseph , and a crying Jesus will allow us to set aside our own facades . If God was willing to put on weakness , that might free us to recognize our own .
