<p> The courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital following an Israeli attack on it and its surrounding buildings in Beit Lahia , Gaza on December 25 , 2024 . <p> Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu/Getty Images <p> CNN -- <p> The Israeli military surrounded one of the last functioning hospitals in northern Gaza , ordering patients and staff to evacuate and remove their clothing , say eyewitnesses , as concern grows for those who remain in the facility . <p> Israeli forces " are besieging Kamal Adwan Hospital and issuing orders for its evacuation , " hospital director Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya said in a post on social media early Friday . <p> A nurse and a journalist inside the hospital , which is in the enclave 's Beit Lahiya district , said the same . In audio messages CNN has listened to , they said people there had been ordered to leave the hospital and go to the yard of the compound . <p> The World Health Organization ( WHO ) raised concern about the hospital on Friday , saying the raid has put the " last major health facility in north Gaza out of service . " It also warned that at least " 60 health workers and 25 patients in critical condition , including those on ventilators , remain in the hospital . " <p> Some staff members accused the Israeli military of starting a fire . The Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) has denied any connection to the blaze . " After preliminary examination , no connection was found between IDF activity to the fire , " an IDF spokesperson said on X. <p> A video shared by nurse Walid Al Budi , who was also inside the hospital , showed a fire burning in its archive department . Heavy gunfire can be heard in the background . <p> The Israeli military had been " burning all the operating departments in the hospital , " Abu Safiya said in an Instagram post . Abu Safiya said that some staff had been detained and that a large number had been injured . <p> An audio message from staff at Kamal Adwan said that " surgical departments , laboratory , maintenance , and emergency units have been completely burned , and the fire is now spreading to the buildings . " Ambulances were sent to transport survivors to the Indonesian Hospital , the message added . <p> In a separate statement , the IDF told CNN that " there was a small fire in an empty building inside the hospital that is under control , " adding that it is " unaware " of allegations that the fire was caused by IDF gunfire . It added that its troops " are operating in the area of the hospital and not inside of it . " <p> The IDF said earlier that it had begun operations around the hospital based on intelligence " regarding the presence of terrorist infrastructure and operatives " there . " The Kamal Adwan Hospital serves as a Hamas terrorist stronghold in northern Gaza , " the IDF claimed , adding that its troops are conducting " targeted operations in the area . " <p> " IDF troops facilitated the secure evacuation of civilians , patients , and medical personnel prior to the operation , " it said , " with ambulances for transportation to additional hospitals in the Gaza Strip to ensure continued medical treatment . " <p> Israeli forces launched a renewed aerial and ground incursion in several parts of northern Gaza in early October this year , saying they were targeting a resurgent Hamas presence there . The two-month onslaught has razed streets to carpets of debris , killed entire families , and severely depleted food , water and medical stocks . <h> ' Death surrounds us ' <p> Two nurses told CNN that after the IDF told patients and staff to leave the building , Israeli troops rounded them up and separated them by gender -- a process that took over two hours . <p> The IDF told men and women to remove their clothes and headscarves , Shorouq Saleh Al-Rantisi , a nurse working in the laboratory at Kamal Adwan Hospital , said on Friday . " Those who refused to remove their clothing were beaten , " she said . " I did n't have a phone but those who were refusing to hand over their phones were beaten . " <p> Concrete slabs and barbed wire spill out of the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital , following an Israeli attack , in Beit Lahiya , in Gaza , on December 25 . <p> Khalil Ramzi/Anadolu/Getty Images/File <p> Al-Rantisi said the IDF returned their belongings , before positioning a military vehicle at either end of the group of Palestinians and forced them to walk towards Shadi Abu Ghazala street in the Beit Lahiya neighborhood . <p> " ( They ) ordered us to take off our hijabs and clothes like the men , but we refused , " she told CNN . " The hardest part was the long distance we walked , and their demand that we remove our clothes was the most difficult . They did not respect that we are women ; they looked at us and mocked us . " <p> " All the young men who were at the hospital have been arrested , including my husband , " she told CNN . " They have assaulted the women , ordering them to remove their clothing as well , which we refused to do ... Death surrounds us from all sides . " <h> ' Bodies remain in the street ' <p> The hospital and its surroundings have come under an onslaught of Israeli attacks in recent months , Abu Safiya has said . Late on Thursday , about 50 people , including five medical workers , were killed after Israeli strikes nearby , according to the Ministry of Health in Gaza and Abu Safiya . <p> Among the three hospital workers killed was a paediatrician Dr. Ahmed Samour , who was on duty on Thursday but went to the building opposite the hospital -- where he and his family live -- when the strike hit , said Abu Safiya . <p> Two paramedics were killed in a strike near the hospital while on their way there , the director said . <p> " The number of casualties reported in the media does not align with the information held " by the Israeli military , it said . <p> Israel says that Hamas operates inside and underneath hospitals , and is using them for military operations , including as command centers , weapons stores and to hide hostages . The Israelis have released footage they say is evidence of those Hamas operations . The videos do not offer definitive proof , and Hamas has denied the claims . <p> The WHO has previously said that Israeli authorities have repeatedly denied humanitarian access to Kamal Adwan Hospital and just this week said that a request to deploy international emergency medical teams was denied by Israeli authorities , " despite the need for immediate surgical interventions for injured patients . " <p> Israeli organization Physicians for Human Rights has filed an urgent petition with Israel 's High Court " demanding an immediate cessation of ongoing attacks on Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza , " a statement from the organization said on Wednesday . <p> The " petition presents grave evidence of the catastrophic impact on the hospital and its staff over the past year , " the statement says . <p> " Evacuating Kamal Adwan Hospital would abandon thousands of residents in northern Gaza without access to medical treatment for the sick and injured . Many of the patients currently receiving care can not be safely evacuated due to constant gunfire in the vicinity and the military 's restrictions on ambulance operations , " the Israeli human rights organization added .
