<p> Smoke rises from the area around the International Airport following an airstrike , as seen from Sanaa , Yemen , Thursday , Dec. 26 , 2024 . The Israeli military reported targeting infrastructure used by the Houthis at the Sanaa International Airport , as well as ports in Hodeida , Al-Salif , and Ras Qantib , along with power stations . ( AP Photo/Osamah Abdulrahman ) <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) -- A new round of Israeli airstrikes in Yemen on Thursday targeted the Houthi rebel-held capital and multiple ports , while the World Health Organization 's director-general said the bombardment occurred nearby as he prepared to board a flight in Sanaa , with a crew member injured . <p> " The air traffic control tower , the departure lounge -- just a few meters from where we were -- and the runway were damaged , " Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on the social media platform X. <p> He added that he and U.N . colleagues were safe . " We will need to wait for the damage to the airport to be repaired before we can leave , " he said , without mentioning the source of the bombardment . U.N . spokesperson Stephanie Tremblay later said the injured person was with the U.N . Humanitarian Air Service . <p> At least three people were later reported killed and dozens injured in the airport strike . The U.N . team members left the airport and were " safe and sound " in Sanaa while the injured crew member was being treated at a hospital , she said . <p> Tremblay said the damage assessment would be made on Friday morning to see whether WHO chief and the U.N . team can leave Yemen . <p> Locals stand next to a damaged building after the latest Israeli military operation , in the West Bank city of Tulkarem , Thursday , Dec. 26 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Matias Delacroix ) <p> U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the escalation in attacks between Yemen and Israel and described Thursday 's attacks as " especially alarming , " Tremblay said . <p> Israel 's army later told The Associated Press it was n't aware that the WHO chief or delegation was at the location in Yemen . <p> The Israeli strikes followed several days of Houthi launches setting off sirens in Israel . The Israeli military in a statement said it attacked infrastructure used by the Iran-backed Houthis at the international airport in Sanaa and ports in Hodeida , Al-Salif and Ras Qantib , along with power stations , asserting they were used to smuggle in Iranian weapons and for the entry of senior Iranian officials . <p> Israel 's military added it had " capabilities to strike very far from Israel 's territory -- precisely , powerfully , and repetitively . " <p> The strikes , carried out over 1,000 miles from Jerusalem , came a day after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said " the Houthis , too , will learn what Hamas and Hezbollah and Assad 's regime and others learned " as his military has battled those more powerful proxies of Iran . Hamas has been designated as a terrorist organization by the United States , Canada and the European Union . <p> The Houthi-controlled satellite channel al-Masirah reported multiple deaths and showed broken windows , collapsed ceilings and a bloodstained floor and vehicle . Iran 's foreign ministry condemned the strikes . The U.S. military also has targeted the Houthis in recent days . <p> The U.N . Security Council has an emergency meeting Monday in response to an Israeli request that it condemn the Houthi attacks and Iran for supplying them weapons . <h> 5 journalists killed in Gaza <p> Meanwhile , an Israeli strike killed five Palestinian journalists outside a hospital in Gaza overnight , the territory 's Health Ministry said . The Israeli military said all were militants posing as reporters . <p> The strike hit a car outside Al-Awda Hospital in the built-up Nuseirat refugee camp in central Gaza . The journalists were working for local news outlet Al-Quds Today , a television channel affiliated with the Islamic Jihad militant group . <p> A woman reacts during the funeral of five Palestinian journalists who were killed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City at the Al-Aqsa Hospital in Deir al-Balah , Thursday , Dec. 26 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Abdel Kareem Hana ) <p> Islamic Jihad is a smaller and more extreme ally of Hamas and took part in the Oct. 7 , 2023 attack in southern Israel that ignited the war . Israel 's military identified four of the men as combat propagandists and said that intelligence , including a list of Islamic Jihad operatives found by soldiers in Gaza , had confirmed that all five were affiliated with the group . <p> Hamas , Islamic Jihad and other Palestinian militant groups operate political , media and charitable operations in addition to their armed wings . <p> Associated Press footage showed the incinerated shell of a van , with press markings visible on the back doors . Sobbing young men attended the funeral . The bodies were wrapped in shrouds , with blue press vests draped over them . <p> The Committee to Protect Journalists says more than 130 Palestinian reporters have been killed since the start of the war . Israel has n't allowed foreign reporters to enter Gaza except on military embeds . <p> Israel has banned the pan-Arab Al Jazeera network and accused six of its Gaza reporters of being militants . The Qatar-based broadcaster denies the allegations and accuses Israel of trying to silence its war coverage , which has focused heavily on civilian casualties from Israeli military operations . <h> Another Israeli soldier killed <p> Separately , Israel 's military said a 35-year-old reserve soldier was killed during fighting in central Gaza . A total of 389 soldiers have been killed in Gaza since the start of the ground operation . <p> The war began when Hamas-led terrorists stormed across the border , killing around 1,200 people , mostly civilians , and abducting around 250 . About 100 hostages are still inside Gaza , at least a third believed to be dead . <p> Israel 's air and ground offensive has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to the Health Ministry . It says more than half the fatalities have been women and children , but does n't say how many of the dead were fighters . Israel says it has killed more than 17,000 combatants , without providing evidence . <p> The offensive has caused widespread destruction and hunger and driven around 90% of the population of 2.3 million from their homes . Hundreds of thousands are packed into squalid camps along the coast , with little protection from the cold , wet winter . <p> Also Thursday , people mourned eight Palestinians killed by Israeli military operations in and around Tulkarem in the occupied West Bank on Tuesday , according to the Palestinian Health Ministry . The Israeli military said it opened fire after militants attacked soldiers , and it was aware of uninvolved civilians who were harmed in the raid . <p> Shurafa reported from Deir al-Balah , Gaza Strip . Associated Press writers Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations and Nasser Karimi in Tehran , Iran , contributed to this report . A previous version of this story was corrected to show that the name of the local news outlet is Al-Quds Today , not the Quds News Network .
