<h> What will a second Trump presidency bring ? : Explained <h> How will the world , and India , negotiate Trump 2.0 ? Why is Trump threatening punitive tariffs on some countries ? Will he usher in changes in immigration policies ? Will his second term also likely witness America 's continuing withdrawal from global , multilateral and regional engagement ? <p> New dawn : A demonstrator protests at the San Ysidro crossing port on the U.S.-Mexico border , during International Migrants Day on December 18 . Photo Credit : AFP <p> The story so far : <p> When U.S. President-elect Donald Trump is administered the oath of office on January 20 , 2025 , and officially kicks off his second term at the White House , it will be the onset of four years that herald the deepening of domestic and foreign policy priorities enacted in his first term as President . On the cards are a reimposition of punitive tariffs against nations exporting to the U.S. , and India is likely to feature on that list ; a tough stance on immigration ; and changes in foreign policy , with America likely to see the continuing withdrawal from global , multilateral and regional engagement like in his first term . <h> What tariffs policies and tax cuts are likely to be tabled by the Trump administration ? <p> The first Trump administration started a trade war with China when it hit Beijing in 2018 with a punitive net tariff coverage of nearly 15% of all U.S. imports . In that case , his administration had already imposed several tariffs prior to 2018 as well , with the result that there were overlapping tariffs on a number of products ; for example , the 25% tariff that was imposed that year was over and above an antidumping tariff of approximately 66% that was already in place . Despite this somewhat chaotic approach to tariff imposition , one fact was clear -- China was the main target on the global stage : at 11.1% import coverage by U.S. special tariffs in 2018 , the rate slapped on Beijing dwarfed the rate for other exporters to the U.S. , including India , at 0.2% . In terms of products , the U.S. special tariffs preponderantly targeted imports of intermediate goods , and to a much lesser extent capital goods and final products . This is likely to have impacted the final price of finished goods based on intermediate goods sourced within the U.S. <p> During his 2024 campaign , Mr. Trump had affirmed that he would impose an across-the-board tariff of somewhere between 10%-20% on the entire $3 trillion worth of U.S. goods imports and a China-specific additional tariff of 60% . Assuming that the focus on intermediate goods continues in this context , this would imply a significant jump from his first term in terms of the value of goods impacted , most likely additional tens of billions of dollars ' worth on commodities such as steel and aluminium and at least $300 billion worth of Chinese goods . Retaliation from China , the E.U. , India , and other trading partners of the U.S. is sure to follow swiftly . <p> Regarding the high likelihood of a corporate tax cut , it could come in the form of renewing the lapsing cuts that Mr. Trump had introduced in 2017 , through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act . This despite -- or perhaps precisely because of -- the fact that the policy did reduce taxes for most people , though it disproportionately benefitted the wealthy , according to the non-partisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . Their analysis at the time noted this policy resulted in households with incomes in the top 1% receiving an average tax cut of more than $60,000 if the cuts were maintained , compared to an average tax cut of less than $500 for households in the bottom 60% . Additionally , the Trump tax cut " was expensive and eroded the U.S. revenue base ... and failed to deliver promised economic benefits , " the CBPP noted . <p> Other economic policy actions that the Trump White House might advocate for include a carbon-border adjustment tax and quantitative restrictions on investments into U.S. assets such as infrastructure and essential medicine production capabilities , by China . <p> His administration would also likely seek the inputs of the Department of Government Efficiency -- led by the " tech bros " Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy -- to reduce wastage and inefficiencies within the purview of the federal government , including by rationalising the actions of bureaucrats and cutting down on regulations across sectors . While the duo have hinted at potentially finding $2 trillion in savings through this initiative , including via mass layoffs and the shutting down of some agencies entirely , critics have challenged the size of the potential gains that could be made here . <h> What action is expected on immigration ? <p> Going by the Trump campaign 's policy promises in the lead-up to the 2024 election , there is a distinct possibility of a large-scale deportation of undocumented workers . However , there may be several obstacles that the White House might encounter as it carries out this possibly unprecedented action . Firstly , across several states , key urban hubs have vowed to be " sanctuary cities " and pass laws to limit local law enforcement cooperation with the federal government 's Immigration and Customs Enforcement . This is likely to make it politically complicated to carry out detention and deportation actions on a sizeable scale and in a short time frame . Secondly , the Trump campaign is yet to share details on the cost of such operations to the exchequer , but non-partisan analysts such as the American Immigration Council estimate that such an immigration proposal could potentially cost taxpayers considerably more than $300 billion . These estimates notwithstanding , there is little doubt that Mr. Trump will attempt to accelerate deportations to fulfil his campaign promises , especially as the first Trump administration deported close to 1.5 million people -- almost the same number as outgoing President Joe Biden and far less than former President Barack Obama , who turned away nearly 3 million people over eight years in office . <h> What impact could be expected regarding U.S. foreign policy ? <p> Mr. Trump has proclaimed publicly without explanation or details that he can and will end the Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Hamas conflict . On the former , he has said he would end the war even prior to Inauguration Day , even if he views the conflict through the lens of halting the " endless flow of American treasure to Ukraine " and demanding that NATO allies in Europe reimburse Washington for its war-related expenses if they expect military support from the U.S. against future Russian aggression . <p> Regarding Israel , the incoming President has followed in Mr. Biden 's footsteps and criticised the Israeli government 's aggression in Gaza , although Mr. Trump had tacitly expressed support for Israel by moving the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem in his first term . <h> What bolsters Mr. Trump 's intentions ? <p> While the Trump 2.0 administration is yet to spell out critical details regarding its policy plans on the domestic and international fronts , one thing is certain : Mr. Trump enjoys an overwhelming mandate expressed through the result of the 2024 election . Further , he will be fundamentally operating from a position of institutional strength given the federal government trifecta , which implies that the White House will enjoy the luxury of greater cooperation in getting policies sanctioned by Congress , and possibly important cases ruled in his administration 's favour by a sympathetic U.S. Supreme Court . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
