<p> Church of the Nativity.jpeg - Bethlehem 's Church of the Nativity was almost empty on Christmas Eve , Dec. 24 , 2024. ( photo credit : Giorgia Valente/The Media Line ) <p> Bethlehem , the traditional birthplace of Jesus Christ , marked a subdued Christmas , overshadowed by the ongoing conflict in Gaza and the devastating local economy . For the second consecutive year , the city 's Christian community faced a bleak holiday season , with rising fears about the survival of one of the world 's oldest Christian populations . <p> Friar Ibrahim Faltas , Vicar of the Custody of the Holy Land , told The Media Line , " This has become an open-air prison . On top of the conflict in Gaza , people here have been struggling for 15 months without income , with restricted mobility , and no change in sight . " <p> The streets of Bethlehem reflected this despair . Many shops were closed , no festive decorations were present , and a few young children persistently distributed candies and small souvenirs to passersby with the goal of earning some money . <p> Groups of locals walked slowly toward Manger Square in front of the Church of the Nativity . Despite the lack of tourism , the square looked packed , given the huge number of foreign press and security forces on every corner . <p> Palestinian scouts marched silently through the streets at noon , departing from the usual raucous brass band procession . At the end of the march , Latin Patriarch Pierbattista Pizzaballa addressed the crowd beside a picture of two Gazan children . Palestinian scouts march silently through the streets of Bethlehem , carrying flags , Dec. 24 , 2024. ( credit : Giorgia Valente/The Media Line ) <p> " Despite the current suffering you are facing on every front , we stand with you . Do not surrender ; do not be afraid because you are the light in this darkness . This has to be the last Christmas like this , " he declared . <p> Munther Isaac , senior pastor of the Evangelical Lutheran Christian Church in Bethlehem , spoke of the importance of resilience . " One year ago , I had the idea to represent the ' Christ in the rubble ' to show the suffering Palestinians in Gaza have been enduring . This sent a message to the world that Christmas is much more than a recurrence ; it is a way to remember who still lives here under oppression and their fight for survival , " he said to The Media Line . <h> Growing economic concerns <p> The economic blow to Bethlehem has been severe . Tourism accounts for 70% of the city 's income , mostly generated during the Christmas season . Visitor numbers have plunged from a pre-COVID high of 2 million in 2019 to fewer than 100,000 in 2024 . <p> Anna , an Aramean Christian tour operator , told The Media Line , " I have been jobless since October 7 . I am currently economically relying on my husband , who sells electronic devices in his shop here , but we have been struggling since neither the PA Palestinian Authority nor Israel has been able to help us financially . I used to take tourists on tours in Jerusalem and Bethlehem , but everything changed . " <p> Anna criticized polarized narratives about the conflict , saying , " I am against any form of violence , and what both sides did to one another is unacceptable . For this reason , I am against the choice of each side to portray itself as the ' only victims ' because , in this way , they are just polarizing , even more , the perception of this conflict abroad . " <p> " The beauty of our Holy Land , which I gladly define as a whole , despite walls dividing one side from the other , is that there is no black and white , but different shades , that people from the outside often do not see , " she added . <p> Her husband , a Palestinian ID holder , can not travel freely as Anna and their children can . She emphasized teaching her children tolerance : " My goal was to teach my kids no resentment toward anyone . The problem of many living here is that they pass their trauma to younger generations and teach hate instead of forgiveness . If we keep doing like this , we will be stuck in this loop of violence forever -- Jews , Christians , and Muslims alike , " she noted . <p> Abood Sobha , a Muslim tour guide and souvenir shop owner , echoed Anna 's struggles . " I am a Muslim Palestinian who benefited from tourism and loved engaging with people from all over the world . I was comfortable economically before the war , and I loved to move from my city to other places like Haifa and Tel Aviv , but since I own a Palestinian ID , I have been stuck here for more than a year , and I am mentally exhausted , " he told The Media Line . <p> " We need and want peace , and we can not keep going like this . Unfortunately , it seems that here in the West Bank , it may even get worse . Look at Jenin and Tulkarem these days , " he added . <p> His shop , filled with artisanal goods such as glass pieces , leather bags , foulards , handmade carpets , and traditional clothes from Hebron , Nablus , and other areas , has seen almost no sales . <p> " Most of the things you see here are made by 27 tiny family businesses mainly located in Hebron , here , and Nablus . We value Palestinian artisans , but unfortunately , we have n't been able to sell anything the past year . We are thinking to start shipping abroad , because we can not rely on locals and tourists at the moment , " he said . <p> The church has become a vital lifeline for struggling families . Father Rami Askarieh , parish priest of the Latin Church of St. Catherine , told The Media Line , " The church has been doing more for the people here than our current government . We offer food coupons , pay electricity bills for those who struggle , and provide medicine and educational fees . Here , the PA covers 90% of health expenses , but the remaining 10% -- which is a lot of money -- has to be covered by our donations . We ca n't manage all the time with the increasing numbers of requests . " <h> Declining Christian population <p> Askarieh lamented the decline in Bethlehem 's Christian population . " In 1947 , Christians comprised 85% of the city 's population . By 2016 , this had decreased to 12% . Today , we are more or less 10% . As other Christians in the region , we may face extinction despite being one of the most ancient communities , " he said . Friar Ibrahim Faltas , vicar of the Custody of the Holy Land , in Bethlehem , West Bank , Dec. 24 , 2024. ( credit : Giorgia Valente/The Media Line ) <p> Faltas expressed similar fears . " The paradox is that Christians all over the world pray for Bethlehem and its people here , but our people are leaving . Since the breakout of the war , 147 Christian families left the city for better opportunities abroad . This is scary . What does the future hold for this community ? There are barely 9,000 Christians here . " <p> Askarieh also raised concerns about rising extremism in the region . For example , in Syria , the small Christian community may be targeted for attacks even more than in the past . He mentioned that Christian tombs were recently vandalized in Hama , and the Christmas tree was set on fire . <p> " Part of my family is Syrian , and just a few days ago , my cousin 's entire family moved to Holland . I am listening carefully to what is unfolding in the country . Extremist political Islam can pose a threat both in Europe and in the region , and religious minorities could pay the price for this . Since it is Christmas , I try to pray that this wo n't occur and remain hopeful , " he concluded . <h> Glimmer of hope <p> The First Baptist Church of Bethlehem , part of a small but resilient evangelical Christian community , also provided a glimmer of hope . Its leader , Rev. Dr. Naim Khoury , described efforts to ease suffering through Christmas activities , food donations , and spiritual gatherings . " We distributed over 250 food shares to needy families . Spiritually , we thank God that people found some relief and hope through our celebrations , " he told The Media Line . <p> David Parsons , vice president of the International Christian Embassy in Jerusalem , highlighted a broader trend . " In Bethlehem , the breadwinners , who normally work in Christian tourism or are employed in Israel , are out of work due to the war . So Christmas is n't so good there this year . Meanwhile , Arab Christians in cities like Nazareth , Haifa , and Old Jaffa have found more opportunities to celebrate alongside Jewish neighbors , fostering social cohesion , " he noted . <p> He described " a lot of interaction over Christmas and Hanukkah this year " and added , " It 's good to see the communities coming together . " <p> Despite the challenges , Bethlehem 's religious leaders continue to advocate for peace and hope . Khoury summed up the prevailing sentiment : " We try to plant hope , peace , and love in people 's hearts to help them accept what is happening now in a biblical way . "
