<h> Larry Wilson : The lost art of college students talking to each other <h> Share this : <p> Bridges Auditorium , on the campus Claremont 's Pomona College , will be the venue for " A Candlelight Christmas , " to be presented Dec. 13 and 14 , 2024 , by Inland Pacific Ballet and Candlelight Pavilion . ( File Photo by David Allen , Inland Valley Daily Bulletin/SCNG ) <p> After 125 years or so of being the most collectively Joe College nation on Earth , many Americans have turned sour on the idea that a higher education -- or at least the four years we have traditionally set aside for young adults to get a bachelor 's degree -- is key to an informed , successful life . <p> Not me . <p> But the varsity blues are otherwise rampant . <p> Perhaps our culture had gone a little bit too all-in on the tradition , and this is just a course correction . I have noted before in this space that in my observations of car rear windshields in dozens of countries around the world , we are the only one that is positively bonkers in identifying the schools in which we , or our children , have matriculated , through decals and bumper stickers . <p> The Citroens of Paris and the Jaguars of London are not adorned with signifiers bragging " Sorbonne " or " Oxford . " I do n't quite know if it 's simple humility or a lack of school spirit , but the fact is their license-plate holders do not announce , as does mine , " Go Bears ! , " or the equivalent , to the driver behind them at the stop light . <p> I do realize I was lucky in having been accepted into the University of California system during its golden age of taxpayer support . I got to study at the greatest public university in the world for a tuition that never varied from its annual $637.50 price tag from September 1973 through June 1977 . That , the $200 monthly check my ( sainted ) mother sent me and the $15 a week I made for writing for the student newspaper covered everything : rent , books , meals , beer , whatnot . <p> Undergraduate bliss . Or , if not always entirely that -- there were inevitable heartbreaks , and the vague existential dread of adult life around the corner , in which you 'd somehow have to make ends meet -- four formative transitional years in between living under your parents ' roof and having to fend entirely on your own . If I was lucky , at least I knew that I was , and never took it for granted . I was n't smart enough to be a slacker . I never missed a single class , freshman through senior years . <p> Of course , the information imparted was n't always at the hands of the professors . On a university campus , you have your beliefs challenged , or at least you ought to . For instance , as a perhaps naive believer in the essentially correct nature of American foreign policy , the Vietnam debacle aside , I had never for a minute as a high school student been exposed to any notion that Israel was anything but entirely righteous and correct in its dealings with its Arab neighbors . But walking through Sproul Plaza one day , with its ubiquitous " tablers " espousing various political causes , from Young Communists through Young Republicans , I stopped to read some pamphleteering giving the Palestinian side . You mean land was taken from families with an ancient claim to it without proper compensation ? The world was more complicated than one had been led to believe . <p> And now , as is only fitting , it 's time to play the role of old grouch . Students arrive on campus these days more set in their views , less open to conversion . You hang with the like-minded and issue trigger warnings to those who would challenge you . The Palestine-Israel situation is a sadly perfect example of that . And so , as someone who still spends a lot of time on college campuses , I was glad to read recently of efforts by college administrators to get young people to open up . In a story headlined " To Dial Down Campus Tensions , Colleges Teach the Art of Conversation , " New York Times reporter Anemona Hartocollis writes : " On a warm November day , a group of Columbia University professors set up ' listening tables ' near the center of campus and hailed students rushing to class , inviting them to stop and talk . " <p> They smartly bring pizza as an enticement , so some things never change . But it 's often the dire wolf of Gaza that still howls loudest at the tables . A woman in a kaffiyeh in one conversation talked about " this genocide . " <p> " I would n't call it a genocide , " said Scott Barry Kaufman , a psych prof moderating the group . <p> " Do you hate me because I disagree with you ? " <p> " No , she did not hate him -- ' for that reason , ' she said , " Hartocollis reports .
