<h> AP News Summary at 12:12 a.m . EST <p> Trump asks Supreme Court to delay TikTok ban so he can weigh in after he takes office <p> President-elect Donald Trump has asked the Supreme Court to pause the potential TikTok ban from going into effect until his administration can pursue a " political resolution " to the issue . Trump 's request Friday came as TikTok and the Biden administration filed opposing briefs to the court . Oral arguments are scheduled for Jan. 10 on whether the law , which requires TikTok to divest from its China-based parent company or face a ban , unlawfully restricts speech in violation of the First Amendment . The brief said Trump opposes banning TikTok at this junction and " seeks the ability to resolve the issues at hand through political means once he takes office . " <p> US to send $1.25 billion in weapons to Ukraine , pushing to get aid out before Biden leaves office <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- U.S. officials say the United States is expected to announce it will send another $1.25 billion in military assistance to Ukraine . It 's part of a push by the Biden administration to get as much aid to Kyiv as possible before leaving office on Jan. 20 . Officials say the large package of aid includes a significant amount of munitions , including for the National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile Systems and the HAWK air defense system . It also will provide Stinger missiles and 155 mm- and 105 mm artillery rounds . The officials say they expect the announcement will be made on Monday . They spoke on condition of anonymity to provide details not yet made public . <p> Bloodied Ukrainian troops risk losing more hard-won land in Kursk to Russia <p> KYIV , Ukraine ( AP ) -- Five months after their shock offensive into Russia , Ukrainian troops are bloodied by daily combat losses and demoralized by the rising risk of defeat in Kursk . Some want to stay in the region at all costs . Others question question the value of having gone in at all . Battles are so intense that commanders are unable to evacuate their dead . Lags in communication and poorly timed operations have cost lives and commanders say they have little way to counterattack . The overstretched Ukrainians have lost more then 40% of the territory they won in the lightning incursion that seized much of Kursk in August . <p> Canadian Cabinet ministers meet with Trump 's nominee for commerce secretary in bid to avoid tariffs <p> TORONTO ( AP ) -- Two top Canadian Cabinet ministers have met with President-elect Donald Trump 's nominee for commerce secretary at Mar-a-Lago as Canada tries to avoid sweeping tariffs when Trump takes office . New Finance Minister Dominic LeBlanc and Foreign Minister M ? lanie Joly met with Howard Lutnick , Trump 's nominee for commerce secretary , as well as North Dakota Gov . Doug Burgum , Trump 's pick to lead the Interior Department . The meeting was a follow up to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau 's meeting with Trump at Mar-a-Lago last month . Trump has threatened to impose sweeping tariffs if Canada does not stem what he calls a flow of migrants and fentanyl into the United States . <p> Israeli airstrikes hit a Yemen airport as a jet with hundreds onboard was landing , UN official says <p> UNITED NATIONS ( AP ) -- The top U.N . humanitarian official in Yemen says Israeli airstrikes hit Yemen 's main airport as a civilian Airbus 320 with hundreds of passengers on board was landing this week . He says a U.N . delegation led by the head of the World Health Organization was waiting to leave on Thursday as two Israeli airstrikes hit the airport in the capital of Sanaa . Julien Harneis told U.N . reporters on Friday that the most frightening thing about the airstrikes was n't the effect on him and about 15 others in the VIP lounge at the international airport . Rather , it was the destruction of the airport control tower as a Yemenia Airways plane was taxiing in after touching down . <p> DEIR AL-BALAH , Gaza Strip ( AP ) -- Gaza 's Health Ministry says Israeli troops have stormed one of the last hospitals operating in the territory 's north and forced many of the staff and patients outside . Then they had to remove their clothes in winter weather . Friday 's incident was the latest assault on Kamal Adwan Hospital . Staff say it has been hit multiple times in the past three months by Israeli troops waging an offensive against Hamas fighters in the surrounding neighborhoods . Israel 's military says Hamas uses the hospital as a base . It did not provide evidence , and hospital officials have denied it . <p> Judge signals that contempt hearing for Rudy Giuliani over his assets might not go well for him <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- A federal judge is signaling that Rudy Giuliani 's contempt hearing next Friday might not end so well for the former New York City mayor and onetime personal lawyer for President-elect Donald Trump . Judge Lewis J. Liman issued an order Friday in which he was dismissive of what he described as attempts by Giuliani and his lawyer to dodge providing information to lawyers for two Georgia election poll workers who won a libel case against him . The election workers were awarded $148 million in the defamation case and their lawyers have been trying to recover Giuliani 's assets to collect the judgment . <p> An online debate over foreign workers in tech shows tensions in Trump 's political coalition <p> WEST PALM BEACH , Fla . ( AP ) -- An online spat between factions of Donald Trump 's supporters over immigration and the tech industry has thrown internal divisions in the president-elect 's political movement into public display . The argument previews fissures and contradictory views his coalition could bring to the White House . The rift laid bare tensions between the newest flank of Trump 's movement -- that is , wealthy members of the tech world who want more highly skilled workers in their industry -- and people in Trump 's Make America Great Again base who championed his hardline immigration policies . <p> A 9th telecoms firm has been hit by a massive Chinese espionage campaign , the White House says <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- A top White House official says a ninth U.S. telecoms firm has been confirmed to have been hacked as part of a sprawling Chinese espionage campaign that gave officials in Beijing access to private texts and phone conversations of an unknown number of Americans . Administration officials said this month that at least eight telecommunications companies , as well as dozens of nations , had been affected by the Chinese hacking blitz known as Salt Typhoon . But Anne Neuberger , a deputy national security adviser , said Friday that a ninth victim had been identified after the administration released guidance to companies about how to hunt for Chinese culprits in their networks . <p> Sportscaster Greg Gumbel dies from cancer at age 78 <p> Longtime CBS sportscaster Greg Gumbel has died from cancer . He was 78 . His family announced his death in a statement released by CBS on Friday . In March , Gumbel missed his first NCAA Tournament since 1997 due to what he said at the time were family health issues . Gumbel was the studio host for CBS since returning to the network from NBC in 1998 . Gumbel signed an extension with CBS last year that allowed him to continue hosting college basketball while stepping back from NFL announcing duties . David Berson , the president and CEO of CBS Sports , described Gumbel as someone who broke barriers and set standards for others during his career . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
