<p> Google 's blowout earnings report in April , which sparked the biggest rally in Alphabet shares since 2015 and pushed its market cap past $2 trillion for the first time , tempered fear that the company was falling behind in artificial intelligence . <p> As executives enthusiastically talked about the results with Google 's employees at an all-hands meeting the following week , it was clear that Wall Street viewed things differently than the company 's workforce . <p> " We 've noticed a significant decline in morale , increased distrust and a disconnect between leadership and the workforce , " one employee wrote in a comment that was read by executives at the meeting . " How does leadership plan to address these concerns and regain the trust , morale and cohesion that have been foundational to our company 's success ? " <p> The comment was highly rated on an internal forum . <p> " Despite the company 's stellar performance and record earnings , many Googlers have not received meaningful compensation increases " another top-rated employee question read . <p> That meeting set the stage for what would be a year of contrasting takes from the company 's vocal workforce . As Google faced some of the most intense pressure its experienced since going public two decades ago , so too did CEO Sundar Pichai , who took the helm in 2015 . <p> Pichai oversaw a steady stream of revenue growth this year in key areas like search ads and cloud . The company rolled out groundbreaking technologies , rounded out its AI strategy despite a slew of embarrassing product incidents and saw its stock price rise more than 40% as of Thursday 's close , ahead of the S&amp;P 500 but trailing rivals Meta and Amazon . <p> Over the course of 2024 , many staffers questioned Pichai 's vision following product mishaps in the first half of the year as well as internal shake-ups and layoffs , according to conversations with more than a dozen employees , audio recordings and internal correspondence . <p> As the second half of the year progressed and Google rolled out a number of eye-catching AI products , Pichai 's standing improved , though some skepticism remains , sources told CNBC . <h> The AI race pressure cooker <p> After the introduction of ChatGPT in late 2022 , the tech industry saw an influx of AI products from Microsoft , with its Copilot AI assistant , and Meta , which placed its Meta AI chatbot in the search functions of its apps , as well as from hot startups like OpenAI and Perplexity . <p> The popularity of those tools has eaten into Google 's grip on U.S. search . The company 's share of the search advertising market is expected to dip below 50% in 2025 , which would be the first time falling below that mark in more than a decade , according to research firm eMarketer . <p> Google responded to the pressures from new AI tools with offerings of its own . The company in 2024 rebranded its family of AI models as Gemini and released a number of products that were well received . But in its scramble to play catch-up , the company also released a pair of AI products that initially proved embarrassing . <p> In February , Google launched Imagen 2 , which turned user prompts into AI-generated images . Immediately after it was introduced , the product came under scrutiny for historical inaccuracies discovered by users . Notably , when one user asked it to show a German soldier in 1943 , the tool depicted a racially diverse set of soldiers wearing German military uniforms of the era . <p> The company pulled the feature , and Pichai told employees the company had " offended our users and shown bias , " according to a memo . Google said it would take a few weeks to relaunch Imagen 2 , but it ended up being six months before it was revived as Imagen 3 in August . <p> " We definitely messed up on the image generation , " Google co-founder Sergey Brin told a small crowd at a hacker house in March , in a video posted to YouTube . " It was mostly due to just not thorough testing . " <p> When asked " How many rocks should I eat each day , " the tool said , " According to UC Berkeley geologists , people should eat at least one small rock a day . " AI Overview also listed the vitamins and digestive benefits of rocks . <p> Google responded by saying it would add more guardrails to AI Overview for health-related queries but said the mistakes were n't hallucinations , and were rather just rare edge cases . Search Vice President Liz Reid told employees at an all-hands meeting in June that AI Overview 's launch should n't discourage them from taking risks . <p> " We should act with urgency , " Reid said . " When we find new problems , we should do the extensive testing but we wo n't always find everything and that just means that we respond . " <p> Jaque Silva Nurphoto Getty Images <p> Beyond its AI blunders , Google also saw its greatest regulatory challenges to date in 2024 . <p> In August , a federal judge ruled that the company illegally holds a monopoly in the search market . The Justice Department in November asked that Google be forced to divest its Chrome internet browser unit as a remedy for the ruling <p> The DOJ 's request represents the agency 's most aggressive attempt to break up a tech company since its antitrust case against Microsoft , which reached a settlement in 2001 . <p> The remedies are expected to be decided next summer , and Google has said it will appeal , likely dragging out the situation a couple more years , but the company faces more antitrust hurdles . <p> In a separate case , the DOJ accused the company of illegally dominating online ad technology . That trial closed in September and awaits a judge ruling . In October , a U.S. judge issued a permanent injunction that will force Google to offer alternatives to its Google Play app store for Android phones . After the ruling in October , Google won a temporary pause on the ruling , meaning it wo n't have to open up Android to more app stores yet . <h> A search for vision <p> Amid the external pressure , Google notched some notable victories particularly toward the end of 2024 , leading to a more positive sentiment from people within and outside the company . <p> Google successfully launched its most powerful suite of new Gemini models that underpin all of the company 's AI products , including its lightweight model Gemini Flash , which has been popular among developers . YouTube 's combined ad and subscription revenue over the past four quarters surpassed $50 billion . <p> In the third quarter , Google saw the fastest-growing cloud business across the big tech players , up 35% over last year , with operating margins of 17% . The company has also seen double-digit revenue growth for each of the past four quarters and launched Trillium , its powerful sixth generation Tensor Processing Units , or TPUs , which were also found to have powered Apple 's AI models . <p> Despite the blunders , AI Overview reached nearly 1 billion monthly users by the end of October . Demand for AI software has also driven consistent growth for the company 's cloud infrastructure . And Google launched an impressive video generation product , Veo 2 , this month as well as an updated AI note-taking product , NotebookLM . <p> Beyond AI , Google in December announced Willow , a chip the company calls its biggest step in the march toward commercially viable quantum computing . The Waymo self-driving car unit was also a bright spot , expanding its robotaxi service to three cities and laying the groundwork for even more expansion in 2025 . The company has delivered 4 million fully autonomous rides this year , with plans to commercially launch in Austin , Texas , and Atlanta next year . <p> A Google quantum processor " Sycamore " is held up to the camera wearing blue gloves . In 2019 , Google made a breakthrough in quantum computing . <p> Peter Kneffel Picture Alliance Getty Images <p> But as Pichai approaches a decade running Google and starts his sixth year as CEO of parent Alphabet , questions remain about his ability to guide the company into the future . <p> Internally , employees routinely criticize leadership on the company 's Memegen messaging board , and some have aired their grievances publicly . <p> " Google does not have one single visionary leader , " a Google software engineer wrote in a LinkedIn post earlier this year that received more than 8,500 reactions . " Not a one . From the C-suite to the SVPs to the VPs , they are all profoundly boring and glassy-eyed . " <p> In October , Google announced it would shake up the leadership of its ads and search division . <p> The company replaced longtime search boss Prabhakar Raghavan with Nick Fox , a deputy of Raghavan 's and a career Google employee . Raghavan was given the title of " chief scientist , " but internally , he is now listed as an " IC , " or individual contributor . <p> Google also shifted the team working on its Gemini AI app to the Google DeepMind division , under AI head Demis Hassabis . Employees praised Pichai 's leadership shuffle , but some complained that the moves should 've happened sooner . <p> Notably , some employees were perturbed when Raghavan addressed employees at an all-hands meeting in April , when he urged them to move faster , according to several people who spoke with CNBC . Raghavan noted that the staffers working to fix the failed Imagen 2 tool had increased their workloads from 100 hours a week to 120 hours to correct it in a timely manner . <p> Pichai has made efforts to get Google back to its nimble startup-like culture . <p> When addressing employees , Pichai often name-checked co-founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page to remind them of Google 's scrappy roots . He 's flattened the company , removing 10% of middle management , according to audio of a December all-hands meeting . And in the spring , Pichai greenlit a hackathon , allowing employees to build using Google products that have yet to be announced . Pichai has also personally joined meetings with Google 's Labs team and enabled them to move quickly on products like NotebookLM , one of the company 's hit AI products in 2024 . <p> Google Co-Founder Sergey Brin speaks during a press conference after the third game of the Google DeepMind Challenge Match against Google-developed supercomputer AlphaGo at a hotel in Seoul on March 12 , 2016 . <p> Jung Yeon-Je AFP Getty Images <p> After Brin 's hacker house appearance in March , some employees internally joked he should retake the helm , nostalgic for what they perceived as a visionary leader devoid of corporate speak . <p> Brin co-founded Google with Page in 1998 , but he stepped down as president of Alphabet in 2019 . Brin , who remains a board member and a principal shareholder with a stake worth more than $140 billion , began appearing more frequently on campus starting in 2023 , as part of an effort to help ramp up Google 's position in the hypercompetitive AI market . Employees , particularly working in AI and DeepMind said they 've seen Brin walking around the company 's Mountain View , California , headquarters throughout the year and have been able to ask him questions for projects they 're pursuing . <p> Despite Brin 's reemergence , several employees told CNBC they 're doubtful he could adequately run what has become an increasingly larger and complex corporation . <p> Employees said that although Pichai did n't strike them as particularly visionary or as a wartime leader , it 's hard to find someone better suited for the job , given all the complexities of Alphabet . The key quandary remains : move too early and risk widespread criticism ; move too late and risk missing the boat . <h> Culture Clashes <p> Through the year , morale inside Google wavered . Efforts to cut costs across the company in order to invest more in AI resulted in some teams feeling bifurcated and created yet another challenge for Pichai . <p> Within the company 's AI and DeepMind divisions , morale is mostly high , according to employees , boosted by hefty investments . Elsewhere , the vibes have been marred by cost cuts , bureaucracy and declining trust in leadership , employees said . <p> DeepMind and AI teams have held off-sites , team-building activities , and have much bigger travel and recruiting budgets , people familiar with the matter said . In the spring , the company moved employees out of an eight-story office on San Francisco 's waterfront Embarcadero street and replaced them with AI and AI adjacent teams . <p> Google DeepMind co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Demis Hassabis gives a conference during the Mobile World Congress ( MWC ) , the telecom industry 's biggest annual gathering , in Barcelona on February 26 , 2024 . <p> Pau Barrena Afp Getty Images <p> A meme posted internally in November summed it up . <p> The meme featured a photo of the cast of " Wicked " actors , where one , labeled " execs " looked longingly at one fellow actor labeled " Gemini " while ignoring the other beside her , which was labeled as " users . " <p> A Google spokesperson contested the idea that AI workers are receiving favorable treatment and said higher travel and recruiting budgets are not exclusive to AI teams or DeepMind . <p> " Most Googlers , regardless of team , continue to feel positively about our mission and the company 's future , and are proud to work here , " the spokesperson said . <p> A fewemployees say they 're no longer incentivized by the prospects of landing a promotion , which have become harder to achieve , and rather by the hope of avoiding layoffs . <p> Despite slashing 12,000 jobs , or roughly 6% of its workforce , in 2023 , Google has continued eliminating roles this year . In her first public statements as Google 's CFO , Anat Ashkenazi , told Wall Street in October that one of her top priorities would be to drive more " cost efficiencies " across the company in order to invest more in AI . <p> " I think any organization can always push a little further and I 'll be looking at additional opportunities , " Ashkenazi said . <p> That month , Google posted a job listing for a " Central Reorg Support Team Partner . " The responsibilities of that fixed-term contract position would include consulting with local HR teams and noted the need for the support staff 's " ability to operate with empathy and diffuse/de-escalate challenging conversations/situations . " <p> " Hire the smartest people so they can tell us what to do , " one employee wrote on the internal forum in meme-style font atop the images of Brin and Page . " Hire a reorg consultant so they can tell us how to layoff the smartest people , " another said . <p> Google ultimately took the job listing down . <p> Pro-Palestinian protesters are blocked the Google I/O developer conference entrance to protest Google 's Project Nimbus and Israeli attacks on Gaza and Rafah , at its headquarters in Mountain View , California , United States on May 14 , 2024 . <p> Tayfun Coskun Anadolu Getty Images <p> Touting its AI technology to clients , Pichai 's leadership team has been aggressively pursuing federal government contracts , which has caused a heightened strain in some areas within the outspoken workforce since the beginning of the year . <p> Google terminated more than 50 employees after a series of protests against Project Nimbus , a $1.2 billion joint contract with Amazon that provides the Israeli government and military with cloud computing and AI services . Executives repeatedly said the contract did n't violate any of the company 's " AI principles . " <p> However , documents and reports show the company 's agreement allowed for giving Israel AI tools that included image categorization , object tracking , as well as provisions for state-owned weapons manufacturers . Earlier this month , a New York Times report found that four months prior to signing on to Nimbus , officials at the company worried that signing the deal would harm its reputation and that " Google Cloud services could be used for , or linked to , the facilitation of human rights violations . " <p> In an all-hands meeting in April , a highly rated question asked why employees who did not participate in the protests were also fired , which was reported and cited in a National Labor Relations Board complaint from affected employees . Chris Rackow , Google 's security chief , took the stage at the all-hands and rebutted those claims . <p> " This was a very clear case of employees disrupting and occupying work spaces , and making other employees feel unsafe , " a Google spokesperson told CNBC , adding that the company " carefully confirmed " that every person terminated was involved in the protests . " By any standard , their behavior was completely unacceptable . " <p> One internal meme that got more than 2,000 likes , compared Google to Star Wars ' Anakin Skywalker . The meme shows an image of a smiling childhood Skywalker , framed by one of the company 's original , colorful employee badges . The meme progresses Skywalker 's age in two later versions of the badge . <p> The final badge shows Darth Vader working for " Google , " spelled out in the font of IBM 's logo .
