<h> Dreams on a Pillow , a game about the 1948 Nakba , is the latest from a daring dev <p> XTINA GGmakes short-form videos for Polygon 's TikTok and Instagram channels , in addition to co-hosting streams and YouTube videos . They joined Polygon in 2022 . <p> Dreams on a Pillow is a video game experience about the 1948 Nakba , an event where roughly 700,000 people were displaced from their land and homes due to Zionist occupation . <p> The game , described as " a pseudo-3D stealth adventure game about a land full of people being made into a people without land , " is from Palestinian developer Rasheed Abu-Eideh . But before I tell you more about that , let me tell you about his previous game . <p> In 2016 , Abu-Eideh released Liyla and the Shadows of War , a game about a 2014 assault on Gaza by Israel , known as Operation Protective Edge . Liyla follows a Palestinian girl and her family as they navigate attacks in their neighborhood . It 's short but emotional , and it blends elements of platformers and **25;498;TOOLONG storytelling . In 2021 , the game was a part of an Indie Bundle Pack that raised nearly $900,000 for Palestinian aid through UNRWA USA . <p> Currently , Liyla and the Shadows of War is free on mobile and Windows . But back in 2016 , it was initially rejected as a game in the Apple App Store . Abu-Eideh was told to remove all description of it as a " Game " and re-categorize it as " News " or " Reference " due to its political nature . The hypocrisy of the decision was noted by many at the time : As reported by Eurogamer , Apple denied Liyla as a game , but allowed a game called Israeli Heroes in the game section . After Abu-Eideh spoke about Apple 's decision on social media , Apple finally allowed Liyla to be categorized as a game . <p> Dreams on a Pillow is currently being crowdfunded by Abu-Eideh on LaunchGood till Jan. 13 , and funds raised from the LaunchGood campaign will go towards asset creation , outsourcing , and salaries for the current team of 9 individuals . The game is aiming to launch in Q4 2026.
