<h> Assessing Turkish intentions after Assad 's regime fall <h> BEHIND THE LINES - Ankara appears set on a two-sided strategy to unify Syria under the rule of its Sunni Islamist client <p> A MEMBER of the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) stands along a street after rebels seized the capital and ousted Syria 's Bashar al-Assad , in Hasakah , earlier this month. ( photo credit : REUTERS/Orhan Qereman ) <p> Amid the euphoria following the toppling of the Assad regime in Damascus , the situation facing Syria 's non-Arab and non-Sunni Muslim minorities has been largely ignored . But even as the global media focuses on Damascus and speculates regarding the future intentions of the new power brokers , in another part of Syria the war is not over , and clashes are ongoing . <p> The area in question is Syria 's northeast , and the combatant sides are the US-aligned , Kurdish-dominated Syrian Democratic Forces ( SDF ) , and the Turkish-supported Sunni Islamist Syrian National Army ( SNA ) . <p> To understand the nature and dynamic of the conflict now under way in northern Syria between these two organizations , a number of broader dynamics must first be addressed . <p> Most notably , and perhaps insufficiently understood , is that the ending of 61 years of Ba'ath party rule in Syria is , above all , the triumph of one man . That man is not Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ( HTS ) leader Abu Mohammed al-Julani , though he is set to emerge as Syria 's new president . The man in question is Turkish President Recep Tayepp Erdogan . <p> Erdogan 's decision to refuse to cede a small corner of northwest Syria to the Assad regime enabled the slow growth of the forces that would eventually destroy Assad . For half a decade , this decision appeared inexplicable . Everyone else had long moved on from the Syrian civil war , assuming it was over . CHILDREN HOLD flags next to a sculpture of Druze warrior Sultan Pasha al-Atrash after Syrian rebels announced the ousting of president Bashar Assad , in the Druze village of Majdal Shams , Golan Heights , earlier this month . ( credit : REUTERS/SHIR TOREM ) <p> The Russians , sometimes shrewd and patient strategists , on this occasion , walked into a Turkish trap , taking their Syrian client regime along with them . In their strategy of " reconciliation " ' rather than outright conquest of Syrian rebel-held areas , they got around the problem of the most hard-core , determined insurgents by including an element in reconciliation agreements that allowed these men to keep their weapons and make their way to the Turkish-guaranteed enclave in the northwest of the country . <p> The idea , presumably , was that these men would then spend their time praying and training , in total irrelevance . Instead , as it turns out , with this practice Russia and the Assad regime busily stoked the fires that would eventually consume them . <p> But it should be remembered that in their northwest Syrian enclave , the Turks allowed the incubation of not one , but two Sunni Islamist armies and authorities . The first of these , HTS and its Syrian Salvation Government is the force that marched to Damascus and took power there in December 2024 . <h> Syrian National Army <p> THE SECOND group , the Syrian National Army ( SNA ) and its Syrian Interim Government , is a more direct creation of Ankara . It consists of north Syrian Sunni insurgent Islamist groups other than HTS , corralled by Turkey into a military force trained , armed , and directed by Ankara . <p> It is far less disciplined than HTS , with a track record in violence against Syrians belonging to non-Arab or non-Sunni minorities , such as the murder of prominent politician Hevrin Khalaf in 2019 . This force , supported by the Turkish army , carried out the ethnic cleansing of 300,000 Syrian Kurds from the Afrin area in 2018 . <p> The SNA has maintained a prison system in northwest Syria , in which torture and abuse are routine , and into which thousands of Syrians have disappeared . <p> Parallel to HTS 's drive on Damascus , the SNA launched its own offensive in <p> November 2024 . The SNA was directed not southward , against the regime , but rather eastward , against the Syrian Kurds . With close Turkish support , the SNA overran Tal Rifaat and then took Manbij , pushing the SDF back to the Euphrates River line . Their advance included , unsurprisingly , documented war crimes , including the filmed executions of two wounded soldiers in a hospital in Manbij . <p> The United States brokered a ceasefire along the river line but shelling has continued . The latest reports suggest that the SDF has now launched a counteroffensive in the direction of Manbij . <p> All indications suggest that the Turkish plan for Syria , now controlled by its clients , includes the destruction of the SDF , and of the political authority it defends , the Autonomous Administration of Northeast Syria . As of now , there are indications that a major new offensive by the SNA , supported by the Turkish Armed Forces on the town of Kobani , may be imminent . <p> The SDF would undoubtedly fiercely resist any invasion across the Euphrates . But with Turkish air power , artillery , and drone capacity involved , the fighting would be bloody , and Turkish success likely . What would follow , given the existing track record of the SNA , would almost certainly be ethnic cleansing and slaughter on a large scale . <h> Focus on the US <p> THE MAIN front to prevent any such incursion is political and is focused on the United States . Senators Lindsey Graham ( R.-S.C. ) and Chris Van Hollen ( D.-Md. ) introduced bipartisan legislation last week that would impose sanctions on Turkey in an effort to prevent an assault on the SDF east of the Euphrates . <p> It is not yet clear if these moves and other pressure will succeed . But given the strategic patience already displayed by the Turks in the Syrian context , it appears equally probable that their efforts to destroy the pro-US Kurdish authority will take at least initially a political , rather than military form . <p> On Tuesday , the interim Syrian authorities announced that an agreement had been reached following consultations for the dissolution of all armed factions in Syria . The consultations prior to the agreement , however , took place entirely between the HTS-led interim government , and the SNA . The SDF was not invited . <p> This appears to indicate that Ankara is set on a two-sided strategy in order to unify Syria under the rule of its Sunni Islamist clients . In this strategy , the threat of possible military intervention by Turkey will be maintained , while the SDF will be expected , in the shadow of this threat , to declare voluntarily its own dissolution before the rulers of the new , " unified " Syria . Otherwise , in the fullness of time , the newly equipped army of the new HTS regime will come across the Euphrates to " reunify " Syria by other means . <p> This strategy is likely to be aided by voices in the West , which recommend bowing to the Turkish project in order to keep Ankara " on side . " They will maintain that there is no longer any point in opposing the Turkish will in Syria , in backing lost causes , and so on . <p> For as long as roughly 2,000 US service personnel remain in eastern Syria , however , an all-out assault by Turkey remains an impossibility . The SNA by itself , meanwhile , appears not strong enough to make decisive advances against the SDF . So the stance of the US will be crucial . <p> From Israel 's point of view , the victory of Turkey in Syria ushers in a resurgence of Sunni political Islam on its borders . Also likely is a period of open competition between Israel and Turkey , with the latter in alliance with various Sunni Islamist forces , including those in the West Bank and Gaza . <p> Therefore , the interest is to keep the newly dominant forces as far away from Israeli communities as possible , and as militarily weak as possible , and to strengthen and preserve those elements resistant to the Turkish/Sunni Islamist project . <p> This explains Jerusalem 's current support for the Syrian Kurds and Israeli recent military moves . An SNA/Turkish victory in northeast Syria , and a reunited , resurgent Syria under Turkish and Sunni Islamist control , will constitute net losses for Israel in this new , emergent competition .
