<p> Saint Levant 's music is a tribute to what was lost in GazaSaint Levant has sold out U.S. and European venues with his album ' Deira , ' an ode to his heritage and the Gaza hotel his father built that was destroyed by an Israeli airstrike . <p> WASHINGTON , D.C. -- The 9:30 Club in Washington , D.C. , is known for its eclectic concerts , but it 's rare to see the venue draped in Palestinian flags and keffiyehs . The artist Saint Levant performed to a sold-out crowd in a night of celebration and reflection on Gaza . <p> Marwan Abdelhamid , who performs as Saint Levant , is a 24-year-old musician blending North African and Arab influences with rock , hip-hop , and R&amp;B . Born in Jerusalem and partly raised in Gaza , he has a French-Algerian mother and a Palestinian-Serbian father . This year , he performed at Coachella as one of the few mainstream U.S. artists who references the war in Gaza . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Saint Levant 's journey reflects what it means to create music and represent a Palestinian identity on a global stage while facing the direct outcome of war from far away and the public expectations that come with it . Before 2022 , his music was mostly political , rapping about his life dealing with checkpoints and military occupation in Jerusalem , the West Bank , and Gaza . Back then , he was more of a social media personality performing in sweaty basements . Later , he shifted to more personal themes of him falling in and out of love . His song " Very Few Friends " in 2022 went very viral on TikTok and got millions of streams on Spotify . This transition matched his new image , making him a 2023 Dior 's new fragrance ambassador and one of GQ 's Men of the Year . Now with the ongoing war in Gaza , he 's grappling with destruction while creating new music . <p> Fans help one another in wrapping a black-and-white keffiyeh , a traditional scarf that symbolizes solidarity with the Palestinian cause . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Farrah Skeiky for NPR <p> Last week , Abdelhamid finished a U.S. tour of his latest album , Deira , named after an iconic hotel his father built on Gaza 's seashore in the 1990s . <p> Now based in California , the young musician 's lyrics in French , English and Arabic give his work crossover appeal . " I think he 's very cute . He 's hot . He 's also a young man from Gaza who 's vocal about his principles , " said concertgoer Dima Alkakan . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Danny Hajjar , a music journalist focused on diaspora artists , described Abdelhamid 's latest album and D.C. tour as a moment of growth . " Since the war started , it seems like he 's found a balance between his role as an artist who grew up in Gaza with a massive platform and his persona as a loverboy who 's seen as sexy , " Hajjar said . <p> The songs that he played on the tour reminded me of the international mixes that played in the hotel 's dining hall . I grew up in Gaza and lived near this distinct reddish-colored hotel with its 22 rooms made of mud , each featuring a different tile design that is handmade . It was one of the rare hubs for both locals and foreigners . It was a refuge from Gaza 's hardships -- a place to relax , smoke hookah , enjoy the seafood and the Mediterranean beach view . <p> " You know , when you dream and revisit places from your childhood , it 's always Deira for me . Always , " Abdelhamid said . " For me , it 's like , oh my god , it 's a castle . But it 's really not . And I know there were n't that many rooms either . It was kind of , in a way , a boutique hotel , " he added , pausing to ask if I agreed with his memory -- or his description -- since he left Gaza when he was just 7 years old . <p> " I think he 's very cute . He 's hot . He 's also a young man from Gaza who 's vocal about his principles , " said concertgoer Dima Alkakan . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> While Abdelhamid 's question to me carries an artistic nostalgia , mine is tied to covering the 2014 war and reflecting on how international coverage of Gaza has evolved since . Al Deira , one of only a few hotels in Gaza City , was the base for many journalists covering conflicts , including the tragic killing of four children by an Israeli strike -- a scene that was witnessed by foreign journalists from the hotel 's seafront-terrace , just yards away . Since the start of this war , foreign journalists have been barred from entering Gaza unless they consent to a limited and highly restrictive tour conducted by Israel 's military . <p> Sponsor Message <p> Abdelhamid began working on his album before the war , which began after the Hamas-led Oct. 7 attack on Israel that killed about 1,200 people , according to authorities there . <p> Israel 's military has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians , according to Gaza 's officials . <p> " Deira was bombed in November of 2023 . The terracotta colors are still there , but the inside is all bombed . This is the reality of being Palestinian , specifically from Gaza . You see things that you love get destroyed , " Abdelhamid said . <p> " My music is super personal , but as a Palestinian , my very existence is political , " Abdelhamid said . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Farrah Skeiky for NPR <p> What started as a nostalgic project became a meditation on ruins and the foundation for his album . <p> Here is an extended version of our backstage interview with Saint Levant . <p> This interview has been slightly edited for clarity and length . <p> On the process of writing his song " Deira , " inspired by the hotel his father built in Gaza that was later destroyed : <p> Saint Levant : The song was inspired by Algerian cha ? bi music , specifically an artist called Dahmane El Harrachi . But I wanted to put my own twist on it . That comes from my relationship with both Algeria and Palestine -- so for me , the sound draws from Algeria , while the lyrics are inspired by Palestinian culture and dialect . My heritage is a bit unique . I 'd say I 'm like a cocktail : my mom is French and Algerian , and my dad is Palestinian and Serbian . So I 'm 1/4 of each . I was born in Jerusalem , raised in Gaza , and went to an American school . I speak Arabic with my friends , French at home , and English in America . Take all of that , put it into one person , bring them into the studio , and you get something like " Deira . " <p> On how he transformed nostalgia , which had turned into ruins , into a new project : <p> SL : After the hotel 's destruction , I see my songs and performance as a statement to the world : we are human . My song " Deira " captures the joys and sorrows of being Palestinian . Our identity is complex -- we 're not just political symbols or a stereotype of Arabs with little red hats . During the war in Gaza , I had friends calling me to talk about breaking up with their partners . <p> Sponsor Message <p> The concept of the album is a journey back to Gaza . We will return and rebuild . When I performed at Coachella , I explained the concept of this album . " Deira , " you know , looks like a hotel but it 's me and my dad walking into the hotel to do a performance . Right now , it 's science fiction in a way , but I 'm very inspired by Afrofuturism . Afrofuturism was a response to institutional racism . Science fiction has always been told through a white lens , and I like to use science fiction to imagine this return to Deira to do a concert in a liberated Palestine . That 's the concept for me : Deira is rebuilt , and it 's the opening . We are living in a liberated Palestine , and our kids are running around in the sand , trying to catch fish with their bare hands -- just like I used to do when I was a kid . <p> SL : A year and a half ago , we were doing shows for 150-200 people in sweaty basements -- it was just me and my guy , Henry . Now we 're doing 3,000 people in New York with full tech rehearsals , lighting , sound engineers , and a whole team . It 's been such a crazy transition , and I 've been catching up with it while pushing myself harder . I 'm never satisfied -- it drives me to grow , but also keeps me looking ahead . Even now , with 2,000-3,000 people shows , I 'm already thinking about the next phase : 5,000 to 7,000 . My mom reminds me to be present , so I try to pause and take it in , but it 's been a wild ride . <p> On being a loverboy after his breakout song " Very Few Friends " : <p> SL : I think I just made a song with a deep voice over an R&amp;B beat , talking about a lady , and people were like , " Oh , this is it . " I do n't like to label myself , but yeah , I am a loverboy . I love deeply -- not just romantically but also my friends , family , and craft . Everything I do comes from the heart , and I think people connect with that because they see I 'm emotional and not afraid to step outside the box of what an Arab guy is " supposed " to do . That 's from my dad -- he never cared what people thought and was into all kinds of random things . I 'm curious , eclectic even . That 's the right word , right ? Eclectic ? <p> " The concept of the album is a journey back to Gaza . We will return and rebuild , " Abdelhamid said . Farrah Skeiky for NPR hide caption <p> toggle caption <p> Farrah Skeiky for NPR <p> On how the war changed his approach to music : <p> SL : As Palestinian artists , we 've all been deeply affected by what has been happening in Gaza over the past year . Because at the end of the day , it is a bit tough to continue to make art , and while your brothers and sisters are suffering and are being displaced , and they 're living in tents , and you 're calling them , and they have no internet , and you 're scared . All Palestinians everywhere have been affected by this kind of survivor 's guilt , in a way . But my mom always tells me that my existence is resistance . For me , continuing to show up every day is more important now than ever . As an artist , I want to be careful , and I want to be sensitive . But for me , this war has only reaffirmed that our voice needs to be louder than ever . I believe the world is waking up to the atrocities that the Israeli occupation has been committing -- not just since October 7 , but over the past 75 years . People are just beginning to understand , and I truly believe a shift in the status quo is coming . Art is a part of that shift , and I think we are witnessing the birth of this new generation 's movement . At the same time , my music is super personal but as a Palestinian , my very existence is political , so I ca n't help that -- but it 's really just whatever is on my mind that day . I can make a song about anything I want . I 've never put any limits on myself . That comes from my dad , who always told me : never put a limit on yourself . Do whatever you want to do , and if you make a mistake , say sorry and keep working . <p> Sponsor Message <p> This interview was edited for radio by Adam Bearne and produced by Milton Guevara . It was edited for digital by Obed Manuel .
