<h> The year in letters : Readers did n't miss a trick in frenzied 2024 <p> From left : Bill Belichick looked on during a Patriots game at Gillette Stadium on Jan. 7 ; a crowd showed support as Karen Read left the Norfolk County Superior Courthouse on June 25 ; people watched as the eclipse began on Lake Champlain in Vermont on April 8 ; Donald Trump campaigned in the early morning hours of Election Day , Nov. 5 , in Pittsburgh.Winslow Townson/Getty Images ; Jessica Rinaldi/Globe Staff ; Danielle Parhizkaran/Globe Staff ; Doug Mills/The New York Times <p> Closer to home , Karen Read 's murder trial made worldwide headlines . Shelters overflowed while affordable housing remained elusive . MCAS foes seemed to have done their homework in pushing a winning ballot initiative . The New England Patriots parted ways with Bill Belichick , and the Boston Celtics held the NBA championship trophy high . <p> Eclipse watchers found they did n't have to see totality to be moved by the celestial wonder , and many found that for a brief moment in a crowd of strangers , all that divides us floated away . The feeling did n't last . <p> Yet every step of the bumpy way , our readers reminded us that the public discourse remains healthy and the debate goes on . Here 's a look back at 2024 as seen through an excerpted collection of letters to the editor . <p> -- Matthew Bernstein , letters editor <p> Advertisement <h> JANUARY : Claudine Gay out at Harvard ; Belichick out in Foxborough ; rent bidding wars <p> So at Harvard they shower Henry Kissinger with praise , but they find a way to denigrate and dispose of the first Black female president of the university because of some missing footnotes and some unpopular replies to sensitive queries ? I so wish Claudine Gay would have barreled through this barrage of baloney and stood her ground . That would have been her victory . It would have been difficult , but many lesser individuals have done it . ( Liz Casey ) <p> Claudine Gay 's testimony before the House Committee on Education and the Workforce on Dec. 5 , 2023 , led to the end of her tenure as president of Harvard University.Haiyun Jiang/Photographer : Haiyun Jiang/Bloom <p> While many may have been ecstatic to hear that coach Bill Belichick and the New England Patriots were parting ways , I felt distraught . Belichick provided the franchise with a level of stability and leadership that will never be replicated . In a world where many people constantly change how they appear to others , Belichick never wavered from staying true to himself . Superstardom did n't matter , and neither did feeding media narratives . There was only one goal , year in and year out : bringing home the Lombardi Trophy in February . ( Brianna Silva ) <p> Instead of a game of musical chairs for would-be renters , let 's create a sort of " Game of Homes " in which participants really get down and dirty , pitting their strategic skills , cunning , and , of course , weapons in a real fight to the signed-lease finish . This would make a perfect entry into the reality TV world . We 'll watch the battles rage among modest-income aspirants , twentysomethings backed by wealthy parents , and people with three jobs who still ca n't put food on the table . And we 'll get to see the interiors of loads of Boston-area apartments most of us ca n't afford ! ( Daphne Bishop ) <p> A special prosecutor appointed by the administration 's attorney general has raised a question that has seemed obvious to even the most partisan Democrat : that President Biden is failing and is not up to the job . Robert Hur has done Democratic voters a favor . We need to stop viewing Biden through the lens of being better than Trump and instead start asking ourselves whether he is up to the job for another four years . ( John J. Clifford ) <p> A thorough independent investigation of Steward Health Care is needed to determine whether funds that should have been invested in essentials such as life-saving equipment and payments for supplies , staffing , and rent were instead used for executive bonuses , directors ' fees , and stock dividends . This is a job for federal and state officials and investigators , but my vote goes to the Globe Spotlight Team . ( Lorna Fredd ) <p> Thanks to a Globe front-page story for adding another dimension to my retiree-grandmother identity : " militant . " I 'll own that with pride as a voting member of the Massachusetts Teachers Association who believes that paraprofessionals should get a living wage , teachers deserve compensation for hours that include so many more tasks than when I taught , and educators deserve respectful family leave benefits . My eyes always pop at the Globe 's characterization of workers who benefit from union organizing . You can call this grandma a militant any day ! ( Martha Matlaw ) <p> State Senator Lydia Edwards says that Milton 's vote against rezoning under the MBTA Communities Act makes it look as if the town 's residents are " scared of outsiders . " The real problem ? The accessibility of the MBTA service that 's supposed to be a central feature of the law . Because so many people will choose Interstate 93 over Milton 's woeful public transit , the law wo n't serve its purpose and instead will send even more traffic onto the clogged routes out of Milton . Fix the T and the votes will follow . ( Laura Murray-Tjan ) <p> The state is about to tell families again that there may be no room for them in emergency shelters . Expect more homelessness . Because where else do you go when the last refuge is taken away ? The street . ( Georgia Katsoulomitis ) <p> Karen Read left the Norfolk County Superior Court in Dedham after another day of jury selections in her murder trial on April 17 . Pat Greenhouse/Globe Staff <p> The only thing I have come to believe in the sad and sordid story of the Karen Read case is that I do not believe anyone who is involved . ( Shannon Goodwin ) <h> APRIL : the eclipse ; campus protests <p> My husband is on the sixth floor in post-op after cataract surgery . The nurse points me to the window . I put on the glasses and watch the eclipse event unfold . The surgeon comes in to check on the patient and congratulate him on successful surgery , then stands next to me , puts on glasses , and looks at the eclipse . The nurse asks my husband , " Do you want to see it , too ? " We help my husband up , and with glasses covering both his left eye patch and his right eye , for which he had cataract surgery a month ago , he stares at the eclipse . The moon and sun align as collectively we watch this natural phenomenon with a burst of optimism . ( Claire Laton-Taylor ) <p> Advertisement <p> Students at Tufts , MIT , and Emerson are beginning encampments in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza who have reportedly faced six months of indiscriminate bombing and intentional starvation at the hands of the Israeli government . These actions are inspired by Columbia University , where more than a hundred protesters were arrested . The suppression of legitimate pro-Palestinian speech is undemocratic , distracts needed attention from the escalating conflict in the Middle East , and , ironically , creates space for hateful ideologies like antisemitism to gain a foothold . Support for Palestinians must be accepted as a legitimate political position in this country . ( Nathan Foster ) <h> MAY : GOP hones its message on abortion ; Trump convicted <p> The chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee said , " We 're advising our candidates first of all to take a position on abortion that best matches the state they represent . " This proves what many of us have known all along about Republican politicians : They believe that abortion should be illegal in all cases except when it endangers the life of a vote . ( Dominic Cuc ? ) <p> Donald Trump prepared to make comments to members of the media after a jury convicted him of felony crimes for falsifying business records in a scheme to illegally influence the 2016 election , at Manhattan Criminal Court on May 30 in New York.Seth Wenig/Associated Press <p> Let it never be forgotten that on May 30 , 2024 , Donald Trump was convicted by a jury of his peers and that the individuals who were seated on this jury were accepted by both the prosecution and the defense as impartial and capable of rendering a fair decision based upon the evidence presented to them . The Republican Party now faces the historic but dubious distinction of nominating a convicted felon and serial liar for president of the United States . ( Martin Yaseen ) <p> Republican Senator Lindsey Graham referred to the flying of the insurrection symbol , the upside-down American flag , at the home of Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito as " not good judgment . " Going outside in subzero temperatures without a hat or gloves is not good judgment . Getting your boyfriend 's name tattooed on your arm when you 're 14 is not good judgment . What Alito did points to the justice 's inability to do the only thing his job requires : make highly educated , highly informed , thoughtful , and carefully considered judgments that will affect the lives of millions of people , now and in years to come . ( Naomi Angoff Chedd ) <p> Two days after the Rolling Stones concert at Gillette Stadium , my knees were still creaking . But that night , I felt immortal , just like Mick Jagger . If he can sing , dance , strut , shout , and give witness , well , so can I. ( Karen Algus ) <p> Either Hunter Biden and Donald Trump were both victims of miscarriages of justice or both were rightly convicted by a jury of their peers . There can be no other alternative . ( Brian Pomodoro ) <p> My wife , who is not a basketball fan , saw Jayson Tatum being interviewed after the Celtics won the championship . She was impressed with how down to earth he is . These Celtics respect their opponents , their coaches , the fans , and the game of basketball . They all proved that you can be a nice guy and still finish on top . ( Ken Slaughter ) <p> Jocardo Ralston , 47 , a Pennsylvania resident and supporter of President Biden , watched the presidential debate between Biden and Republican Donald Trump at Tillie 's Lounge on June 27 in Cincinnati.Carolyn Kaster/Associated Press <p> After his performance on the debate stage in Atlanta , I do n't think there is any other choice but to replace President Biden at the top of the Democratic ticket . There is still more than a month until the convention and more than four months until the election , so it is certainly possible . But time is of the essence . ( Cathy Putnam ) <p> The use of violence as a political weapon is never acceptable . An assassin 's bullet is not the way to prevent a Trumpian dystopia . It ought to go without saying that violence begets violence , and one shudders at the prospect of a series of assassinations across the American political landscape . No , as much as one might loathe the former president , his defeat must come by way of the democratic process that we embrace and he abhors . ( Michael Knosp ) <p> President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris have done a great job over the past three and a half years . This campaign should be a slam dunk : democracy vs. fascism . Biden trusted Harris to be his running mate in 2020 ; it 's time to trust her to carry on his legacy of hard work , legislative success , and decency into the next four years . ( Andrew Maynard ) <h> AUGUST : Mass. legislative session fizzles at the finish <p> In most jobs , the person who decides whether to hire and fire you and the person who controls your pay are the same person : what we call a boss . However , in the Legislature , there 's a split : The people who hire and fire you are your constituents , who can exert that power every election , and the people who decide your pay are the legislative leadership , who can dole out the perks with chairs , vice chairs , and other positions . The collective boss of " we the people " needs to do more to remind legislators whom they ultimately serve . ( Jonathan Cohn ) <h> SEPTEMBER : State Police recruit dies in training <p> It is unconscionable that a young man , training to be a Massachusetts state trooper , could die as a result of what officials described as a " defensive tactics training exercise . " That is a peculiar euphemism for a recruit 's allegedly having been pummeled to death . The current training protocol for State Police recruits is abusive , cruel , and dehumanizing and needs to be overhauled ASAP . ( Leslie Shapiro ) <h> OCTOBER : MCAS put to a vote <p> How we love numbers , data , ratings , lists , and rankings . They provide a sense of certainty in our uncertain lives . But no standardized test , or single assessment of any kind , is good enough to determine whether a child is qualified to graduate from high school . We need to look at the total picture because no student is standard . After all , we are n't educating widgets . ( Bill Schechter ) <h> NOVEMBER : Trump wins ; Moulton stirs debate <p> Like it or not , most Americans were in the mood for John Wayne movies . Democrats offered " Sesame Street " episodes instead . Therein hangs the tale -- and the election . ( Richard Chait ) <p> Donald Trump was elected by the popular vote and the Electoral College , by Americans who were looking for a change in the way our government is run and the policies that define it . ( Paul Faenza ) <p> Vice President Kamala Harris delivered a concession speech on the campus of Howard University in Washington on Nov. 6 . Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press <p> Of all the reasons given for Vice President Kamala Harris 's election loss , one remains largely unmentioned : old-fashioned male chauvinism . Strong women have been elected to lead democratic nations throughout the world , yet we remain the conspicuous exception . We preach a lot about inclusion in our democracy , but we still have a long way to go . ( Kate Robinson ) <p> Representative Seth Moulton is clearly upset at his party 's poor showing in the election , and in an embarrassing fit of pique , the congressman ( and grown man ) directed his rage not at the failures of his own party but at students at play -- children , in other words . And not just any children , but trans children , who already suffer some of the highest rates of bullying and suicidal ideation in the country . ( Mark Sheridan ) <p> It is possible to be totally supportive of transgender youth and also have concerns about girls competing in athletics against those who were born male . To deny or ignore the legitimacy of parental concerns about such competition -- and to shame those who express such concerns -- is the same kind of reflexive arrogance that cost the Democratic Party millions of votes . Unless we are willing to appreciate and discuss legitimate concerns of others , satisfactory solutions to issues will evade us and we will retreat to our echo chambers . ( Daniel L. Goldberg ) <h> DECEMBER : Biden pardons son Hunter ; health insurance CEO killed <p> In the debate over President Biden 's pardon of his son Hunter , let 's not lose sight of how important clemency , record sealing , and second chances are to countless other people across the country . People from powerful and wealthy families may not have to worry about getting a job or becoming homeless , but there are millions of others who desperately need second chances . ( Ventura Dennis ) <p> I can understand the anger at insurance companies that deny necessary health services and medications , but murder is definitely not the solution . I am appalled and embarrassed that so many people are cheering the death of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson and making the suspect in his fatal shooting into a folk hero . This is not the way to spur a debate about the health care system . ( Nancy Robertson )
