<h> The biggest geopolitical winners and losers of 2024 <p> Similarly to 2023 , 2024 proved to be one of the most unpredictable years in recent history , with developments completely upending the global order . <p> The largest war in Europe since World War II continued in Ukraine for the third year . At the same time , a series of escalations between Israel and the so-called " Axis of Resistance " completely upended the existing order in the Middle East . <h> Winners <h> Turkey <p> Though its rise has often fallen under the radar , Turkey has one of the best records of power projection of the 21st century . Under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , Turkey has decisively intervened in conflicts in Libya , Iraq , Syria , and Azerbaijan-Armenia , winning all of them . <p> All the while , Ankara has been able to successfully strong-arm Russia and the West and maintain good relations with each . <p> Turkey pulled off another massive victory in 2024 , being the central figure that backed and armed the rebel coalition that toppled the Assad government , finally reaping dividends for the central role it played in organizing the Free Syrian Army beginning in 2011 . <p> The Syrian Salvation Government , closely allied with Turkey , became the government of Syria on Dec. 8 . The Syrian National Army , effectively a Turkish proxy , played a pivotal role in the final rebel offensive , setting itself up as one of the dominant forces in the fragile new coalition governing Syria . With deposed leader Bashar al Assad gone and Turkey 's allies in control of Syria , Ankara looks poised to finally crush the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces in the north , long a thorn in its side . <p> It is likely that the new Syrian government , ruling over a country devastated by nearly 14 years of war , will be hugely reliant on Turkey for recovery efforts , allowing Ankara to exert enormous influence . <p> With the drastic losses suffered by Iran in 2024 , Turkey looks set to fill the power vacuum and establish itself in 2025 as the preeminent Islamic power in the Middle East . <h> Israel <p> On one hand , Israel experienced its worst year in recent memory in the realm of global opinion . Casualties from the war in Gaza saw anti-Israel protests break out across the world , particularly across U.S. college campuses . It also received one of its greatest legal blows when the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Yoav Gallant . <p> On the other hand , 2024 saw Israel achieve military victories unseen since its famous triumph in the 1967 Six-Day War . <p> Israeli intelligence regained the prestige lost by failing to detect Hamas 's Oct. 7 attack , first through the detonation of thousands of Hezbollah pagers and walkie-talkies on Sept. 17-18 , killing or wounding thousands . This was followed up with a series of decapitation airstrikes that killed every senior Hezbollah commander . Its Oct. 1 invasion of Lebanon met little organized resistance . <p> Hamas political chief Ismail Haniyeh was assassinated in Tehran , while Hamas 's Gaza head , Yahya Sinwar , was killed in a gunfight with the Israel Defense Forces . Hamas 's conventional strength was largely eliminated . <p> Two Iranian drones and missile strikes on Israel failed to inflict any significant damage , while Israel responded with massive strikes on strategic targets within Iran . <p> The crown jewel of Israeli success was the fall of longtime enemy Assad , cutting off Iran 's main supply route to Hezbollah . To prevent jihadist rebels from seizing Assad 's weapons , Israel launched a series of airstrikes that annihilated the Syrian Navy and Air Force . It also launched its first invasion of Syria since 1973 , establishing a buffer zone while encountering no resistance . <p> Israel enters 2025 at the peak of its power , having quashed or degraded nearly every regional enemy while suffering minimal casualties . The massive swell of negative public opinion has been largely irrelevant . <h> The Houthis <p> Houthi fighters march during a rally of support for the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and against the U.S. strikes on Yemen outside Sanaa , Monday , Jan. 22 , 2024 . ( AP Photo ) <p> While 2024 was distinguished by a series of shocking defeats for Iran and the " Axis of Resistance , " the Houthis proved to be a major exception . <p> The radical Shia militia group has consistently surprised observers in recent years , gaining the upper hand in the Yemeni Civil War and then fighting a nine-country coalition led by Saudi Arabia to a stalemate over the past decade . Following Hamas 's Oct. 7 surprise attacks against Israel , the Houthis entered the war by attacking shipping in the vital global trade chokepoint in the Red Sea . They vowed to continue the attacks until a ceasefire was declared in Gaza . <p> A coalition of over 20 nations led by the United States announced Operation Prosperity Guardian in December 2023 , aiming to protect shipping and degrade Houthi military capabilities . One year later , the massive armada has failed to have a major discernable effect . The Houthis have continued their attacks and even expanded military efforts to strike Israel with ballistic missiles . <p> Analysts have described the effort as the most intense combat experienced by the U.S. Navy since World War II . Some analysts have gone so far as to declare a Houthi victory over the coalition . <p> The Houthis 's victories have won them plaudits from the Islamic world and anti-Israel groups , even winning some sympathy from a few leftist figures in the U.S. They enter 2025 with their prestige at an all-time high , a sole bright point for Iran and the " Axis of Resistance . " <h> Argentina <p> While not experiencing dramatic victories such as Turkey 's or Israel 's , 2024 was Argentina 's best year in recent history . <p> In July , it won a morale boost after winning a record third Copa America title , its third straight major title after winning the same contest in 2021 and the World Cup in 2022 . <p> Victories for Argentina extended well beyond the sports realm , however , with controversial President Javier Milei 's first year in office seeing success . Inflation was drastically cut , the economy began to stabilize , and the deficit was slashed . <p> His work has won him the praise of the Bank of America , IMF , and President-elect Donald Trump . Meanwhile , Argentina 's aggressive foreign policy against Venezuela and Iran won plaudits from several Western allies , boosting its prestige . <p> A recent poll gave Milei a 56% approval rating , the highest of any president in the country 's recent history . For the first time in recent memory , Argentina enters the new year with a sense of optimism . <h> Losers <h> Iran <p> Following the conclusion of the Iran-Iraq War in 1988 , the young Islamic Republic of Iran began carefully building up its stance as a major regional player . By 2024 , Iran had built a network of militias numbering in the hundreds of thousands scattered across Lebanon , Syria , Iraq , Gaza , and Yemen . <p> Following a series of escalations in April , Iran launched its first direct missile attack on Israel , dealing minimal damage . Israel responded with devastating airstrikes on strategic targets , a pattern that repeated itself in September and October . Its deterrence was shattered by the degradation of Hezbollah and its failure to respond to the assassination of Haniyeh in Tehran . <p> Its leadership was left in disarray after the death of its President Ebrahim Raisi , viewed by some as the most likely successor to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , in a helicopter crash . <p> The year concluded with Iran 's biggest loss after jihadist rebels seized Damascus in a lighting offensive . After 13 years of investing tens of thousands of soldiers and billions of dollars in its longest-standing ally , Iran saw its largest base of operations outside of the mainland disintegrate in 10 days . <h> Hezbollah and the ' Axis of Resistance ' <p> A woman lights candles at the site where former Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah was killed by Israeli airstrikes in the southern suburb of Beirut , Lebanon , Nov. 30 , 2024 . ( AP Photo/Hussein Malla , File ) <p> Except for the Houthis , the " Axis of Resistance " appeared hesitant to come to Hamas 's aid with the onset of the conflict , with Tehran reportedly angry that the group had n't informed it about its attack plans . Hesitation from the " Axis of Resistance " allowed Israel to seize the initiative on every front , to devastating effect . <p> Hezbollah , which dealt Israel its only major defeat in its history in 2006 , was viewed as the most feared and capable paramilitary organization in the world . This mythos was thoroughly shattered beginning in September with the pager and walkie-talkie attacks . The ensuing Israeli air campaign stripped Hezbollah of the leadership that guided it through the 21st century . <p> By the time Israel launched its invasion of Lebanon on Oct. 1 , Hezbollah was in such disarray that it was unable to launch any significant attacks on IDF forces . The IDF suffered a few dozen killed , compared to potentially thousands of Hezbollah fighters . <p> Meanwhile , the Iraqi Shia militias failed to save the Assad government or take any significant moves against Israel . <p> After the ceasefire was signed on Nov. 27 , Hezbollah emerged as a spent and battered force , if not defeated . Its weakening may challenge its dominance of Lebanese politics in 2025 , while Israel may seek to finish it off . <h> Hamas <p> Hamas launched its surprise cross-border raid into Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , fully knowing that it could not defeat the IDF . Instead , it hoped that the Israeli invasion of Gaza would draw in Iran and the vaunted " Axis of Resistance " in order to overwhelm and defeat Israel . <p> Hamas 's strategy did partially work , bringing Iran and the " Axis of Resistance " into the conflict , but not at all in the way it expected . <p> With Hezbollah 's apparent defeat , the fall of Assad , and the ineffectual response of Iran , Hamas now faces the might of the IDF with no real major allies . <p> The war in Gaza continued throughout 2024 with just as much ferocity as in 2023 , leaving all of Gaza devastated . Haniyeh was assassinated on July 31 , while Sinwar was killed by the IDF on Oct. 16 . The fighting strength of Hamas was further diminished throughout the year . Its conventional fighting strength has vanished , while its overall manpower has been cut in half , according to analysts . <p> Ukraine 's 2024 saw quite a few successes , including an audacious operation in August that marked the first invasion of Russia since Nazi Germany 's Operation Barbarossa in 1941 . Ukrainian drone and missile attacks continued to disrupt the Russian economy and society , while Russia ended the year unable to kick Ukrainian troops out of Kursk fully . <p> However , 2024 was also a year filled largely with defeats for Ukraine , marking the first year where Russia fully seized the momentum across the front for nearly the entire year . Rather than any dramatic defeats such as those seen by Hezbollah and Iran , Ukraine largely saw a constant , grinding series of losses . <p> Beginning with the humiliating loss of Avdiivka in February , Russia proceeded to slowly but steadily advance across the entire Donbas front throughout the year . <p> Russia surpassed U.S. analysts ' expectations , making significant gains in the year 's second half after a predicted stalemate . Russian drone and missile attacks increased drastically , going from 350 in July to 1,500 in September . Despite heavy losses , a U.S. military official told the New York Times that the Russian Army has transformed itself since the stumbles of the initial invasion into a far more capable force . The Russian economy also weathered the massive sanctions for a third straight year , once again outperforming expectations . <p> Meanwhile , Ukraine suffered from heavy losses , manpower and equipment shortages , plummeting morale , and the waning of international interest -- particularly from the U.S. Perhaps the biggest loss for Ukraine in 2024 was psychological . After two years of insisting that it would only accept a return to its 1991 borders , Kyiv now increasingly signals a willingness to compromise on an unfavorable peace to end the war .
