<p> NOW THAT ISRAEL revised its doctrine , neighboring states ' armies should be deterred in peacetime and preempted in wartime , but jihadist militias should be fought anytime , because Israel can not afford their presence anywhere along its borders . Here , Houthi supporters raise their rifles along with th ( photo credit : ABDALLAH ADEL/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> It 's also possible that the interception occurred in an area that caused the sirens in these places to go off . <p> What matters is that the Houthis are not deterred despite recent IDF airstrikes . They appear ready to continue to attack Israel almost every night . They usually fire one missile at a time , meaning they would need to have a stockpile of dozens or hundreds of these missiles to keep this volume up for the next months . <p> Meanwhile the head of the Iranian Islamic Revolution Guards Corps ( IRGC ) Major General Hossein Salami praised the Houth " resistance and their support for Palestine , " saying that they will eventually emerge victorious , Iranian state media said . " The Yemenis Houthis will continue their resistance , as they have so far resisted with dignity , and they will ultimately win , " Salami said in an interview with the Houthis Al-Masirah TV Network on Saturday . A Houthi follower wears a vest portraying the Houthi leader Abdul-Malik al-Houthi during a parade held as part of a ' popular army ' mobilization campaign by the movement , in Sanaa , Yemen February 7 , 2024. ( credit : REUTERS/KHALED ABDULLAH ) <h> Iran claims " resistance axis " is as strong as ever <p> The IRGC leader claimed that Iran 's " resistance " axis has not been weakened . He is referring to Hezbollah and the fall of Assad . He is thus putting on a brave face as Iran invests in the Houthis as a kind of " last man standing " in the Iranian map of proxies in the region . Iran wants the Houthis to continue their attacks to keep pressure on Israel . <p> " He also hailed the Yemenis for their weekly rallies , which they have been holding on Fridays in support of the Palestinians in Gaza since the Israeli regime unleashed its war there in early October last year , " IRNA wrote . Iran is watching the Houthi attacks closely and hopes that they can keep them up for the next months . Iran knows that a ceasefire between Israel and Lebanon , that caused Hezbollah to stop its attacks , could end in the next weeks . Iran is watching closely what happens next .
