<h> It should n't take a miracle for the hostages to come home - comment <h> This year , the lights on the menorah shine alongside yellow ribbons , posters of the hostages ' faces , and the empty seats left for them . <p> ' A POWERFUL reminder of the resilience and hope that dwell within us all . ' Yuval Haran , a resident of Kibbutz Be'eri , returned to his home this week and lit a hanukkiah that was retrieved from the rubble . ( photo credit : CHEN SCHIMMEL ) <p> The Jewish people have faced many existential threats . One of the more poetic ones is the story of Hanukkah , which has some parallels with the painful struggle our state is facing today . <p> Antiochus 's empire had taken control of Judea and Jerusalem . Like the families today who wake each morning not knowing if their loved ones held in Gaza still live , abandoned by those who promised to protect them , the Jews of ancient Jerusalem lived under a shadow of fear and uncertainty . <p> Antiochus banned Jewish practices and desecrated the Holy Temple , much as terrorists on October 7 violated the sanctity of Israeli homes and communities in Israel 's South . His empire , the Seleucids , took Jewish children as hostages to ensure their parents ' compliance with Greek customs . I need not make the clear comparison here . <p> But in ancient times , a small group refused to accept this reality . Led by Judah Maccabee and his brothers , they launched a resistance against overwhelming odds . Today , the families of hostages show similar resolve . <p> They refuse to let their loved ones be forgotten , stage protests that fall on deaf ears , and demand action from a government that seems more concerned with political maneuvering than bringing their people home.TOMB OF the Maccabees near present-day Mevo Modi'im. ( credit : Wikimedia Commons ) <p> The Maccabees ' guerrilla warfare campaign lasted three years . Through strategic attacks , they gradually weakened the mighty Seleucid army , and their dedication to freeing their people never wavered . Like the families today who refuse to accept empty promises and bureaucratic excuses , who camp outside government offices , and carry photos of their captured relatives , the Maccabees understood that time was of the essence . <p> Each day meant more suffering for their people . <h> Time is of the essence <p> We , unlike the Maccabees , do n't have three years . Every single hour , minute , and second that has gone by without our hostages returning home is another hour , minute , and second that they are being held in horrible conditions with no access to medical resources , suffering in unmentionable ways , and enduring unspeakable trauma . <p> When the Maccabees finally recaptured Jerusalem and the Temple , they found it in ruins . But amid the devastation , they discovered one sealed jar of pure olive oil bearing the seal of the High Priest . <p> Though it contained only enough oil for one day 's lighting of the menorah , the small vessel burned for eight days -- just long enough to prepare new oil under conditions of ritual purity . <p> This miracle of light amid darkness resonates today with the families who cling to hope , who light candles at rallies , and who refuse to let the light of hope for the return of their loved ones be extinguished -- even as their government seems to prioritize everything else . <p> Like the Maccabees , who would n't accept defeat despite overwhelming odds , these families persist in their demands for action , for negotiation , and for the return of their people , even as weeks turn to months of anguished waiting . <p> Just as that small cruse of oil defied expectations to keep the Temple 's light burning , the families of hostages keep their own flame of hope alive , pressing for negotiations despite the endless stream of excuses and delays , refusing to let the world forget those who remain in captivity . <p> Each Hanukkah , when Jews light the menorah , they place it in their windows as a public declaration of the miracle of light overcoming darkness . <p> This year , those lights shine alongside yellow ribbons , posters of the hostages ' faces , and the empty seats left for them . Each flame is a bitter reminder of government inaction , each candle an accusation against those who could do more but choose not to . <p> The miracle of Hanukkah came from divine intervention -- but today 's families should n't have to wait for a miracle when human action could bring their loved ones home .
