<h> Deferring the dream of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict <h> A multilateral approach involving Saudi normalization could set a framework for future peace . <p> The Via Dolorosa in Jerusalem 's Old City is largely empty of worshipers on Dec. 8 . Shira Schoenberg/Globe Staff <p> On a Sunday afternoon in December , the Via Dolorosa was largely empty . The route Christians believe Jesus walked to his crucifixion was n't thronged with worshipers . After 14 months with Israel at war , Jerusalem 's Old City was bare of tourists . Arab shopkeepers played cards and looked at their cellphones . A few Jews walked to worship at the Western Wall . Stores opened late , closed early , or remained shuttered . <p> Gaza is in ruins . Israeli communities are evacuated . The region 's economy is reeling . Future peace between Palestinians and Israelis feels like a pipe dream , shattered when Hamas terrorists infiltrated Israel on Oct. 7 , 2023 , intent on murdering , raping , and kidnapping . The Middle East lurches from conflict to conflict , as Syrian rebels deposed Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad days after Israel and Hezbollah agreed to a cease-fire in Lebanon . <p> Yet perhaps the instability can pave the way for a glimmer of a brighter future . Assad 's fall in Syria suggests Iran and its " axis of resistance " are weakened by Israel 's damage to Iranian proxies Hamas and Hezbollah . That could make the moment right for the United States to support strengthening alliances between moderate forces in the Middle East , including helping Israel normalize relations with its neighbors . US President-elect Donald Trump -- a transactional businessman who brokered the Abraham Accords between Israel and some of its Arab neighbors -- should prioritize achieving a deal . <p> Long-term , this board continues to believe two states for two peoples is the best possible solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . But Israelis today will not accept a Palestinian state -- and the Palestinian people lack leadership to make one successful . An interim solution that gives the Palestinians increased self-governance , floods Gaza with international support to rebuild , and helps Israel build alliances with its neighbors could bring temporary peace while paving the way for a future permanent resolution . <p> The two-state solution was born out of the understanding that a one-state solution -- a state that incorporates the West Bank and Gaza with all of their residents into Israel -- would fundamentally alter the Jewish , democratic nature of Israel and would be unpalatable to both sides . There are 7 million Jews and 7 million Arabs currently living in Israel , the West Bank , and Gaza , each population with its own culture , identity , and mutual distrust . The two-state solution was the foundation of the 1993 Oslo Accords , the 2000 Camp David Summit , and Trump 's 2020 peace proposal . But an agreement on the details of a future Palestinian state -- borders , governance , and security -- has proved elusive . <p> Advertisement <p> For many Israelis , Oct. 7 destroyed that vision . Israelis fear a Palestinian state would pose an existential threat on their borders , and they see recognition of a state as a concession to terror . After all , Israel withdrew unilaterally from Gaza in 2005 and the result was violence . " You can find no Israeli today who speaks about the two-state solution , " said Michael Milshtein , head of the Palestinian Studies Forum at the Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies at Tel Aviv University . <p> Simultaneously , Palestinians have a leadership vacuum . Hamas , which led Gaza , is decimated and has lost any legitimacy as a governing body . The Palestinian Authority , which controls the West Bank , is led by aging leader Mahmoud Abbas , who is viewed among Palestinians as weak and corrupt . Palestinians have n't held elections since 2006 . Israeli Arab journalist Khaled Abu Toameh said the Palestinians he meets are more worried about returning to work in Israel and eliminating corruption within the PA than establishing a state . " I hear more people talking about a two-state solution in Washington than in Ramallah , " Abu Toameh said . <p> Yet a common thread runs through even the most disparate proposals for resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , which is the need for two entities for two peoples ; the question is what that looks like . Far-right politicians in Israel seeking to annex parts of the West Bank would extend Israeli sovereignty to large Israeli settlement blocs but leave Gaza and parts of the West Bank to Palestinian governance . On the left , a plan by Palestinian lawyer and adviser to peace negotiations Hiba Husseini and former Israeli minister Yossi Beilin would create a " confederation , " essentially two states but with porous borders . <p> Advertisement <p> The need for political vision to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is greater than ever . With Iran weakened , the West has an opportunity to strengthen a bloc of Arab states that oppose Iran 's radicalism and are willing to work with the United States and potentially Israel . The biggest opportunity could be the normalization of relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia -- discussions of which were ongoing before the Oct. 7 attack and have resumed recently as part of negotiations for a Gaza cease-fire . Saudi officials have said they would support normalization with Israel as part of a deal that ends the war and includes Israel 's commitment to a pathway toward a Palestinian state . <p> What could that look like ? Israeli intellectual and author Micah Goodman suggested a plan could be based partly on one Trump proposed in 2020 . Israel would support Palestinian self-governance over Gaza and the parts of the West Bank currently under Palestinian civil authority , with roads and bridges giving Palestinians free movement between towns . This structure , Goodman said , " creates the sense of a real self-governing political entity " and eliminates the " lived experience of occupation " by limiting checkpoints . <p> Israel would retain the right to enter the territory and to maintain any buffer zones and barriers needed to ensure Israeli security . Palestinians would have the freedom to elect a government and build a society . Israel would need to crack down on vigilante violence against Palestinians by Jewish settlers , making clear that violence against people or property is illegal and unacceptable . Unlike in prior proposals , the Palestinians would not be forced to recognize an Israeli state or give up on compensation for Palestinian refugees displaced in 1948 . Those issues would be deferred , as would statehood . <p> Advertisement <p> Instead , Israel 's payment for the concessions would be normalization with Saudi Arabia , which could reap financial and political benefits for Israel . <p> As Goodman puts it , such a plan " does n't end the conflict . It shrinks the conflict . " <p> Of course , 2024 is not 2020 , and any plan needs to include a realistic way to rebuild Gaza and turn it into a functioning -- and ideally , thriving -- society . This will require a functioning Palestinian governing body unaffiliated with Hamas and significant international assistance , particularly from the surrounding Arab states . There might need to be a temporary Israeli military administration to facilitate the transition away from Hamas , but ultimately , the Palestinians will need to create their own local leadership to handle civil affairs . They may need support from an international force and will need international aid for rebuilding , with Israel providing basic utilities like water and energy . There will be roles for nongovernmental organizations with expertise in health care and education and for Palestinians living abroad to contribute money and support . <p> If such a plan is to lay the ground for a future Palestinian state , Palestinians will have to take the opportunity to build trust with Israel and change a culture that demonizes Israel -- replacing an educational curriculum that urges armed struggle and dehumanizes Jews and eliminating government programs that pay families of terrorists who kill Israelis . <p> Advertisement <p> Samer Sinijlawi , a Palestinian activist who founded the Jerusalem Development Fund , said Palestinians need younger , democratically elected leadership combined with a shift away from violence against Israelis toward engagement with them . " Any progress that can benefit the Palestinians , change their lives , bring statehood , respect , dignity , freedom , economic development , it does n't come via Washington , D.C. , Cairo , Riyadh , " Sinijlawi said . " It comes through Tel Aviv , Rehovot ... through every neighborhood in Israel . When we win their hearts and minds , when we convince them they can trust us for their security . " <p> Sinijlawi said Palestinians tried violence on Oct. 7 and Israelis reacted with military might , and neither will resolve the conflict . The only way to save future lives , he said , is a diplomatic solution . Or as Sinijlawi called it , rather than pursuing a " war of no choice , " it is time to pursue " peace of no choice . "
