<h> When burning hospitals are no longer news <p> A fire burns as seen through a window of Kamal Adwan hospital in Beit Lahiya , in the northern Gaza Strip on December 18 , 2024 File : Reuters/Stringer <p> This morning , I opened social media to search for Gaza news . I had to scroll for a while through my newsfeed before seeing the first mention of my homeland . <p> Yet , the news we receive from Gaza through friends , family and social media is no less grim than it was a year ago . Its people continue to cry out for help , hoping the world would hear them . <p> For three months , Dr Hussam Abu Safia , the director of Kamal Adwan Hospital in Beit Lahiya , northern Gaza , sent appeals for help to the world , as the Israeli army besieged the hospital , cut off supplies , bombarded it , slaughtered people in its vicinity and injured some of the medical staff and patients inside . <p> In a video appeal posted on December 12 , Dr Abu Safia lamented : " We are now without any capacity and providing a low-level service . I hope that there are listening ears . We hope that there is a living conscience that hears our plea and facilitates a humanitarian corridor to the hospital so that Kamal Adwan Hospital continues its work to provide services . " <p> Advertisement <p> But his cries for help fell on deaf ears . The day after Christmas , Israeli bombardment killed a woman at the hospital 's front gate and five medical workers : Dr Ahmed Samour , a paediatrician ; Esraa Abu Zaidah , a laboratory technician ; Abdul Majid Abu al-Eish and Maher al-Ajrami , paramedics ; and Fares al-Houdali , a maintenance technician . Shrapnel shattered the skull of nurse Hassan Dabous inside the hospital , putting his life in danger . <p> Yesterday , Israeli soldiers stormed the hospital and set it on fire , expelling 350 patients and kidnapping Dr Abu Safia and other medical staff . <p> This horrific news barely made a blip in international media ; there were no reactions from foreign governments or leading institutions , except a few Middle Eastern states and the WHO . Israel has clearly been successful in normalising its brutal attacks , destruction of Palestinian hospitals , and killing of Palestinian patients and medical staff . <p> There was also no reaction from the world when earlier this month , Dr Said Joudeh , the last remaining orthopaedic surgeon in north Gaza , was assassinated on his way to work at the barely functioning al-Awda Hospital in Jabalia refugee camp . Dr Joudeh was a retired surgeon who felt compelled to return to work because of the desperate shortage of doctors caused by Israel 's targeted killings . <p> Just a week before his murder , he had learned that his son , Majd , had been killed . Despite his grief , Dr Joudeh continued his work . <p> Israel is seeking to eliminate all aspects of civilian life in northern Gaza as part of a policy to depopulate it . For this reason , it is targeting civilian infrastructure across the north and obstructing its functioning . The few medical facilities were the last remaining vestiges of civilian life . <p> Advertisement <p> Apart from trying to exterminate medical workers , the Israeli army is also systematically blocking civil defence teams and ambulances from saving lives in the north , often hitting and killing them when they try to do so . <p> And it is not just appeals from the north that are being ignored . <p> The whole of Gaza has been stricken by famine as Israel has dramatically decreased the number of humanitarian and commercial trucks entering the Gaza Strip . Hunger is omnipresent and is affecting even those who may have some means to buy food but can not find any . <p> My cousin , an UNRWA teacher , recently told me about his visit to his sister , who was ill and displaced in Deir el-Balah . While he was visiting , he could not sleep . He had not eaten bread for 15 days , but it was not his own gnawing hunger as a diabetic that kept him up . It was the cries of his sister 's children who begged for just a piece of bread . Desperate to comfort them , my cousin told them story after story until they drifted to sleep . But he remained awake , haunted by their hunger and his own . <p> Apart from food , Israel is also blocking the delivery of much-needed materials to build shelters . Four babies have already frozen to death since the start of this month . <p> Amid the famine and harsh winter , Israeli bombardment of homes and tents of the displaced has not stopped . <p> On December 7 , a distant relative , Dr Muhammad al-Nairab , lost his wife and three daughters when the Israeli army hit their home in Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood , west of Gaza City . Two of his daughters , Sally and Sahar , were doctors , helping save lives . They no longer can . <p> Advertisement <p> When my niece , Nour , a mother of two , reached out to her uncle , Dr Muhammad , to extend her condolences , she found the pain of his loss intolerable . I spoke to her shortly after . Her words pierced through the despair like a scream : " When will the world hear us and see us ? When will these massacres matter ? Are we not human ? " <p> On December 11 , another family was hit not far from Dr Muhammad 's home in Sheikh Radwan neighbourhood . That Israeli attack killed Palestinian journalist Iman al-Shanti , along with her husband and three children . <p> Days before her murder , Iman shared a video of herself reflecting on the reality of genocide . " Is it possible for this level of failure to exist ? Is the blood of the people of Gaza so cheap to you ? " she asked the world . <p> There was no answer . Just like war crimes against Palestinians have been normalised , so has Palestinian death and pain . This normalisation not only silences their suffering but also denies their humanity . <p> Yet for Palestinians , the pain of loss is anything but normal -- it lingers , sinking into the soul , raw and unrelenting , carried in the echoes of those they have lost , both inside and outside Gaza . It is a transnational pain , a grief that crosses borders and defies boundaries , binding Palestinians in exile to those enduring the horrors of genocide . <p> In a December 3 social media post , journalist Dayana al-Mughrabi , who is currently displaced in Egypt , captured the unending grief of Gaza 's people : " Our loved ones do n't die once , they die many times after their actual death . A person died the day he died , then he died again the day his watch that I kept on my wrist for years was broken . He died again when the teacup he used to drink from shattered . That person died yet again on the day that reminds us of their actual date of death , and after their burial , when the coffee residue was washed from his last cup , and when I saw someone collecting the rest of his medicine to get rid of it . Those we love continue to die many times -- they never stop dying -- not a single day . " <p> Advertisement <p> While this replaying of death happens more than 45,000 times , the world seems ready to move on from Gaza . Fifteen months into this genocide , advocates and activists across the globe are devastated and exhausted by the endless destruction in Gaza and the overwhelming silence and acceptance of it . <p> As a native Palestinian and third-generation Palestinian refugee , despite the indelible marks left on the soul by genocide -- marks that time can not erase -- I refuse to lose hope . I am reminded of the words of Czech dissident Vaclav Havel : " Hope is definitely not the same thing as optimism . It is not the conviction that something will turn out well , but the certainty that something makes sense , regardless of how it turns out . " <p> The South Africa case against the apartheid regime at the International Court of Justice and the work of the International Criminal Court are not just significant -- they are crucial in establishing Israel 's status as a pariah , one among nations that have sought the eradication of entire peoples . The world must not forget Gaza . Now , more than ever , its cries must be heard and the call for justice must be answered . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
