<h> Yasiin Bey &amp; The Alchemist Announce New Album " FORENSICS " With Live World Premiere <p> LONDON , ENGLAND - JULY 18 : Mos Def ( R ) is seen backstage at the UK Launch of ' Gin &amp;amp ; Juice By Dre and Snoop ' at Flipper 's Roller Boogie Palace on July 18 , 2024 in London , England . ( Photo by Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Flipper 's ) <p> Link Copied to Clipboard ! <p> Folks will get to hear the album on January 25 , but there 's a catch . <p> If hip-hop fans were n't looking forward to 2025 before this weekend , then they definitely are now . Yasiin Bey -- formerly known as Mos Def -- and The Alchemist recently announced their group name and self-titled album FORENSICS for a 2025 release , which they will preview via a January 25 live world premiere at Le Trianon in Paris . Tickets are available via the DICE platform , and it looks like the album will still come out via more traditional formats later in the year . However , this is n't super clear , so do n't get your hopes up too high . This follows Bey 's Money Christmas EP from just a couple of weeks ago . <p> The Alchemist also released some new material recently , namely the collaborative album The Skeleton Key with Roc Marciano . It forms part of a prolific run as usual for the producer in 2024 : Gangrene 's ( his group with rapper and beatsmith Oh No ) Heads I Win , Tails You Lose , his The Genuine Articulate solo album , and the Big Hit and Hit-Boy collab Black &amp; Whites . With all this in mind , FORENSICS with Yasiin Bey should make for an amazing experience that we 're very much looking forward to . <h> Yasiin Bey &amp; The Alchemist Are FORENSICS <p> Other than that , both hip-hop leaders have kept busy in the year with performances , fan events , and other endeavors outside of their musical releases . The Alchemist is always on go mode , whereas Yasiin Bey is sometimes more elusive but nonetheless captivating and active , even if it 's from more of a behind the scenes festival . That was n't the case for a Sudan and Gaza benefit show in London , though , where he performed along with artists like Earl Sweatshirt , King Krule , Mustafa , Blood Orange , Ramy Youssef , and more . So they 've both been honing their craft and making magic happen , which makes the lead-up to FORENSICS all the more exciting . <p> Meanwhile , apart from Yasiin Bey , The Alchemist has also hinted at many more big things to come in 2025 , which can only mean good things coming from Uncle Al . He already had a heck of a year with a diss track beat that shook the world and loads of amazing music on top of that , so to see this crossover with another rap legend is a true treat . Even if it 's just for this live setting or if FORENSICS drops in a limited capacity , we 're simply happy and content to witness this . <p> Gabriel Bras Nevares is a staff writer for HotNewHipHop . He joined HNHH while completing his B.A. in Journalism &amp;amp ; Mass Communication at The George Washington University in the summer of 2022 . Born and raised in San Juan , Puerto Rico , Gabriel treasures the crossover between his native reggaet ? n and hip-hop news coverage , such as his review for Bad Bunny 's hometown concert in 2024 . But more specifically , he digs for the deeper side of hip-hop conversations , whether that 's the " death " of the genre in 2023 , the lyrical and parasocial intricacies of the Kendrick Lamar and Drake battle , or the many moving parts of the Young Thug and YSL RICO case . Beyond engaging and breaking news coverage , Gabriel makes the most out of his concert obsessions , reviewing and recapping festivals like Rolling Loud Miami and Camp Flog Gnaw . He 's also developed a strong editorial voice through album reviews , think-pieces , and interviews with some of the genre 's brightest upstarts and most enduring obscured gems like Homeboy Sandman , Bktherula , Bas , and Devin Malik .
