<h> Trump has promised harsher immigration policies in his second term and said that he would deport those who support ' jihadism , anti-Americanism , or antisemitism . ' <p> U.S. President-elect Donald Trump adjusts the microphone as he meets with House Republicans on Capitol Hill in Washington , U.S. , November 13 , 2024. ( photo credit : REUTERS/BRIAN SNYDER ) <p> Fearing a crackdown on immigration , several US universities have urged international students to return to campus before President-elect Donald Trump 's inauguration on January 20 of next year . <p> CNN reported that several universities have advised international students to return to campus before the end of winter break to avoid being stranded abroad due to a potential travel ban similar to the one Trump implemented at the start of his first term . <p> According to the Institute of International Education , the US hosted a record 1.1 million international students during the 2023-2024 school year . Demonstrators gather at a protest encampment in support of Palestinians , amid the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas , in University Yard at George Washington University in Washington , US , May 2 , 2024. ( credit : Nathan Howard/Reuters ) <p> " A travel ban is likely to go into effect soon after inauguration , " Cornell 's Office of Global Learning wrote in a statement to students last month . " The ban is likely to include citizens of the countries targeted in the first Trump administration : Kyrgyzstan , Nigeria , Myanmar , Sudan , Tanzania , Iran , Libya , North Korea , Syria , Venezuela , Yemen , and Somalia . New countries could be added to this list , particularly China and India . " <p> Ahead of his second presidential term , Trump has promised to enact harsher immigration laws and is seeking a travel ban on places such as Gaza , Syria , Somalia , Yemen , and Libya out of fear of a massacre similar to that of October 7 . <p> Additionally , while on the campaign trail , Trump also promised to deport those with " jihadist sympathies . " <h> Trump promises deportations <p> The president-elect has previously said that he would send immigration officers to pro-Palestinian protests on campuses in order to protect the US , CNN reported . <p> " When I am president , we will not allow our colleges to be taken over by violent radicals , " Trump said in May , as reported by NBC . " If you come here from another country and try to bring jihadism or anti-Americanism or antisemitism to our campuses , we will immediately deport you . " <p> Trump has also said that he would enforce " strong ideological screening of all immigrants to the United States " and promised that the US would block " dangerous lunatics , haters , bigots , and maniacs " from getting US residency , according to CNN . <p> " We 're very uncertain about the future , " Gabrielle Balreira Fontenelle Mota , 21 , told CNN . Mota , who comes from Brazil , studies at NYU . " I 'm not from a Muslim country or from China , which are places that Trump usually criticizes . So I do n't feel as vulnerable as other international students . ... What makes me a little bit more concerned is the ideological screenings that ( Trump ) said he will be implementing . " <p> At the same time , Trump has proposed to " automatically " give green cards to graduates of US higher education institutions , including junior colleges , according to NBC reports . <p> " What I want to do and what I will do is if you graduate from a college , I think you should get automatically , as part of your diploma , a green card to be able to stay in this country , " NBC quoted Trump as saying in June . <p> A spokesperson for the Trump campaign commented at the time that the proposal was only intended for highly skilled graduates and that all applicants would be screened to " exclude all communists , radical Islamists , Hamas supporters , America haters , and public charges , " CNN reported .
