<h> Trump is n't the first to sue over the word ' rape . ' A Northwestern professor lost his case <h> A decade ago , a Cook County judge who dismissed a lawsuit by former Northwestern professor Peter Ludlow confirmed that " rape " and " sexual assault " -- what he was technically accused of -- are interchangeable in common usage . <p> A major media outlet reported that a public figure accused of sexual assault was accused of " rape . " The accused saw an opportunity to use the court system to retaliate . He filed a defamation lawsuit seeking substantial damages . <p> The effect of the lawsuit on the climate for press freedom was ... nonexistent . It was thrown out of court , and the plaintiff did n't see a dime . <p> As you might have guessed , I 'm not talking about Donald Trump , who recently extracted a $15 million settlement from ABC over George Stephanopoulos using the R-word in discussing the sexual abuse verdict against the president-elect . Many fear the settlement will lead to timidity by the press during Trump 's second term . <p> I 'm talking about Peter Ludlow , a Northwestern professor accused of sexual assault over a decade ago . The court that disposed of his lawsuit confirmed that " rape " and " sexual assault " -- what he was technically accused of -- are interchangeable in common usage ( they 're synonyms according to Merriam-Webster ) . An appellate court affirmed the dismissal , though on different grounds . <p> Opinion bug <h> Opinion <p> Full disclosure : I was part of the legal team that defended the Chicago Sun-Times against Ludlow 's lawsuit , along with my former law partner , Damon Dunn , whom ABC probably should have hired . Ludlow also unsuccessfully sued Cumulus Broadcasting and Fox Television Stations . <p> The court , of course , got it right . No damages result from which synonym a reporter chooses . Find me the person or company that 's eager to do business with alleged sexual assailants and abusers but draws the line at alleged rapists . It 's certainly not Northwestern . The university initiated termination hearings against the professor after an investigation found he sexually harassed two students , leading to his resignation . <p> So why did the ABC case turn out differently ? To ABC 's credit , it did seek early dismissal , just like Sun-Times , but it lost . It should 've prevailed , but sometimes a case just draws the wrong judge . <p> Losing a motion to dismiss is n't the end of a court case , though . Plus , news outlets usually do n't pass up opportunities to depose presidents about serious , salacious allegations . Imagine a news broadcaster surrendering a chance to question Bill Clinton under oath about his sex life during the Monica Lewinsky scandal . <p> Some have speculated there must be more to the story . Did ABC fear embarrassing correspondence coming out in discovery ? Maybe . Fox News probably wishes it settled ( much stronger ) defamation claims by Dominion Voting Systems before damaging messages emerged . <h> Why settle flimsy case ? <p> But there 's too much at stake for Disney-owned ABC to worry about embarrassment . Paying millions to settle a flimsy case from an anti-press president-elect sets a damaging precedent , especially for smaller outlets and independent journalists without Mickey Mouse 's moneybags . <p> Anyway , whatever discovery would 've revealed does n't change what Stephanopoulos said or impact the legal question of whether it was meaningfully more damaging than the undisputed truth : A jury of Trump 's peers found him liable for sexual abuse . <p> That jury , by the way , awarded E. Jean Carroll $5 million . Was Trump damaged three times more by Stephanopoulos ' choice of words than Carroll was by being sexually abused ? And contrary to common belief , the $15 million is n't going to a presidential library , it 's going to a private foundation Trump 's team can use to fund a propaganda shrine . <p> Other reports , citing anonymous Disney executives , suggest ABC believed it was serving the greater good ( seems like the kind of self-serving " leak " someone doing damage control might recommend , but I digress ) . Those sources noted that if the case proceeded , Trump could use it as a vehicle to challenge New York Times v. Sullivan . <p> That Supreme Court case established a high bar for defamation claims against public officials , recognizing the Fourth Estate needs breathing room for inadvertent errors to speak truth to power . The line between caution and self-censorship is thin . <p> Attempts to walk Sullivan back are a real concern -- at least one Supreme Court justice , Clarence Thomas , wants to do just that -- as does Florida Gov . Ron DeSantis . But that excuse for settling seems like a cop-out . If news outlets write eight-figure checks to get rid of defensible cases out of fear of harming Sullivan , then what good is Sullivan anyway ? <p> Back in the days when news outlets were owned by news companies , a strong First Amendment was fundamental to their economic interests . Unless they 'd messed up badly , they rarely settled , even when it would be cheaper than litigating . It 's fair to question whether that equation changes when news comprises just a fraction of ownership 's holdings . <p> As newsrooms shutter nationwide , Trump and other censorial public figures emboldened by his antics will continue attempting to tame the watchdogs by kicking them while they 're down . To their future victims : Be like the Sun-Times and its co-defendants . Do n't be like Disney . <p> Seth Stern is the director of advocacy at Freedom of the Press Foundation and a First Amendment lawyer . <p> The views and opinions expressed by contributors are their own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Chicago Sun-Times or any of its affiliates . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza .
