<h> Trump making Middle East safer since election landslide - opinion <h> But , of course , no one understood how important it is to hold out for Trump better than Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> US PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump and secretary of state-designate Marco Rubio attend a campaign event before last month 's presidential election . ' Israeli officials have told me privately that they can not wait for Secretary of State Antony Blinken to be replaced by Marco Rubio , ' says the writer. ( photo credit : Jonathan Drake/Reuters ) <p> If an alien arrived in the United States of America and asked to be taken to its leader , there is no doubt it would be taken to US President-elect Donald Trump and not outgoing President Joe Biden . <p> Even though Trump has not yet taken office , he is already doing much more than the man still on the job to make the world a safer place . <p> While Biden has taken care of his family by pardoning his son , Hunter , Trump has been taking care of the world : meeting with top international figures , planning policies , and holding press conferences in which he knows what to say and what not to say . <p> Trump 's vow that there would be " hell to pay " in the Middle East if the hostages held in the Gaza Strip are not released by his January 20 inauguration finally gave hope to their loved ones . <p> Most importantly , he has repeatedly left open the possibility never seriously considered by Biden to attack Iran and prevent the Islamic Republic from obtaining nuclear weapons that would endanger the entire world . <p> " Anything can happen , " he told Time magazine in his Man of the Year interview . " It 's a very volatile situation . " <p> That volatile situation requires American deterrence . The mere presence of Trump on the way to the White House has already compelled countries worldwide , from Canada to Qatar , to reassess their policies and change their direction . <p> US President Donald Trump meets with Qatar Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani at the White House in July 2019. ( credit : KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS ) <p> While both Biden and Trump have correctly given Israel 's defeat of Hezbollah credit for the downfall of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad 's brutal regime , there is no doubt that the rebels were also emboldened by the knowledge that America was back on a path toward rewarding its allies and punishing its enemies . <p> Even the feckless Palestinian Authority has finally taken steps to restore order and crack down on Hamas and other rebel groups in Jenin and other cities . The PA knows it will be held to a higher standard by Trump and that it better get on his good side before he comes back to power . <h> Israeli officials holding out for Trump 's second term ? <p> But , of course , no one understood how important it is to hold out for Trump better than Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . <p> As The Jerusalem Post 's military analyst Yonah Jeremy Bob pointed out , when Netanyahu 's National Security Advisor Tzachi Hanegbi said on May 29 that the war would need to continue another seven months , people did not understand what he meant . But now it is clear that Israel planned for a Trump victory all along . <p> That hope has already borne fruit , with the appointments of pro-Israel , clear-thinking nominees to the key cabinet posts where decisions impacting Israel will be made for the next four years . <p> Israeli officials have told me privately that they can not wait for Secretary of State Antony Blinken to be replaced by Marco Rubio . <p> With less than a month in office , Blinken is still making a fool of himself by talking seriously about the need to negotiate with the Iranian regime that he should be taking action to remove from power . He will be remembered as a shorter version of John Kerry , with no accomplishments but much damage . <p> By contrast , Rubio recently called Hamas " animals " and made clear that they are " 100% to blame " for everyone killed in Israel and in Gaza during this war . The moment he takes over , there will be maximum pressure on Hamas to surrender . <p> The arms embargoes of the Biden administration will be replaced by a Trump administration that will supply Israel with bunker-busting bombs and whatever else is needed to deter the enemies of the Jewish state . Trump 's nominee for defense secretary , Pete Hegseth , has said , " If you love America , you should love Israel . " He will back that up by providing Israel 's military requirements at this crucial time . <p> The Biden administration 's national security advisor , Jake Sullivan , told CNN on Sunday that he has briefed Trump 's advisers that Iran could decide to develop nuclear weapons if it is too weak . He warned the Trump team to be careful not to harm Iran too much . <p> " It 's no wonder that there are voices in Iran saying , ' Hey , maybe we need to go for a nuclear weapon right now , ' " Sullivan said after recounting recent setbacks to Iran and its proxies . <p> Thankfully , Sullivan 's successor , Congressman Mike Waltz , does not appear to be listening to that nonsense . In an interview with Ben Shapiro , he warned Iran that he would be watching the Islamic Republic 's every move very closely . He said Iran must stop provoking Israel and developing nuclear weapons . <p> Regarding Iran 's proxies , Waltz did not mince words . He said he would reverse Biden 's 2021 decision to remove the Houthis ' designation as a foreign terrorist organization and take immediate action against Hamas . <p> " There have never been enough consequences , " Waltz told Shapiro . " And that 's what we need to be talking about with these people . You take an American ; you illegally detain them ; if you 're a nation-state or if you 're a terrorist ... there is gon na be all hell to pay . There are gon na be nothing but consequences for you financially and maybe even a bullet in your damn forehead if you take an American , period . " <p> Biden has not bothered to send his Middle East envoy Brett McGurk to the region lately , but his successor , businessman Steve Witkoff , has already come and pressured the leaders of Qatar to do more to bring about the release of the hostages . <p> Why did n't Biden appoint a special presidential envoy for hostage affairs ? Trump has already done that in the well-respected Adam Boehler , whose appointment " gives us renewed hope , " Ruby Chen , father of hostage and American citizen Itay Chen , wrote in The Hill . <p> The majority leader in the Senate will thankfully no longer be Sen. Chuck Schumer , who has single-handedly prevented the passage of the much-needed Antisemitism Awareness Act , a piece of bipartisan legislation that passed the House by a 320-91 vote in May . His successor , Sen. John Thune , promised to sanction the International Criminal Court for pursuing warrants against Netanyahu and former defense minister Yoav Gallant . <p> Last but not least , I am excited about the appointment of my friend Mike Huckabee as the ambassador to Israel . Once he takes over , gone are the days of American envoys pressuring Israel to stop building in Jerusalem , Judea , and Samaria . <p> " There is no such thing as a West Bank , " the former governor of Arkansas said during a visit to Israel in January 2017 , adding : " There 's no such thing as a settlement -- they are communities , they 're neighborhoods , they 're cities . There 's no such thing as an occupation . " <p> The incoming Trump administration is not alien to the need to strengthen Israel in order to ensure a brighter future for America . If this is what it has already done before taking office , the sky is the limit for the next four years . <p> The writer is the chairman of the Religious Zionists of America , president of the Culture for Peace Institute , and a committee member of the Jewish Agency . He currently serves as a member of the US Holocaust Memorial Council , appointed by Donald Trump during the president-elect 's first term . The views expressed here are his own . You can reach him at Martinoliner@gmail.com.
