<p> When its best player left for a prep school in September , Lake Zurich had to adjust on the fly . <p> Multisport standout Connor Strauss was ready to pick up the slack after 6-8 Dartmouth recruit Anton Strelnikov transferred to La Lumiere in Indiana . <p> " For sure , once he left , everybody knew they had to step up , " Strauss said after the Bears held off Lyons 47-42 Friday in the second round of the Jack Tosh Holiday Classic at York . " And one of my ways to step up -- I knew I was going to be effective on the defensive end . That was one of my roles last year . <p> " But I knew I had to hunt for my shot more and look for offensive opportunities more than I had to last year . " <p> The 6-4 senior did that against Lyons , finishing with 14 points and three assists to go along with 11 rebounds . Adrian Riep scored a game-high 15 for the Bears ( 5-5 ) , while Kain Kretschmar added nine points and nine rebounds . <p> Lake Zurich plays St. Ignatius , a 67-55 winner over Minooka , in Saturday 's quarterfinals . <p> Bears coach Terry Coughlin said Strauss does a little bit of everything . <p> " He 's an animal , " Coughlin said . " He 's just everything you want . He 's a unanimous captain selection . ... He was not expecting to be this big of a focal point offensively . ... He 's an unbelievable defender , has been our best defender for a couple years . But his ability and stamina to be able to do both -- be a scorer for us , to rebound ... he 's in the high post making plays . " <p> Strauss also is a jumper and 400-meter runner in track , qualifying for state last spring in the triple jump . He 's still open to doing either basketball or track in college . <p> In the meantime , he 's working to help the Bears gain traction in one of the area 's deepest conferences , the North Suburban . Teams like Warren and Waukegan have made most of the headlines early , but Lake Zurich has quality wins over New Trier and Lemont , among others . <p> The Bears also lost five in a row earlier this month , but Strauss believes they 've turned the corner . <p> " I think our toughness has picked it up a lot , " he said . " And we started to make shots too , which obviously helps . But overall , it 's our toughness on the defensive end that has gotten us an opportunity to win a lot of games . And we 're gritty enough to get all these close ones . " <p> Lake Zurich never trailed against Lyons ( 5-6 ) , leading by as many as 12 in the first half after the Lions missed their first 11 shots . The Bears were up by as many as 10 midway through the third quarter . But the Lions tied it at 40 when Josh Gutierrez made one of two free throws with 2:46 left in the game . Kretschmar hit two free throws with 2:24 left to put Lake Zurich up to stay . <p> Gutierrez , one of the smallest players on the floor at 5-10 , had a double-double of 14 points and 11 rebounds off the bench to lead Lyons . Ian Polonowski added 10 points and five rebounds . <p> Like Lake Zurich , Lyons has some good wins on its resume ( Glenbard West . St. Laurence ) . But the Lions are still getting used to their roles . <p> " We have one player with any legit experience from last year : Ian Polonowski , " Lions coach Tom Sloan said . " So it 's been learning on the fly for 10 or 11 games now . There 's no experience like actual varsity game experience . The kids , now they understand what it takes to compete and win . " <p> One thing the Lions do have is size , with four starters 6-4 or taller : 6-4 Timmy Sloan , 6-5 Gavin Carolan , 6-6 Bobby Vespa and 6-7 Polonowski . <p> They also have a gritty playmaker in Gutierrez , a defensive back on the football team that went 11-1 . <p> " Josh is a super tough kid and he got it going really well today , " Tom Sloan said . " The defense that Lake Zurich was playing , heavy pressure -- he was able to get by his guy and get in the lane and either get something for himself or somebody else . He did a really nice job of handling the ball and making good decisions . " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza .
