<h> Israel shifts military focus to Houthis <p> Israel 's military carried out its latest round of airstrikes in Yemen in areas controlled by the Houthis on Thursday as it turned its attention to another Iranian proxy . <p> Israeli Air Force fighter jets conducted strikes on the Houthis infrastructure at Sana'a International Airport , the Hezyaz and Gas Kanatib power stations , and other military infrastructure in the Al Hudaydah , Salif , and Ras Kanatib ports on the west coast part of the country . <p> This was Israel 's fourth such aerial assault on the Houthis and the second one this month . A day earlier , the Houthis fired a ballistic missile that the Israeli military intercepted , which marked the fourth in less than a week , according to the Times of Israel . <p> " The Houthis will also learn what Hamas , Hezbollah , the Assad regime , and others have learned , and this will also take time , " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a speech on Wednesday . " This lesson will be learned across the Middle East , I tell you , in those days at this season . " <p> Last week , Israel carried out strikes on the Houthis ' ports , which a local television channel tied to the Houthis said killed nine people . <p> The Houthis have also conducted dozens of attacks on shipping vessels transiting the waterways off Yemen 's coasts , pushing shipping companies to avoid the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden . Houthi officials have said these attacks were in solidarity with Palestinians , though its attacks have affected ships completely unrelated to Israel or the United States . <p> They have also periodically fired missiles and drones at Israel , a handful of which were not intercepted by Israeli air defense systems and caused casualties . <p> Netanyahu and Defense Minister Israel Katz believe that strikes in Yemen may get them to stop its attacks , while Mossad leader David Barnea believes Israel should attack Iran to get the Houthi attacks to cease , according to Israeli news outlet YNet . <p> The U.S. and U.K. have also conducted airstrikes against the Houthis , though the strikes did not get the Houthis to stop its attacks on commercial shipping vessels . <p> Israel has taken on Iran 's Axis of Resistance in various ways over the last year after Hamas 's Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack that left roughly 1,200 people , and another 250 of whom were kidnapped and brought into Gaza . Over the last year , Israel has decimated Hamas and Hezbollah 's senior leadership and arsenal , the latter of which has already agreed to a ceasefire deal , while it has also demonstrated its ability to hit targets inside of Iran as well . <p> Israeli forces have invaded both Gaza and Lebanon in its wars against Hamas and Lebanon , which have resulted in the displacement of millions of people and the killing of tens of thousands of people , civilians and combatants . Israel 's military killed Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar and Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah earlier this fall . <p> Iran also supported the Assad regime in Syria , which collapsed earlier this month . Israel has since carried out airstrikes in Syria to ensure Assad 's weapons or infrastructure do n't fall into the wrong hands . <p> Iran also supports militias in Iraq , though they have infrequently attacked Israel over the last year , rather they have carried out about 200 attacks on U.S. forces in Iraq , Syria , and Jordan .
