<h> The courage of those young Soviet Jews who risked everything for their identity is a powerful example for Diaspora Jews today . <p> One of the most moving songs to emerge from the October 7 war , is a paean of praise to reservists sung by Hatikva 6 called " Superheroes . " <p> It tells the story of how ordinary people -- a grammar teacher , contractors , lawyers , bank managers , and others -- are thrust into extraordinary situations in the reserves . <p> The chorus captures this transformation : " Everyone looks normal , but we are a nation of superheroes , and within each of us is a hidden soldier ready to save the world . " <p> The war has brought out the superhero in many : people displaying unspeakable courage in battle , unfathomable grace in the face of devastating loss , and unimaginable devotion to the nation and its people . <p> Indeed , unsung heroes walk -- often quietly and unpretentiously -- among us . And not only heroes from the current war . A silhouette of Theodor Herzl , the founder of modern Zionism , is displayed near a flag of the state of Israel on a building in Jerusalem . ( credit : Yehoshua Halevi/Getty Images ) <h> A look into Eduard Kuznetsov <p> On Sunday , a forgotten hero from a different battle -- the battle to free Soviet Jewry -- passed away at the age of 85 : Eduard Kuznetsov . <p> He was one of 16 young , idealistic Jews -- and two non-Jews -- who in June 1970 plotted to hijack a small airplane and fly it from Leningrad to Sweden , and from there to Israel . The plan was doomed from the start , and the conspirators were arrested before even getting on the plane . <p> The ensuing Leningrad Trial became a turning point in the struggle of Soviet Jewry , drawing global attention and ensuring that the Jews of Silence , as Elie Wiesel famously termed Soviet Jewry , would be silent no more . <p> Kuznetsov was one of the planners and one of two of the 11 defendants -- the other being Mark Dymshits -- who were sentenced to death . World outrage led to the commutation of his sentence to 15 years in the Gulag , of which he served nine years before being released in a 1979 swap for two Soviet spies arrested in the US . Others involved in the hijacking plot who were sentenced to lengthy prison terms included his then-wife , Sylva Zalmanson , and Yosef Mendelevich . <p> Those names -- Kuznetsov , Zalmanson , Mendelevich -- became synonymous with the struggle for Soviet Jewry . Their faces appeared on posters around the world , and their names were worn on necklaces and bracelets by hundreds of thousands who protested and prayed for their release -- paralleling the situation today regarding the hostages being held in Gaza . <p> Kuznetsov , like other Prisoners of Zion and refusniks who fought and paid a heavy price for the right to emigrate , was a hero in the battle for Soviet Jewry . <p> And they won . The Soviet Union collapsed , and well over a million Russian-speaking immigrants settled in Israel , enriching the population beyond imagination in every field : science , medicine , the arts , and sports . Israel 's hi-tech revolution owes much of its success to the influx of Russian-trained engineers , mathematicians , and computer specialists who arrived in the 1990s . The Start-Up Nation would not have flourished as it did without them . <p> None of this would have been possible without people like Kuznetsov , who came here and lived their lives -- like so many heroes -- quietly and far from the public eye . For years , Kuznetsov worked as an editor and journalist in Israel 's vibrant Russian-language press . <p> The courage of those young Soviet Jews risking everything for their identity is not just history ; it is a powerful example for Diaspora Jews today about the value of Jewish identity and the nobility -- and even heroism -- of struggling to keep it . <p> The Soviet Union tried to strip its Jews of their religious identity and their connection to the land of Israel . <p> While there is no comparison between what the Soviet Jews endured and what Jews in the West are going through today , there are strong forces in the West seeking to strip Jews of their ties to Zionism and Israel . <p> The penalty for not doing so is not the Gulag , and those who feel pressured are not physically constrained from walking away . Instead , the penalty is subtler : being canceled , ostracized , or made to feel uncomfortable for holding such beliefs . Kuznetsov 's example -- and that of his peers -- was to resist these pressures , not to accept these dictates quietly but to fight back hard . <p> It 's a timely message , and -- given that today is the first day of Hanukkah -- also a seasonal one .
