<h> College MAP grants for Illinois inmates are a ' sound investment in public safety ' <h> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . <p> The Illinois Senate is considering legislation to restore the Monetary Award Program funding , or MAP grants , for incarcerated people . These grants help lower-income people attend college . <p> It is not just a matter of fairness . It 's a sound investment in public safety , economic stability and community well-being . Illinois has barred those incarcerated from accessing MAP funding since 1987 , a decision that limits their access to education and potential for rehabilitation . <p> The Quad City Business Journal recently reported on the success of David Staples , the first graduate of the Augustana Prison Education Program at the East Moline Correctional Center in Rock Island . The Emmy-nominated " Prison Behind Bars " documentary also explores numerous stories that challenge conventional views on incarceration and the transformative role of education . <p> According to the Rand Corp. , every dollar invested in prison education saves $4 to $5 in incarceration costs , addressing the hefty price Illinois pays for recidivism incidents , which average $152,000 each . <p> Restoring MAP funding would also address longstanding racial and economic inequities , disproportionately impacting Black , Brown and low-income communities . The Illinois Task Force for Higher Education in Prison is advocating for the restoration of MAP funding as a key component in expanding educational opportunities for incarcerated individuals . <p> Restoring MAP funding would create safer communities , reduce prison costs and empower individuals to reintegrate into society with the skills and knowledge to succeed . I 'm working closely with lawmakers in Springfield to ensure more people like Staples can take advantage of programs that would result in reduced recidivism , better employment prospects , cost savings and greater equity . Everyone stands to gain . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters , D-Chicago <p> SEND LETTERS TO : letters@suntimes.com . To be considered for publication , letters must include your full name , your neighborhood or hometown and a phone number for verification purposes . Letters should be a maximum of approximately 375 words . <h> Wall Street Journal takes Trump to task <p> As I read Mona Charen 's screed attacking The Wall Street Journal 's editorial page for having " succumbed to Trumpian populism " last week , I felt obliged to ask how often Ms. Charen actually reads the Journal 's editorial page . <p> On the very day Ms. Charen 's piece was published in the Sun-Times , the Journal 's lead editorial blasted President-elect Donald Trump for his ham-handed interference in the budget process , comparing him to hapless New York Jets owner Woody Johnson . This well-deserved attack on Mr. Trump is not at all out of the ordinary for The Wall Street Journal . <p> The Journal 's editorial page has regularly and consistently lambasted Mr. Trump for his foreign policy ; his industrial policy of which his bluff and bluster about tariffs is the most salient feature ; his stated desire to interfere with the Fed ; his selection of inexperienced and otherwise questionable individuals for cabinet positions ; his intensifying courting of labor bosses ; his general flightiness and inconsistency ; and a whole host of other policies and characteristics that make the Journal , and , indeed , any thinking conservative , apprehensive about Mr. Trump . <p> Trump loyalists are , understandably , not at all pleased with the Journal 's editorial page , attacking it as the herald of the neocons , the deep staters and RINOs ( Republican in name only ) who are intent on sabotaging Mr. Trump 's agenda . <p> Those of us who understand what it means to be a conservative , however , figure that if both Mr. Trump 's most ardent sycophants and the likes of Ms. Charen are attacking the Journal 's editorial page , it must be doing something right . <p> Mark M. Quinn , Naperville <h> Charrettes promote equity , respect <p> The Dec. 26 , letter to the editor , A charrette or a charade ? , misses the mark about a new community public forum procedure implemented by Alds . Angela Clay ( 46th ) and Matt Martin ( 47th ) during a recent community meeting to garner feedback on a land use plan for the Broadway corridor . <p> The public forum protocol was clearly developed to ensure everyone had input in community planning and development , including racially and economically minority residents who are often openly and publicly discriminated against in largely white communities . <p> On the Far Northwest Side , another largely white community , bigoted and intolerant comments about housing choice voucher holders , formerly known as " Section 8 , " and others who pay rent using various housing subsidies commonly occur during community meetings called to discuss planned developments -- without condemnation or consequences , leaving residents who rely on housing subsidies at risk for stigma , discrimination and traumatization . <p> Open public forums called to discuss community planning and development must include procedures to ensure residents who require affordable and subsidized housing are not publicly discriminated against during community meetings . And that their input is just as welcomed and valued as anyone else 's . <p> If that means smaller , more controllable , round table discussions and written comments on sticky notes , well , so be it . The open public discrimination of legally protected classes of people , during public forums in Chicago , must end . I hope all City Council members learn to conduct public forums using protocols that promote equity and respectfulness . <p> Monica Dillon , Norwood Park <h> Flag 's meaning has been distorted <p> As the new year beckons , I find myself contemplating one of the many controversies that shaped the political discourse of 2024 : the troubling debate surrounding the historic " Appeal to Heaven " flag that erupted over the summer when it was revealed Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito had flown it at his vacation home . <p> As someone who has long displayed this flag proudly in my own home , I am deeply unsettled by how distorted its meaning has become , and by the apparent desire of some groups to label the flag as an irredeemable symbol of extremism . <p> The " Appeal to Heaven " flag , with its pine tree and bold inscription , has its origins in the Revolutionary War , but the phrase itself comes from English philosopher and Enlightenment thinker John Locke , whose " Second Treatise on Government " argued that all people have the moral right , when civil power has become unjust or otherwise corrupt , to appeal to a higher authority . <p> Locke wrote , " Should either the executive or the legislative , when they have got the power in their hands , design , or go about to enslave or destroy them , the people have no other remedy in this , as in all other cases where they have no judge on earth , but to appeal to Heaven . " <p> This powerful idea so boldly stated resonated deeply with the devout colonists . It embodied their plea for divine justice in their struggle against British tyranny , as well as their burning desire for a new kind of government . <p> Unfortunately , extremists have in recent years attempted to co-opt the flag , aligning it with Christian nationalism and even the Jan. 6 insurrection . This is a hideous distortion , one that reduces the flag to a partisan emblem devoid of its original profound meaning as a call for justice and accountability . <p> It is my prayer this holiday season that Americans of all backgrounds and persuasions reclaim this symbol of resistance to tyranny . Let it remind us of the founders ' belief that no leader is above the people nor any government beyond accountability . <p> Symbols matter , and this one belongs to all of us . And it is one worth fighting for . <p> John C. Engle , Logan Square <h> U.S. must end bloodshed in Gaza <p> How utterly futile to bear witness to 450 days ( and counting ) of Israel 's senseless bombardment of Gaza 's unarmed population . With Gaza having been reduced to unsustainable conditions , a result of Israel 's intense and reckless bombardments , it seems unfathomable to citizens of conscience that western nations , including the United States , refuse to intervene to finally stop the genocide of a people . <p> Case in point : The few trucks that attempt to deliver food to a starving population are often attacked . Children , including amputees who lie in demolished hospitals , are deprived of being sent for critical treatment to the U.S. , the U.K. and EU member states . Ninety six percent of children in Gaza fear imminent death . <p> The list of atrocities continue unabated while too many in our population seem entirely deaf to Gaza 's ordeal . Instead , we need to muster our collective humanity to speak out to the Biden as well as the incoming Trump administration , clamoring for immediate cessation of money , bombs and weapons to Israel while its genocide rages on . <p> The U.S. must also intervene directly to assist the oppressed and beleaguered population with food , water , medicine , electricity and other necessities . It took us a while to intervene in World War II . We must intervene now . <p> Sid Sussman , Hallandale Beach , Florida <p> Not channeling JFK <p> On Jan. 20 , 1961 , John F. Kennedy , 35th president of the United States , made the following statement at his inaugural address to the nation " ... " Ask not what your country can do for you -- ask what you can do for your country , " <p> I see Donald Trump 's rhetoric to read ... " Ask not what your country can do for you -- let me show you what I can do your country , " His recent brazen attempt to raise the national debit ceiling is an example of this rhetoric ( as well as his cabinet appointments . ) His attempt , to raise the national debit limit , would have left the government as an open ATM , possibly using citizens ' money for the benefit of those already with millions of dollars already in their personal account . <p> Voters should now begin to realize that what Trump was grifting was not in the best interest of the American people , but for him his million dollar supporters . <p> John Prusko , Carol Stream <h> Mixed signals <p> Mayor Brandon Johnson wants to " signal his support for education and teachers " by maintaining his teacher status . The only signal I 'm reading is that he wants to increase his pension substantially . Could n't he just issue a news release stating , " I support education and teachers ? " Does n't every voter in Chicago know this already ? It might be less humiliating to taxpayers if they did n't have to eat such rancid baloney and listen to a so-called progressive sneak by with the old Chicago motto , " Where 's mine ? " <p> Ted Hild , Springfield <h> Seeking counsel <p> Perhaps if Mr. Trump is interested in reclaiming Greenland and the Panama Canal , he should contact his buddy Vladimir Putin to get a few pointers on how to execute an invasion ( excuse me , " special military operation " ) . I 'm sure he would get little resistance from the Greenland and Panama Canal armies . On second thought , Putin 's advice might not be the best . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year .
