<h> The THAAD system , deployed in Israel by the United States in October , was activated to intercept the missile for the first time , the Times of Israel reported . <p> The deployment of THAAD in Israel followed an October 1 ballistic missile attack by Iran . <p> New Delhi : <p> The American Terminal High Altitude Area Defense ( THAAD ) missile defence system was used to intercept a ballistic missile launched at Israel from Yemen yesterday . The missile was reportedly fired by the Houthi rebels , a group backed by Iran . <p> The THAAD system , deployed in Israel by the United States in October , was activated to intercept the missile for the first time , the Times of Israel reported . Footage circulated on social media showing the system launching an interceptor , accompanied by the voice of an American soldier exclaiming , " Eighteen years I 've been waiting for this . " <p> While the Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) confirmed the missile 's interception , they did not specify whether the system used was Israeli or American . However , security sources told the Walla news site that THAAD had successfully engaged the missile , the report said . <p> The deployment of THAAD in Israel followed an October 1 ballistic missile attack by Iran . The advanced system is capable of intercepting missiles both inside and outside the Earth 's atmosphere . <p> The THAAD system , developed by the United States , is designed to intercept short- , medium- , and intermediate-range ballistic missiles during their terminal phase . Unlike conventional systems , THAAD relies on kinetic energy to neutralise threats , destroying incoming missiles through impact rather than an explosive warhead . <p> A standard THAAD battery includes six truck-mounted launchers , each capable of holding up to eight interceptors , along with a radar and a fire control system . The system 's radar can detect threats from a range of 870 to 3,000 kilometres . <p> The Houthi missile launch marked the fifth such attack on Israel in just eight days . The Iran-backed group claimed to have targeted Ben Gurion Airport . In response , Israeli warplanes launched strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen , including the Hezyaz power plant and infrastructure at Sanaa International Airport . <p> The Houthis have launched more than 200 missiles and 170 drones at Israel over the past year , according to the IDF , however , the majority of these threats were intercepted or fell short of their targets . The group has also disrupted commercial shipping in the Red Sea , targeting over 100 merchant vessels and forcing carriers to reroute . <p> The Houthis have explicitly linked their actions to the ongoing conflict in Gaza , which erupted on October 7 , 2023 , following Palestinian group Hamas ' attack on Israel .
