<h> The top 10 religion stories of 2024 : What 's old is news again <p> The year 's news in religion was dominated by a war already in progress on Jan. 1 between Hamas and Israel . <p> Though not at root a religious war , as the months went by the conflict supercharged American-Jewish divisions over Israel , fractured some Jewish-Muslim alliances and made antisemitism on campus a rallying cry for the right . It also exposed , in the view of many who sympathized with the Palestinians , new depths of Islamophobia . <p> The top religion stories also reprised familiar themes of the 2016-2020 Trump administration as Donald Trump 's third presidential campaign returned him to the White House . We also saw the end of a three-year Vatican synod and the opening of a Hindu temple three decades in the making . <p> But if several of this year 's biggest stories were holdovers from previous years , there were , as ever , surprises nobody could have predicted . Here are the developments in faith , politics and culture that defined 2024 for us at Religion News Service : <h> 1 . Israel-Hamas war 's spiritual reckoning . <p> As Palestinian casualties in the war that began with Hamas ' murderous Oct. 7 , 2023 , raid on southern Israel passed 48,000 in Gaza , the fighting caused spiritual reckoning far from the combat . Many American Jews felt deeply that critiques of Israel 's actions on campus amounted to antisemitism . The war also gave voice to growing ranks of anti-Zionists on the left . By year 's end , campus protesters , some of whom had sought solace in Jewish sabbath and Christian Communion celebrations , had largely dispersed , while in Israel and the occupied territories , Jewish parents mourned children who died as hostages in Gaza . Muslims , Christians and some Jews lamented that the world remained indifferent to the Palestinian plight . <h> 2 . Trump returns . <p> Trump 's reelection braided so many narratives of politics and religion together it 's difficult to know where the strands begin or end . Historically Catholic and Democratic Latino voters showed their increasing evangelical Christian and Republican leanings at the ballot box ; white evangelicals , despite only muted coordination with Trump compared to 2016 , and looking past the GOP 's more moderate stance on abortion , overwhelmingly supported Trump in November ; Muslims , alienated by President Joe Biden 's backing of Israel in the Gaza war , went for Trump in larger numbers or voted for third-party candidates . <h> 3 . The Synod on Synodality stresses dialogue over doctrinal change . <p> Pope Francis ' 2021 call for Catholics around the world to gather to register their concerns and dreams for a future church -- a process called synodality -- raised hopes of a completion of Vatican II , in which women 's roles would be expanded , possibly even to ordination as deacons . By its end in October 2024 , controversial topics raised in the listening sessions had been relegated to special committees . The final report of the synod called for lay people to take a more active role in their dioceses . No reform suggested by the synod delegates required changes to doctrine or canon law . <p> The third-largest Hindu place of worship in the world opened in January in Ayodhya , in northern India , said to be the deity 's birthplace . The spectacular monument has inspired Hindus the world over , but , built on the site of a 16th-century mosque torn down by a Hindu mob in 1992 , it represents for many members of India 's minority Muslim faith a consummation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's Hindu nationalist program . In New York , a parade float carrying a model of the temple caused controversy in the run-up to August 's India Day parade . <h> 5 . United Methodist Church overturns its ban on openly LGBTQ+ clergy and same-sex marriage . <p> After years of wrangling over LGBTQ+ inclusion , the United Methodist Church , the second largest denomination in the U.S. , concluded its General Conference in June by repealing a 52-year-old declaration that the practice of homosexuality is " incompatible with Christian teaching " and canceling church laws banning ordination of gay people and marriage for same-sex couples . At the same time , the body voted to restructure the worldwide denomination to create new regions and tailor their own local customs and traditions and church rules . The discord within the church is not over , however , as overseas United Methodists continue to sort themselves -- with sometimes violent results . <h> 6 . States require teaching about Christianity in classrooms . <p> Ryan Walters , elected Oklahoma 's superintendent of schools in 2022 after running on a platform of fighting " woke ideology " in the state 's public school system , is facing lawsuits after requiring the Bible to be taught in schools " as an appropriate study of history , civilization , ethics , comparative religion . " He bought 500 copies of a Christian nationalist Bible promoted by President-elect Donald Trump . Walters further required schools to show a video in which he announced his new Department of Religious Freedom and Patriotism and in December mandated additional mentions of Christianity in the state 's social studies standards . <p> In Louisiana , a law passed in June required all schools receiving public funding to post a version of the Ten Commandments in their classrooms . In November , after a U.S. district court judge blocked execution of the law , Louisiana 's attorney general said the state would appeal . <h> 7 . A Catholic diocesan hermit approved by a Kentucky bishop comes out as transgender . <p> Brother Christian Matson , believed to be the first openly transgender person in his position in the Catholic Church , announced his status in May , offering his story as indicative of the often difficult path for trans Catholics . Matson , who had converted to Catholicism in 2010 , had long sought a way to fulfill a vocation in the church , and Bishop John Stowe of Lexington , noting that Matson was not seeking ordination , called the hermit 's spiritual journey " consistent with the calling of that particular vocation . " <p> Although Matson lives quietly in a small Appalachian town , his revelation struck a chord at a time when transgender Catholics have both been welcomed by Pope Francis and felt ostracized by the pope 's stated views on gender theory . <h> 8 . Declining churches look to repurpose their real estate . <p> As church attendance declines , thousands of barely surviving houses of worship are facing the question of what to do with their real estate and how to continue to serve their communities in new ways . Church closures have reached a point that congregants and pastors are seeking professional help , attending gatherings such as September 's Future of Church Property conference , organized by Princeton Theological Seminary , where real estate lawyers and nonprofit developers counsel attendees on strategies to meet local needs or tap new revenue . Other churches have turned to groups such as RootedGood , a nonprofit that works with churches on how to repurpose their spaces . <h> 9 . After devastating fire , Notre Dame reopens . <p> Defying those who said that Paris ' historic cathedral should reopen as a cultural center , not a church , Notre Dame opened its doors in December with a festive ceremony attended by world leaders , only barely missing what seemed like an impossible five-year timeline of rebuilding . A phoenix with flaming feathers was installed atop the spire in December , marking the cathedral 's rise from the ashes . <h> 10 . Archbishop of Canterbury resigns over handling of abuse . <p> His reputation tarnished by an investigation into the Church of England 's response to allegations of abuse by a prominent lay member , Justin Welby announced in November that he would step down as archbishop of Canterbury , traditionally " first among equals " of all the primates in the global Anglican Communion . He followed his resignation with a farewell speech in the House of Lords that only worsened his standing with the public . The scandal gave momentum to those calling for the United Kingdom 's bishops to no longer hold seats in the Lords , and calls for the church to give up some of its influence in the Communion .
