<h> I sat down with Mustafa Alian , an east Jerusalem dual national , for an in-depth talk on his life struggles with the confines of the conflict . <p> KALANDIYA CROSSING , the main point of entry into the Ramallah area from east Jerusalem . ( photo credit : Abbas Momani/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> I invited Mustafa Alian to my Jerusalem home on a cold November evening . His attire , like his calm smile and manner , reflected his easy-going nature . Being invited into a Jewish household did not seem to faze him . <p> We sat down in the living room , enjoying two steaming cups of mint tea , for an honest conversation between two Jerusalem residents -- one from west of the city , the other from the east . <h> Mustafa , it 's good to see you . How are you feeling tonight ? <p> I 'm feeling quite relaxed , to be honest . I 've never done this before , so I am a bit nervous , but it is the good kind of nervous -- the one you get before doing an important thing . <h> It is important , without a doubt . This is not a common occurrence in this city . It takes courage , and I thank you for having it . Let 's begin by hearing about yourself . Who is Mustafa Alian ? <p> I was born on the Israeli side of Beit Hanina , which is the expansion of the old Beit Hanina on the other side of the fence , in the West Bank . My town is a part of east Jerusalem , and so we are citizens of Israel and have easy access to the Begin Highway , which leads straight into the city . It only took me about 20 minutes to get here Jerusalem 's Baka neighborhood . <p> I have five siblings , which is pretty standard where I come from . I am 23 and finishing my bachelor 's degree in computer science at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem . AERIAL VIEW of Beit Hanina . The Begin Highway can be seen in the distance , separating the Israeli Beit Hanina from the older Palestinian one . ( credit : Courtesy Hagai Agmon-Snir ) <h> Are your parents originally from Beit Hanina ? <p> My mother was born and raised in the Ramallah area to a family of farmers . They were simple people who worked the land and sold its produce . They were loving and caring , always sacrificing for the sake of family . My mother followed in their footsteps , always caring for us , until today . <p> I remember visiting my mother 's parents as a child , passing through rigorous checkpoints that would last for many hours . During periods of escalation , we would , at times , be stuck in the West Bank , unable to return until the roads were cleared . <p> As I grew older , and with my grandparents ' passing , I stopped visiting my mother 's family in Ramallah altogether . It was just too overwhelming to make that difficult trip over the border and back , especially when you could be caught in the crossfire at any moment . <p> My father was born and raised in Jerusalem 's Old City to a family that originated from Hebron . They moved to Jerusalem during the British Mandate . His father was a troubled person and could not provide a stable livelihood for his family . The home was lower class , to say the least , and my father had to leave school and start working at the young age of 12 . <p> As the oldest , he bore the responsibility of being the father and provider of his household from a very early age . He decided to be this same strong provider for his own children so that we could focus on our future instead of our survival , like he had to . This was not a simple task . My father 's side is a family of 300 , and my household is the only one to have not dropped out of the educational system . That is only two percent . <p> I can not tell you where my parents met . But they got married and moved to Beit Hanina . My father was an Israeli citizen , which granted my mother a similar status . My mother would travel to the West Bank , studying architecture at Bir Zeit University north of Ramallah . Eventually , she had to drop out because of the First Intifada , which made traveling back and forth impossible . <p> The violence of the intifada was so bad that she sadly had a miscarriage as a result of the conditions on the roads and checkpoints . It was at that point that she chose the path of raising her family in Beit Hanina , leaving her past life and dreams in Ramallah behind . <h> I 'm sorry to hear she had to go through that . So , they settled in Beit Hanina and started a family . What was it like growing up there ? <p> My siblings and I would play in the streets with the other children . I was happy and carefree until the others started being hateful and spiteful , choosing power and popularity over decency and kindness . Being mean was considered cool . <p> The kids around me would be disrespectful and brazen . I wanted to distance myself from them . I found the computer provided a place where I could be comfortable and worry-free . <p> I was disconnected from my environment and utterly absorbed by the computer . English was everywhere , and I loved the challenge of understanding this unknown written word . <p> The world around me did not know English , so the computer was my only available teacher . I wanted to learn as much as was available . Creating a Facebook account was a real achievement for me . Interacting on the Internet gave me a thrill like no other . <p> I was enthralled by American pop culture . Every time I was asked in school about my dream , it was to move to New York and become a software engineer . This has been my dream since the fourth grade . " <h> How important was religion in your life ? <p> I grew up religious , even though my parents were not . The first time I saw my father pray was when I was 17 ! He turned to religion during that time . <p> School was the natural place to discover Islam . I had always believed in a greater power , and I had looked to Allah in search of that connection . In east Jerusalem , the atmosphere is one where Islam is constantly praised , and I was interested in discovering more of its greatness . <p> But puberty had changed me completely . I became disengaged from my Arabic environment and culture . I started questioning every previous belief of mine . I challenged every reality and every conception . In truth , it all stemmed from my connection with the World Wide Web . <p> When online , I was always surrounded by free and open individuals who did not scrutinize or judge me at all . I felt more comfortable with them than I did with my own community . I started seeing everyone around me as a collective that did not challenge any element of their lives . People would blindly follow the path laid out for them . No questions were ever asked . Free will was nowhere to be seen . <p> I could n't be like them . I noticed that religion was overbearing or misused for malicious purposes . Everything always stemmed from religion . Every bad thing that happened was justified by Allah and his teachings . People around me would twist their religious beliefs and practices based on their own preferences , often staining the beauty and kindness of faith for their own greed . I felt like it was just too controlling . It canceled individuality . <p> Over the next few months , I kept questioning my world and came up with the same conclusion . Islam , in its current form , was not for me . Islam had spiraled out of control , and I did not want to be a part of the storm . Religion was used as a justification for hatred , and I was sick of this hatred that had no end and no good purpose . <p> I left Islam as a young teenager . I hid my secularism from everyone , as it was simply not allowed . I would still uphold the five pillars of Islam publicly , but inside I was completely uninterested in Islam . Being forced to be a devout Muslim only distanced me more from that world . <p> However , Islam has many values concerning humanity and family . The traditions of Islam all revolve around being with family and sharing abundance with loved ones . There are many elements of Islam that I believe in and hope to keep for myself and my future family . <h> Please tell me more about your national identity ? <p> The recurring wars in Gaza made me hate the Jewish state . My entire Arab society and our Arabic news channels would show the worst scenes and stories from the war . I became afraid of the IDF and the Jewish people . <p> I was convinced that the evil Zionist entity was hell-bent on the destruction of the Arab way of life . Stories of the sinister occupying Israelis were everywhere . <p> The computer was a place where I could be exposed to all types of people from around the world . And I soon became quite close with a person online who was an Israeli Jew . I had always expected people to act upon national lines and definitions , but he did n't . <p> That was a real turning point for me , and I started seeing people for who they really are and not how they are categorized . Unfortunately , our interaction with Israeli officials is always negative . This negative interaction solidifies the anti-Israeli education and media we receive . <p> Leaving Islam and discovering the cosmopolitan world online opened up a plethora of questions and curiosities . Once you start questioning parts of your reality and personality , you then cultivate this compulsion to question everything . I started working at McDonald 's and met many Israelis who were good to me . This reality was in direct contradiction to what was taught to us as Arabs . <p> I kept seeing the Palestinian nationality movement as one that only strives to create animosity and strife with the Israelis instead of finding positive interaction and common ground for a viable solution . The Palestinian narrative views the settlements as a warning sign ; if they do not strengthen their own religious identity and defiance to the Israeli people , their entire reality will collapse . <p> You must understand that the Palestinians are afraid of losing their land , their culture , everything . They are afraid of disappearing from this world . This fear is the fuel that the Palestinian Authority uses to accelerate hate and antagonism among the Palestinian people toward Israelis . That was when I decided to abandon the Palestinian cause . It did not follow the values of goodness and humanity that I hold . I did not believe in this life of fear and hatred . <h> Was this your state of mind when starting your degree at the Hebrew University ? <p> It feels good to say these things out loud . Yes , I arrived at the university with this state of mind . I knew that I needed a good degree in order to fulfill my lifelong dream of making a living elsewhere , be it in New York or any other Western place , so I enrolled at the Hebrew University to study computer science . I was determined to envelop myself in the world of computers , which I cherished so dearly . <p> Learning was awful . I was the only Arab student to attend the lectures , since all of the others had stopped coming . We started with 40 Arabs out of 600 students ; now only 15 have remained . <p> We never communicated with the Israeli Jews , who were much older and in different stages of their lives compared to us younger Arab students . Quite frankly , none of us really wanted to engage with the Israelis . And so , we were n't really part of the university at all . There was no interaction at all ; just exams , assignments , and grades . <h> That sounds like a really rough start . Did things improve ? <p> After the first year , I became a teaching assistant and simultaneously interned at the university 's tech lab , which ultimately forced me to interact with Jewish Israelis . I finally managed to connect with them in real life . I started making new friends with Israelis , with whom I shared many common interests . <p> For the first time in my life , I had real unfiltered conversations with Israelis who were grateful to interact with an Arab , and that really moved me . I was inspired by this to do the same with other Israelis . <p> The other Arab students at school were extremely toxic regarding my new relationships . They did n't hold back their opinions and would constantly try to persuade me not to believe the Israelis , insisting that they are colonizers trying to wipe out my Arab culture and identity . <p> I chose to distance myself from some and hide my Israeli friendships from others who were closer to me . It was an extremely anxious period ; it became so intense that I had to stop going to the campus for a while . This double life was just too much for me to control . <p> Things are better now -- do n't look so worried ! My ability to connect with both cultures eventually fell into the daily routine on campus and everyone got used to it , which came as a huge relief for me . I even went to therapy for an entire year in an attempt to find the right medium for coping with reality . <p> I had this intrinsic feeling of not belonging anywhere . I would hide my identity from the world , and that created a sense of hopelessness and despair . I felt alone and unsure of who I was and what I stood for . Therapy made me more confident and even proud of my identity , regardless of religion and race . It taught me to accept myself for who I truly am . <h> What a mental journey you 've endured . What does the future have in store for you , now that you 've weathered the storm ? <p> The dream -- from all the way back in fourth grade -- is still there . A degree in computer science has made it more possible than ever before . <p> I am a Palestinian , and I am an Israeli . I 'm connected to both spheres . However , I am simply disconnected from most of these two nationalities , and that is why I want to live abroad . I want stability for myself and for my future family . I want them to be free to choose their own path . <p> I want them to live in a place that allows for questioning reality . I want them to live in a place where they can be whoever they want , for I could not . In Jerusalem , you are never free . There is no place for people like me in Jerusalem . <p> I considered heading north to Haifa , Nazareth , Acre , and other places . But after meeting many , many northern Arab students , I could not find anyone who felt both Israeli and Palestinian , living in true coexistence . They could not even consider the concept . In their eyes , one identity comes at the cost of the other . <h> But why not stay ? Why not be that person who blurs the lines between these two polar worlds ? <p> I 'm sorry , Yonatan , but this is not my fight . I do n't want to be a part of this conflict , and so I ca n't be a part of its solution . My views are too alienated from both societies . I could never live freely in Israel or the West Bank , as religion and family are the main factors that root the Arab communities to this land . <p> The same can also be said for most Jewish communities . I respect many of the values which are upheld by these indigenous lifestyles , but their versions of life are not ones that I share . <p> The search for national and social identity , coupled with their paramount importance in the daily lives of everyone occupying this land , is too dominant for me . <p> I do not share this life orientation , and I do not belong to the communities that do . <h> I 'm sad to hear that , Mustafa . I think you could have been an integral part of a real cultural revolution . <p> Perhaps you are right . But I still carry the profound belief that real peace in Jerusalem between the Arabs and the Jews is possible . It will take a generation or two , and we will no doubt require some strong leaders who share this vision , but every new generation will bring with it more Arabs and Jews equipped with the acknowledgment of the positive effects that come from the interactions between them . <p> The next Arab generation will be more embedded in Israeli society in every way . The next Jewish generation will be more aware of the Arab presence in this land . The key is to combine these two worlds and try to build a culture that includes the other side , all while maintaining their individual integrity as two separate identities . <p> By educating the next generation on the values of respect and equality between themselves and their neighbors , we can begin viewing each other as people of the world , as goodwill individuals , as true equals , and as human beings . <p> Due to the sensitive contents of this conversation , Mustafa Alian 's real identity has remained anonymous . The name provided here is an alias .
