<p> He was 22 , the first pick in the 1974 NBA draft , taken by the Portland Trail Blazers out of UCLA where he 'd been a two-time NCAA champion under legendary coach John Wooden . I was 25 , almost 26 , in my infancy as a contributor to Sports Illustrated . <p> Walton was the generational center who could change a pro franchise from an also-ran to a champion , back before tall men in the middle were cheapened by a 3-point shot that turned basketball into the long-distance shoot-a-thon it is today . <p> Me ? I was a nobody , eager to make it as a professional writer , not as an office guy , but as somebody who could be out there writing profiles , traveling to distant cities , seeking adventure , learning things , trying to make sense of the world . <p> When Walton died last May at 71 of cancer , he left a legacy of a man who strode his own path and simply did things , well , differently . He would become a two-time NBA champion with the Trail Blazers and then the Celtics , but our trails crossed that half-century ago when neither of us had any real certainty about what the future held . <p> Walton was n't playing due to bone spurs in his feet ( injuries that were " in his head , " critics liked to say ) . He was frighteningly skinny from a grains-and-nuts diet , had a beard , and wore his red hair in a ponytail . Back then , that look was unusual , trust me . He hated the gray and rainy Oregon winters , despised the selfishness he saw in the pro ranks , and even said he was thinking about quitting the NBA entirely and going back to California where the sun always shined . <p> He had a stutter , which could make him seem difficult , even surly , when one tried to communicate with him . And being 7 feet tall -- which he was , though he always said he was 6-foot-11 , because , as teammate Sidney Wicks told me , " He feels 7 feet is where being a freak starts ' ' -- made everything difficult . Still , we hit it off at the start . He told me about the music he liked ( he 'd been to his first Grateful Dead show in college ) and made it clear he was against Richard Nixon , foreign wars and imperialism . <p> We sat next to each other on an airplane ride from Los Angeles to Portland -- this was 50 years ago , and at the time NBA teams flew on commercial jets . A lady behind Walton complained that his seat was too far reclined , apparently unaware that his knees were already up near his head . He said something rude to her and got up and found another seat . For the rest of my assignment , I felt he pouted , or stayed angry . <p> To me , he seemed near some kind of breakdown , and it was hard not to side with those basketball people who said he was spoiled and immature and did n't know how to play through adversity . There had n't been much adversity at UCLA where he was named national college player of the year three times , and his varsity teams had gone 86-4 , including 73 wins in a row . <p> I had been flown to the Sports Illustrated offices in New York City before the assignment , so editors could talk to me . I was , I think , the youngest writer on the masthead , and I remember editor Jerry Tax saying the magazine was hopeful I , the young dude who had played a sport in college , would be able to get through to Walton , who very much did n't like the press . <p> We did get along at first . He showed me a magazine article by Isaac Asimov on solar energy in which the author discussed America 's arrogance in non-use of the largest , free energy source on the planet . This proved , Walton explained to me , that the government was more interested in profit than people 's welfare . Walton was vehemently against the war in Vietnam , racism and " the establishment , " and he told me the two philosophers most in line with his thinking were Bob Dylan and singer Joe McDonald of Country Joe &amp; the Fish . <p> But his teammates did n't like him too much . He was a newcomer , an idealist , a rigid one who believed things should be done the proper way . Right now . An 82-game schedule with cross-country travel and exhaustion built in was something he 'd never experienced . The physical reality of the NBA would take its toll . Idealism might get sanded off fast . Walton , at this point , had no idea about any of that . He wanted things , it seemed to me , he did n't deserve yet , things he needed to earn . Like teamwork , respect , a leadership role . I do n't know , maybe he just needed to grow up . That was a funny thought coming from a twentysomething like me . <p> I was a pickup basketball-playing nut , a gym ball rat , and I would have loved to have traded places with him , to get a sniff of the magical NBA , to get showered with cash like him , to simply play a wonderful game . Maybe , in some silly way , I was jealous of him . For the first time I pondered deeply what it must be like to go through life never blending in . If you were n't a red-haired giant with a speech impediment and damaged feet , making tons of money , yet depressed and aloof , how could anybody really understand you ? I only wrote about Walton again because of his death . I had n't written about him in the 50 years since that 1974 visit to Portland . I 'm still pretty sure I did n't understand him . I 'm not sure I totally understand myself . <p> I tried to write a nice eulogy in my Sun-Times column last spring for the man who was a transcendent but wounded athlete . He had his flaws when I met him , but I certainly had my own . And if I was harsh in my appraisal of him back then , I apologize . I was almost 26 , he was 22 , and both of us were trying to make sense of the world . <p> Rick Telander , shown in 1970 , played football at Northwestern University . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza . <p> A decade ago , a Cook County judge who dismissed a lawsuit by former Northwestern professor Peter Ludlow confirmed that " rape " and " sexual assault " -- what he was technically accused of -- are interchangeable in common usage . <p> Last week , President Joe Biden commuted the sentences of 37 of the 40 prisoners on federal death row . More than 2,000 others remain on death row in 27 states . Illinois abolished the death penalty more than a decade ago .
