<h> 9 unforgettable moments that made TV great in 2024 <p> Melanie McFarland <p> Fri , December 27 , 2024 at 6:30 PM UTC <p> 10 min read <p> The Penguin Macall Polay/HBO <p> You already have your own list of best TV shows , and who am I to disagree ? Any show that makes your mood a little lighter or moves you in some extraordinary way fits that designation . But traditions must be attended to , including our annual " best of " round-ups . <p> Regardless of the TV industry 's contraction , there are still too many outstanding shows for one person to keep up with , let alone capture in a single list . That 's one reason every year-end list of best series has its omissions ; nobody can watch everything . <p> There are all kinds of " Best TV Series of 2024 " lists , though , led by certain award magnets . FX 's " Shogun " is an all-around masterpiece . <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> " Ripley " and " Baby Reindeer " are among Netflix 's top must-sees . Apple TV+ continues to draw audiences with shows like " Disclaimer " ( a favorite of my colleague Coleman Spilde ) , " Slow Horses " and the delightful " Loot . " HBO 's " True Detective : Night Country " is the deftest revival of a dead franchise I 've seen in a long time , and " Dune : Prophecy " is an elegant extension of a cinematic phenomenon . And if you have n't seen the " Matlock " update on CBS , you really should . <p> The greatness of any work boils down to moments , scenes and details , and there are too many good ones for any list to be complete . But here are nine that keep bubbling to the surface of my memory that reaffirm what makes their season 's must-sees . <p> Supernatural evil is a recurring feature in " Fargo , " the kind whose agenda is separate from the squabbles of petty men and women . In Season 5 Sam Spruell 's Ole Munch took on that role , a timeless " sin eater " hired to hunt Dot Lyon ( Juno Temple ) . Dot scars Munch , and gets rid of Munch 's " client , " but he ca n't be done with her : " A debt must be paid , " he growls in front of Dot 's daughter and gentle husband . Where others would respond with fear and violence , Dot invites him to help her make biscuits to go with their chili . Watching a confused Munch pitch in to help instead of murdering them all is strange at first , then heartwarming as he realizes this sweet , lovely family only wants to make him feel welcome . Munch tells the long story of his deathless existence , a sentence he 's living out because he believes forgiveness is impossible . But when Dot tells Munch the cure for all his sorrow and guilt is " to eat something made with love and joy , and be forgiven , " while handing him a warm biscuit sweetened with honey , the slow smile that spreads across Spruell 's face as he tastes the first bite becomes a bright beacon of hope . <p> Deborah Vance ( Jean Smart ) spent her career accepting that it 's a man 's world and plotting her navigation accordingly . Working with prot ? g ? Ava ( Hannah Einbinder ) helped her achieve new career heights by breaking free of those lowered expectations . But long-held views do n't die easily . When the old ( and I mean old ) boys ' club that once excluded invites her over for a very exclusive poker party they pair with their colonoscopy prep , she eagerly accepts even though she 's already suffered through her annual blowout . The gross bowel breaks and misogyny , she can stomach . But to her surprise , their retrograde views on queerness are a bridge too far . Instead of simply removing herself from offensive company , she leaves the guys in a messy bind by stealing every roll of TP in the joint -- a truly legendary move . <p> Every adult holds on to clothes that remind them of past glories . That 's why rifling through an older relative 's clothing is a common ritual -- part archaeological dig , part playtime experiment . In " The Penguin " Cristin Milioti 's Sofia Falcone marks her transition from the dutiful mobster 's demure daughter to a siren afire with vengeance . That 's announced when she arrives at a family dinner with traitorous relatives wearing a flaming yellow gown with a plunging neckline . After she wipes all of them out , she digs through her mother 's closet and lands on a fabulous ' 80s fur with her mother 's maiden name , Isabella Gigante , sewn inside . That 's what she wears to a gathering of the remaining Falcone forces to announce her takeover , punctuated by executing the remaining male relative standing in her way . " Few spoke of her after she died because she was a force greater than the Falcones could handle , " Sofia tells the men . Milioti 's superb performance makes Sofia a force , and " The Penguin " one of the year 's best shows as well . But it 's the way she wears her mother 's armor that shakes up these scenes . It is n't about Mother 's fashion . It 's about her power . <h> 04 " Diarra From Detroit " : " The One That Got Away " ( BET+ ) <p> The Moment : Pancakes with Danger . <p> Teacher-turned-citizen detective Diarra Brickland may be a goner for a guy who ghosts her after a one-night stand . Still , when she 's traumatized by a shooting , the only one who understands what she needs is Danger ( Jon Chaffin ) , her neighbor and the childhood friend who rekindles their old friendship by nearly robbing her . Without saying a word Danger makes Diarra silver dollar pancakes and counsels her on how to find her " safe space " by meditating . Danger robs people , it 's true . He 's also experienced his share of trauma and knows how to validate hers . Diarra Kilpatrick 's whip-smart , heartfelt mystery overflows with great dialogue and unpredictable turns , but that simple gesture lets us know in her love letter to Detroit that nobody should ever be written off . When we do , we risk missing the sweetness underneath someone 's tough crust . <p> Abbott Elementary <h> 05 " Abbott Elementary " : " Ringworm " ( ABC ) <p> The Moment : The best parental note of all time <p> No line is wasted in Quinta Brunson 's comedy , especially in the hands of one of TV 's finest ensemble casts and the child actors they work with . That makes it tough to land on a single scene or moment that stands out -- except , maybe , for the writers ' imagined version of how a note from a neighborhood parent might read . Some folks are just natural poets , as we know . One of them is the mother of Brandon , a kid with ringworm , whose mom who does n't view that as enough of an excuse to interrupt her day . The funniest part is that writers tasked Chris Perfetti 's nerdy Jacob Hill with reading it aloud . Even though he 's reading it in his voice , we can hear Brandon 's mother 's : " ' Dear Mr. Hill , I know that 's wrong . According to the district 's website , my child does n't have to be sent home until the end of the day . I 'm not the one , or the two , so please send my child home at three . Try Jesus , do n't try me . Patricia . ' " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Then Jacob asks , " Is this a riddle ? " " <p> The Traitors <h> 06 " The Traitors " : " Murder in Plain Sight " / " The Funeral " ( Peacock ) <p> The Moment : " Oh my lord , sweet baby Jesus , not Ekin-Su ! " <p> A strong argument can be made that every new outfit Alan Cumming arrived in each day of the reality competition was a moment . We expect the Scottish diva to come correct , especially as the devious host of a murder mystery game . But former Bravo housewife and " Married to Medicine " star Phaedra Parks ' stellar gameplay and the way she relished being a secret villain was a delicious surprise -- a never-ending moment and a Beyonce-style mood rolled into one flawlessly polished package . Parks would murder then traipse casually into breakfast , inquiring about the availability of eggs or salmon . She 's a reality genre genius . But she also fueled a meme with her reaction to house favorite Ekin-Su C ? lc ? loglu ( of the U.K. edition of " Love Island " ) being poisoned out of convenience by a fellow traitor , " Survivor " villainess Parvati Shallow . Parks rears back in horror , theatrically blinks her miles-long false eyelashes , fans herself and petitions God as if she 's just heard that a relative was struck down by lightning . Then she gets over it in time to kill and kill again . Topping that casting is going to be tough in Season 3 , which debuts Jan. 9 . <p> Grotesquerie <h> 07 " Grotesquerie " : " The Stinging Aroma of Sulfur " ( FX ) <p> The Moment : " No take-backs " <p> Advertisement <p> Advertisement <p> Many of us who watched grisly Ryan Murphy 's head trip from start to finish are still trying to figure out what it 's trying to say . But its clearest exchange is the relationship between Niecy Nash-Betts ' Det . Lois Tryon and Lesley Manville 's Redd , the woman Lois ' husband Marshall ( Courtney B. Vance ) is cheating with . After Lois wakes up from a coma ( a long story that lasts half a season ) she decides to divorce Marshall and start over in Tarpon Springs , a Florida beachside community . But in an entirely relatable twist , Redd does n't want him either . " It was fine when he was yours . You know , I got him part-time . I could be my own person ! . . . But now , he 's just . . . there . " Incredibly , Manville 's speech was written by either Murphy or his co-creators Jon Robin Baitz and Joe Baken . Yes , a man captured the way independent women prize their freedom more than having to deal with a man that 's always there " molting , " as Lois puts it . Their dialogue captures the essence of why women would choose to remain alone instead of dating . " Why do women think they need men , " Redd sighs , " when all they need is Tarpon Springs ? <h> 08 " Pachinko " : " Chapter Thirteen " <p> The Moment : A countdown to destruction <p> Season 2 of Apple TV+ 's powerful adaptation of Min Jin Lee 's masterpiece jumps between Sunja Baek 's life in 1945 ( Minha Kim ) and the one she lives as a grandmother in 1989 ( Yuh-jung Youn ) . During World War II Sunja and her sister-in-law Kyunghee ( Eunchae Jung ) take refuge in the countryside and solace in knowing Kyunghee 's husband Yoseb ( Junwoo Han ) has a well-paying job in a Nagasaki munitions factory . The moment we find that out , an ominous weight descends on us . But it 's the methodical march of dates within the first 13 minutes of this installment , rendered in black and white , that steep us in the tension of factory life in the days leading up to the moment the Americans dropped a nuclear bomb onto the city that wiped out tens of thousands . With that horror Sunja and Kyunghee join the countless families displaced by war contending with yet another weight , determined to keep surviving the tragic odds no matter what . <p> We Are Lady Parts <h> 09 " We Are Lady Parts " : " Funny Muslim Song " <p> The Moment : " It 's like death and the maiden , dancing with my corporation/I wo n't mention the w -- " <p> The second season of Nida Manzoor 's comedic masterpiece about an all-female Muslim punk band is a ride of emotional highlights and jaunty fast-n-loud ditties . The namesake band has gained acclaim , a passionate fanbase and a record label 's attention . But mainstream exposure always has a price , and in one particularly angry , desperate scene its frontwoman Saira ( Sarah Kameela ) , furious at being censored , tries to write a song on her own terms . An invisible force silences her , growing more violent as struggles ; each she tries to sing out the lyric " I wo n't mention the war " the offending word is muffled by feedback until she 's knocked off her feet . Manzoor wrote the episode long before the catastrophe in Gaza began but , as she pointed out in an interview , " Unfortunately , Muslim suffering is n't anything new . "
