<p> Five journalists were killed in an Israeli strike in Gaza on Thursday , according to the news outlet that employed them and local officials . It 's the latest report of slain journalists in the besieged enclave as life-threatening conditions in the area continue to hamper wartime reporting efforts . <p> The media office of Gaza 's Hamas-run government said the journalists worked at Al Quds Today TV , a local news channel , The New York Times reported . Al Quds Today is affiliated with the Islamic Jihad , according to the Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) , though it 's unclear whether the journalists subscribed to such ideology and were members of the jihadist group . <p> Al Quds Today named the five men and attached photos of them in a post on social media that show some of them wearing " Press " vests . Quds News Network also posted a photo on X of what it reported was the vehicle targeted in the airstrike . The white vehicle pictured was marked with the word " PRESS " in red . <p> The Israeli military disputed claims that the men were journalists , saying it " conducted a precise strike on a vehicle with an Islamic Jihad terrorist cell inside in the area of Nuseirat . " According to The Washington Post , the Israeli Defense Forces did not publicly provide evidence for its allegations and cited intelligence from " multiple sources " that allegedlyindicated the men belonged to the Islamic Jihad group . <p> IDF spokesperson Nadav Shoshani wrote on X that claims that the military targeted journalists are " fake . " <p> For the past 14 months , journalists in Gaza , alongside approximately 2 million other civilians who are trapped in the area , have been under relentless attacks from Israel while living under what human rights groups have called inhumane conditions . <p> Although media workers are protected by international humanitarian law , journalists in Gaza face especially high risks as they cover the war . Between Oct. 7 , 2023 , and Dec. 20 , 2024 , at least 141 members of the media -- including 133 Palestinians , six Lebanese and two Israelis -- have been killed , accordingto the CPJ , making it the deadliest period for journalists in more than 30 years . Several dozen journalists in Gaza have also been arrested and reported missing , and their family members threatened and killed , according to the organization .
