<h> 2024 Portland Press Herald Photos of the Year <p> The photographer and essayist Robert Adams wrote that " the job of the photographer is not to record indisputable fact but to try to be coherent about intuition and hope . " The best images captured by Portland Press Herald photographers this year do just that . They are truthful , yet manage to convince us of life 's beauty . There is the soaring delight of a young couple swinging in a snowscape by Derek Davis , or the almost holy light falling on a woman searching for rats under a bridge by Greg Rec . A sublime beauty transcends its subject matter in Shawn Ouellette 's photo of a surfer alone , looking out into an endless sea and sky . Ben McCanna 's photo of hazmat-clad firefighters at a training exercise combines wit with a freshness of vision . And Brianna Soukup 's graceful images of families dealing with tragedy show the love that binds them , and us , together . Here are the photos from 2024 that left an impression on us . <p> Posted 8:00 AM <p> Share <p> SCROLL <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Children play a piano at Pumpkin Valley Farm during the farm 's two-day sunflower festival . <p> This was a very fun assignment . I had n't visited a sunflower farm before , so I was in awe when I arrived and began wandering through the maze in the fields . There were stands you could climb to get above the sunflowers and take images looking down , and there were people dressed in sunflower-themed outfits . I also made images from low angles and used a telephoto lens to emphasize the detail of the flowers . I came away with many good photographs , but perhaps the best was this one of two young children playing a piano to an audience of yellow Helianthus heads . <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Maine State Police escort the body of Gov . Joseph Brennan , who died April 6 at the age of 89 , into the State of Maine Room at Portland City Hall before a public viewing . <p> I never met the Portland native who served as the state 's 70th governor from 1979 to 1987 , but the enormous impact he had on the state of Maine was apparent . I had also never covered a funeral service at City Hall . I knew I could not go inside , and my only opportunity to make a picture would be when the Maine State Police carried in the casket . While looking for a good position to capture the moment , I noticed how the shadow of the building created a wedge of sunlight that they would possibly walk through . I climbed up onto one of the pillars at the top of the stairs , and luckily for me , the procession went directly to the corner of sunlight , framing the scene almost perfectly . <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Dianuaku Paulo Bengui , 29 , and Ezequias Kassinda Monteiro Zavarias , 30 , who were both born in Angola , are married by officiant Katarina Reynolds at Portland City Hall on Aug. 30 . <p> This was a dream assignment . Who knew that City Hall weddings were becoming so popular ? Some of the weddings include a small ceremony in the State of Maine Room for an extra cost , but the majority happen right at the counter in the clerk 's office . On this particular day , a group of friends and family gathered in the small space while an interpreter translated from Portuguese to English , and vice versa . After the exchange of rings , the officiant pronounced the bride and groom married , and the witnesses drew close to snap photos and record video on their phones . I had to use a time-tested technique often referred to as a " Hail Mary , " raising my camera high above my head without being able to see through the viewfinder and hoping for the best . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> Megan Jones of Portland swings with her partner at the Eastern Promenade as heavy snow falls on March 23 . <p> Normally in Maine , people are pretty much done with winter by the end of March . Last year , however , the Portland area did not get as much snow as usual , and as this March 23 storm dropped large white flakes , people seemed to welcome it . I found this pair on the Eastern Promenade swinging away in silence , seemingly immersed in the morning tranquility brought by the storm . It was an unexpected and happy find to stumble upon , and I quickly positioned myself to capture the scene , focusing on the woman whose form -- with legs outstretched -- and colorful attire added to the moment . <h> Photo by Derek Davis <p> A woman is arrested while protesting the war in Gaza outside of Bath Iron Works , where a christening was taking place for the shipyard 's 41st guided missile destroyer , USS Patrick Gallagher . <p> We deliberated over whether I should go inside the shipyard to get photos of the ship 's christening , which would n't have allowed me to cover much of the demonstration outside . The decision was made to stay outside of BIW , and it turned out to be the right choice . Nine people were arrested by Bath police and Sagadahoc County deputies . The juxtaposition of officers surrounding the woman and the protester 's facial expression make this image impactful . I used a wide-angle lens and got as close to the group as possible . <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> Hazmat suit-clad firefighters from Portland , South Portland and York County descend a grassy hill at Southern Maine Community College on June 6 en route to a training exercise that simulated a response to a chemical or biological attack . <p> My favorite photographic situations can be summed up in a single sentence : You do n't see that every day . I respect photographers who specialize in one area -- portraits , sports , landscapes or weddings -- but I think I would grow restless without the randomness of shooting general news . On this day , as teams of first responders were assembling at SMCC for a training exercise , I roamed the area with my cameras to get a sense of what they might do and where . When I spotted a group of firefighters in hazmat suits and realized they were about to walk single-file down a path through a grassy hill , I sprinted into position , hoping for the best . Lucky for me , the elements aligned with a clean background and resulted in something I 've never seen before . This is the kind of image that puts gas in my tank . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> Pigeons fly over Simon Smith as he plays the euphonium in Congress Square Park in Portland on April 17 . Smith , a part-time music teacher at schools in Westbrook and Scarborough , said he was busking because it was vacation week and the students were home . <p> In this job , we 're tasked with photographing the most serious subjects , from courthouse dramas to disasters , but I 'd like to think the stresses and trauma from that coverage has n't diminished my sense of humor or wonder for everyday joy . On this day , I was asked to find a standalone photo to run as a centerpiece for the next day 's Local section of our print edition . I had about 30 minutes before the end of my shift and decided to try my luck in downtown Portland . When I spotted Simon Smith playing an instrument I 'd never heard before , with pigeons swirling about , I knew I had a chance of making something fun . My boss , retiring photo editor Michele McDonald , likes to say the pigeons look like musical notes blasting free from Smith 's euphonium . Pure whimsy . <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> North Yarmouth Academy second graders Rhea Marotta , left , and William Cashman react as a passing vehicle complies with their classmates ' chants of " Honk if You Love Julia , " in support of NYA alum Julia Gagnon , who was a contestant on American Idol . The group stayed until they received 200 honks from passing motorists on Main Street beneath the U.S. Route 1 bridge in Yarmouth on April 30 . <p> Newspaper photographers are sometimes exposed to hazards . When it snows , we drive into the storm . When it floods , we wade into the waters . And , when there 's a loud ruckus , we are there . This event , meant to drum up support for Julia Gagnon 's American Idol bid , was among the most ear-splittingly loud assignments I 've ever encountered -- and I 've shot volleyball championships . More than a dozen grade-schoolers lined up under a bridge and shrieked their admiration for the singer , and shrieked louder whenever passing cars honked their approval . This cacophony was worsened by concrete abutments on either side that reverberated the sound waves . Suffice to say the decibel levels were well above a safe threshold . After making a few images from across the street , I decided to move closer to the source of the sound to capture the emotion at the heart of the commotion . Rhea Marotta and William Cashman delivered . <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> The sun sets over Little Diamond Island as Abel Kraft , 10 , left , plays independently while his father Reed Kraft , of Peaks Island , completes the final steps of hauling out his powerboat at the public ramp on Centennial Street on June 9 . The Krafts , and other members of the family , spent the afternoon boating on Casco Bay , which included flying kites off the stern . <p> My two favorite hobbies are incredibly compatible : photography and long walks on Peaks Island , where I live . Nothing is more enjoyable than taking a 4-mile stroll around the island 's perimeter -- tides willing -- and simply photographing whatever strikes me . Along the way , I 'll post the photos as Instagram stories . Sometimes the posts are portraits of my wife posing dramatically in a shaft of light . Sometimes they 're action shots of my dog running crazy-eights in the sand . But often I 'm simply reacting to beauty in any of its forms , without prompts from a news assignment . It 's freeform bliss . And the stakes are low , which is good because not all photos are zingers . But on this night , the sky was captivating and the scene stopped us in our tracks . It helped that the Krafts are acquaintances and did n't mind us gawking as Reed performed a daunting series of chores to free his boat from the mud of low tide and drive onto dry land while racing against a setting sun . The image was striking enough to endure beyond the ephemera of an Instagram story and eventually landed on the front page of the Press Herald . If only they all could occur so easily . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Ben McCanna <p> Bruce Unangst chews on a sensory toy as he leads Kylee Howard , his former behavioral health professional , through a bounce house at Ricker Hill Orchards in Turner on Sept. 22 . Bruce 's mother , Sue Unangst , has been caring for her son , who is severely autistic , by herself since Howard left the profession . <p> Photographers rely on the kindness , openness and trust of others . I met Bruce Unangst and his mother , Sue , about a week before this photo was taken . Reporter Eric Russell and I went to the Unangsts ' home in Winthrop to learn more about their plight . Bruce has autism spectrum disorder . He is nonverbal and needs help to eat , bathe and use the bathroom . Occasionally , he is aggressive toward himself and , during those episodes , wears protective gear . The visit was brief and the photographs lacked the intimacy that often occurs after the novelty of the camera wears off . During the visit , Sue mentioned that her family and some friends were planning an annual trip to Ricker Hill Orchards in Turner . " It 's one of the few traditions we 've been able to maintain , " she said . My upbringing told me I should n't interfere with their tradition . I should just let them enjoy their rare time together without being shadowed by a bulky paparazzo . But I also figured it could n't hurt to ask . To my delight , Sue welcomed the idea . I met the group at the orchard early on a Sunday and did my best to be unobtrusive and simply let them be themselves together . And it worked . The group settled into their activities , and Bruce was able to roam the grounds with fewer interventions . After some coaxing from Sue and Kylee Howard -- his former behavioral health professional -- Bruce entered a bounce house . And , for a few minutes , under a dramatic sky , a smile crept across his face as he engaged his surroundings . I felt blessed to be there to see it . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Maria Griffin leans over to kiss her boyfriend , Harry Stuart , at Bubba 's Sulky Lounge in Portland on July 12 . The two met on the dance floor of the bar several years ago . " I would n't give him the time of day for two years , " Griffin said with a laugh . " But then he won my heart . " <p> I always wanted to take photos at Bubba 's . I remember walking in there for the first time -- I instantly thought : " I must know the backstory of this place . " Eventually , I got the chance not only to take photos but to meet " Bubba " himself . The lighting , which creates a great vibe for patrons , made it pretty difficult for photos . Grace Benninghoff , the reporter , and I decided to get there early , before the bar was packed . Maria and Harry were two of the Friday night regulars we met . I caught this moment of her leaning over to give him a kiss after I had a brief conversation with them . I stopped back later that night to talk to them some more . That is when I found out they met at Bubba 's and fell in love a few years later . This moment between them felt like a perfect encapsulation of their relationship with this place . I 'm sure they are far from the only people who have found some kind of love on that light-up dance floor . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Emma Pidden waits for her bus on Congress Street in Portland on April 4 . Pidden said she decided to take the bus into her office because she was worried about losing WiFi at home . <p> Photographing the first few big snowstorms of the year is usually fun , but by about March I 'm ready to be able to feel my fingers press the shutter button again . That being said , this was a rare late-in-the-season snowstorm I enjoyed . I had just submitted my first batch of photos for the day and decided I 'd keep driving around for a bit before I went to grab a cup of coffee and warm up . I saw Emma and immediately pulled my car to the side of the road and hopped out . I loved that she was the only person out there just powering through , wearing googles . It turned out to be a funny " springtime " in Maine photo . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Farhana Ahmed has her photo taken by family members outside of Merrill Auditorium after Portland Adult Education 's graduation on June 27 . Ahmed came with her family to Maine from Bangladesh in 2023 . <p> I 've covered my fair share of graduations , but this year 's Portland Adult Education ceremony had to be my favorite . It was just so joyous . I often enjoy photographing behind-the-scenes or in-between action more than an actual event itself . That is where you find the less obvious moments . Amid a sea of people hugging and greeting their families outside of Merill Auditorium , I saw Farhana standing in the beautiful light and made my way over to her . I took closer photos of just her , but I ended up liking my first , wide photos better because they included her family working hard to get a perfect gradation photo for her . It just seemed really sweet to me . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> I was n't going to go to the Portland Veteran 's Day parade because there was another photographer covering the bigger parade in Biddeford and Saco , but I decided to pop down there quickly just to see if there was anything visually interesting . I got there right at the start , and it was pretty standard parade fare . I had been there only about 2 minutes when I spotted Norman Millette standing in the doorway of his shop . I waited for a break in the procession and crossed the street . I took a few photos then headed over to talk to him . I really like this photo because it feels timeless . Norman said he has been standing in that same doorway watching the parade for six decades . It makes me wonder how many other photographers may have taken a similar photo of him . <h> Photo by Brianna Soukup <p> Pat Moody , center , embraces his daughter Hayleigh Moody , 21 , left , and his wife , Sherry Moody , right , during a ceremony dedicating Windham 's new basketball courts in his name on Nov. 3 . Over 1,000 people attended the event honoring Moody , a Windham resident with terminal cancer who has been a long-time supporter of youth sports , especially basketball . <p> I got a quick moment to thank Pat Moody and his family for letting us be at this event , and told him then that I had just witnessed one of the most beautiful moments of community I 've seen in my eight years working at the Press Herald . It was so clear how much Pat meant to his town . Hundreds and hundreds of people showed up to honor him . It was incredibly emotional and an assignment that will stay with me forever . Pat died just seven days after this photo was taken . It was truly an honor to be there and document that night . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Portland 's fireworks display seen from Bug Light Park in South Portland on July 4 . <p> We usually photograph Portland 's July 4th fireworks from the Eastern Promenade . This year , I decided to take a chance and photograph the fireworks from Bug Light Park in South Portland . The park was crowded , but I found a spot along the rocks where I could see the fireworks and include the small lighthouse in the photo . I think the risk paid off ; this image with people standing along the rocks is very different ( and I think better ) than the images of fireworks I have made from the Eastern Prom over the years . <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Sophia Conners , 7 , rides a wave to shore with help from volunteers Colleen Clark , left , and Rich Laracy during the first Special Surfers session of the summer at Gooch 's Beach in Kennebunk on July 18 . <p> Special Surfers have held events at Gooch 's Beach in Kennebunk since 2003 , and I 've photographed them more than a dozen times over the years . The organization 's mission is to introduce the thrill of surfing to people with developmental , emotional or physical disabilities . I always see beaming smiles and hear joyous laughter and shouts at these events . Last June , walking along the waterline , I was immediately drawn to the obvious joy of surfer Sophia Conners . Her expression in this photo perfectly sums up what Special Surfers is all about . <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Pandora LaCasse in her Portland studio , where she creates and maintains the winter light forms seen throughout the city and other towns . This season marks 25 years that LaCasse has been installing the lights in public places . <p> When I found out that I would be making a portrait of Pandora LaCasse , who has been creating the fabulous winter light displays in Portland for 25 years , I knew I wanted to include one of her light forms in the photo . When I arrived at her studio , she was doing maintenance on three of them . As I set up my flash , she plugged in one form , and when I looked through the camera , all the lights were very far out of focus because of the lens settings from a previous assignment . I thought " Would n't it be cool if I could keep the lights that far out of focus for the portrait so they would be more like orbs of lights rather than small pinpoints of LED lighting ? " By positioning myself close to the lights around the form and using a very wide aperture -- in this case f/1.2 on my 50 millimeter lens -- I was able to keep those lights out-of-focus so it appears they are floating around LaCasse . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> Stephen Gellman surfs a rapid in his kayak on the Mousam River in Kennebunk on May 2 . Gellman , from Massachusets , works with Team River Runner , a national organization that introduces veterans to river kayaking as a way to heal from post-traumatic stress disorder . <p> I was on my way home when I noticed two people hoisting whitewater kayaks onto their shoulders in a parking lot near the Mousam River in Kennebunk . We did n't need a photo feature for the next day 's Press Herald , but I had never seen whitewater kayakers at this part of the river before and was intrigued , so I turned my car around and followed them to the river 's edge . They told me they were planning to surf the rapids right underneath the bridge that carries Route 1 over the river , and I immediately thought " What luck ! I can photograph them from the bridge to achieve an aerial view . " I knew from past experiences photographing whitewater kayakers that there are moments when they can be quite still while surfing a river wave , so I set my shutter to a slow speed that would blur the water while bracing my camera against the railing of the bridge to keep it steady . <h> Photo by Gregory Rec <p> I was n't sure what to expect when I got a January assignment to meet with people who were trying to capture and save rats under the Casco Bay Bridge in Harbor View Memorial Park . Some neighbors near the park complained of numerous rats after the city cleared a large homeless encampment there . A group formed to save the rats , saying that they were not wild but domesticated . Brittney Smith came from Fryeburg to set traps throughout the park . As she walked among the rocks , the late-afternoon sun shined on her like a stage spotlight , setting her apart from the surrounding darkness under the bridge . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> A loon flaps its wings at dusk on Kidney Pond in Baxter State Park on Aug. 22 . <p> When I was younger , my one and only goal when I went to Baxter State Park was to hike to the peak of Katahdin . As a young adult on one such a trip , my group and I arrived too late to score a parking spot near any of Katahdin 's trailheads . I was encouraged by a ranger to try another mountain , Doubletop , and sent to park by Kidney Pond . What started off as a disappointment turned out to be a blessing in disguise . On this trip , we found a new favorite camping spot at Kidney Pond and a new mountain we love to hike . So 20 or so years later , I was paddling with my wife , Amy , enjoying the mountain views and serenity of the pond when this loon popped up from the water and flapped its wings . It 's moments like this that bring me back to Baxter State Park year after year . <p> Advertisement <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Cooper Flagg dunks the ball on the first possession of the game at the Cross Insurance Arena in Portland on Jan. 5 . <p> The Cross Insurance Arena was packed with cheering fans eager to see Cooper Flagg and his twin brother , Ace , on their return to Maine after transferring to Montverde Academy , a private prep school in Florida known for its basketball program . The fans were not disappointed as Cooper scored the game 's first points with this monstrous dunk . He went on to score 23 points , and Ace added 6 . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Choreographer Michelle Kapschull , center , works with dancers as they rehearse for a performance based on Portland writer MZ 's novel " The Moorings of Mackerel Sky . " The dancers and choreographer are reflected in a mirror as they rehearse at Casco Bay Movers on Jan. 21 . <p> The choreographer and dancers deserve any and all credit for this photo . They were dancing beautifully with colorful scarves ; I was just hoping my photos would do them justice . After shooting from every angle I could think of , I focused my attention on their reflection in the mirror and waited for all the elements to line up . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Kira Scholl , 7 , and Dax Scholl , 8 , of Cape Elizabeth wear eclipse glasses as they watch the sky through the sunroof of a vehicle at the Eastern Promenade in Portland on April 8 . <p> As thousands of visitors flocked to northern Maine to watch the total solar eclipse , I was assigned to photograph Portland 's view . While not in the path of totality , Portland still had hundreds of people spread out throughout the city , and especially on the Eastern Prom , taking in the rare occurrence . I noticed these two kids watching through the sunroof of their parked vehicle with eclipse glasses on . <h> Photo by Shawn Patrick Ouellette <p> Wess Moseman of South Portland watches the choppy waves roll in from his surfboard at Higgins Beach in Scarborough on October 7 . <p> While feature-cruising on my favorite route -- the coastal route from Saco to Portland -- I came across this scene at Higgins Beach . I almost drove off as I only saw one surfer and the waves were n't too exciting . But I decided to pull over and get out to take a closer look . I liked the view of him , alone , looking out at the water and the vastness of the empty ocean on this gray day . It gives it a different feel than other shots of surfers I 've taken .
