<h> Why did Bangladesh events come as a shock to the government ? What about relations with China , the U.S. , countries in the neighbourhood and West Asia ? <p> All eyes will be on Russian President Vladimir Putin 's visit to Delhi , his first since the war began , expected to be finalised early in 2025 . Photo Credit : Reuters <p> The story so far : <p> After Prime Minister Narendra Modi was sworn in for a third time in June , the year was jam-packed with incoming and outgoing visits . Above all , 2024 was full of global insecurity and shocks in the neighbourhood , particularly Bangladesh . As 2025 looks to be even more uncertain , Indian foreign policy 's biggest challenge is to remain poised for change . <h> What were the high points in India 's external relations ? <p> The most difficult negotiation completed this year was for disengagement at the Line of Actual Control with China . While restoring ties and rebuilding the trust shattered by the Chinese PLA 's transgressions since 2020 is a more prolonged task , the first formal Modi-Xi Jinping meeting in five years at Kazan , on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Russia , was a turning point . <p> The year began with a visit from French President Emmanuel Macron as a guest on Republic Day and a reaffirmation of the dependability of bilateral ties . Mr. Macron was not the government 's original invitee , as Mr. Modi had hoped to host U.S. President Joseph Biden and also hold the Quad in Delhi that time . But when Mr. Macron stepped in , Mr. Modi set the seal on a number of India-France future forays in defence , energy and maritime cooperation . Early in 2024 , the conclusion of the India-European Free Trade Association agreement , India 's first with Europe , was heralded as a template for India to complete other such negotiations , although the year ended without similar progress on FTAs with Australia , the U.K. , and the European Union . <p> The neighbourhood was also the subject of some bright spots , including the attendance of leaders of most of the neighbouring countries for Mr. Modi 's swearing-in . Pakistan was n't invited , but External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar made the first such visit in nearly a decade to Islamabad for the SCO summit . Several visits by the Bhutan King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck and Prime Minister Tshering Tobgay as well as Mr. Modi 's visit to Thimphu to receive an award , and successful visits by the new Sri Lankan President Anura Kumara Dissanayake and Maldives President Mohamed Muizzu , setting aside the tensions earlier , were other high points of the year . <h> What kept South Block awake at night in 2024 ? <p> The transformation of Bangladesh , from a friendly neighbour and most important connectivity partner under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina , to becoming estranged over her ouster from power in August was the year 's biggest shock for New Delhi . The MEA repeatedly raised concerns over the sharp rise in attacks on Hindu minorities that followed , and Ms. Hasina 's stay in India has become the biggest thorn in the once close partnership . <p> Ties with Canada took a turn for the worse as Canadian authorities doubled down on allegations that Indian officials had ordered the Nijjar killing , even naming Home Minister Amit Shah in the alleged conspiracy . New Delhi dealt with Canada by slamming its doors shut on PM Justin Trudeau , with the hope a new government will be elected there in 2025 . But it was n't easy to do the same with the U.S. , where the Department of Justice filed indictments against the Adani group and a new indictment against an Indian official for the alleged Pannun assassination plot . The U.S. 's role in the South Asian neighbourhood , especially with the changes in Bangladesh , and China 's forays into Nepal and other neighbours are a continuing challenge . However , the election of U.S. President Donald Trump and the largely pro-India team he has picked could be a breather . <h> How did Indian foreign policy navigate global conflict ? <p> With both the Russia-Ukraine conflict and Israel 's war in Gaza , India consistently put itself on the " side of peace " . Mr. Modi 's visits to Russia and Ukraine within weeks of each other raised speculation that he would play mediator in future negotiations . There were no high-level visits from or to Israel , and Mr. Modi made a point of meeting Palestinian PM Mahmoud Abbas at the UN . While New Delhi repeatedly called for an end to the civilian casualties , it continued to hedge its position at the UN on resolutions seeking to bring Israel to account for the killing of more than 45,000 in Gaza . With multilateral initiatives like IMEC ( India-Middle East Europe-Economic Corridor ) and I2U2 ( India , Israel , UAE and U.S. ) in trouble , India sought to engage West Asian countries bilaterally . In 2025 , a more difficult tightrope walk for South Block is expected between Iran and the Israel-U.S. combine . <h> What 's on the diplomatic calendar in 2025 ? <p> Mr. Jaishankar 's year-end visit to Washington and meetings with the Trump transition team indicate that ties with the U.S. will be a priority in 2025 . Mr. Trump is expected to visit India for the Quad Summit next year and Mr. Modi is likely to call on him in Washington before that . 2025 is expected to begin with a ministerial visit from Iran , followed by U.S. NSA Jake Sullivan for a last-moment iCET ( Initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology ) meet . <p> Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto will be the Republic Day guest . All eyes will be on Russian President Vladimir Putin 's visit to Delhi , his first since the war began , expected to be finalised early in 2025 . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
