<h> The Morning Call 2024 Pictures of the Year PHOTOS <h> Share this : <p> As 2024 comes to an end , we take a look back at our favorite pictures of the year in The Morning Call . <p> An ostrich is seen Saturday , Oct , 26 , 2024 , during Boo at the Zoo event at the Lehigh Valley Zoo in North Whitehall Township . This is the final weekend for the trick-or-treat event . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Children and families watch the North American otters on Saturday , Oct , 26 , 2024 , during Boo at the Zoo event at the Lehigh Valley Zoo in North Whitehall Township . This is the final weekend for the trick-or-treat event . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> The St. Luke 's Nurse Honor Guard 's Jane Fisk gives a lamp to Elspeth Sipple , daughter of the late Dr. Janet Sipple during a memorial service for the late Dr. Janet Sipple Friday , April 5 , 2024 , at Moravian University in Bethlehem . Sipple , who worked for St. Luke 's and was a visiting professor at Moravian , was honored by St. Luke 's Nurse Honor Guard , which pays tribute to nurses who have died with the Nightingale Ceremony , named for famous nurse Florence Nightingale . During the services , a member of the Honor Guard reads the " Nightingale Pledge " and a sonnet , then places a rose while saying the nurse 's name and , " We honor you this day and give you a white rose to symbolize our honor and appreciation for being our nursing colleague . " ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Blue Mountain Ski Resort employees prepare the slopes Tuesday , Dec. 3 , 2024 , for an anticipated opening on Friday . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Lisa MacDonald , of Imperfection is Beautiful , adjusts one of her " imperfect chandeliers " made with reused material . Children could build one of the chandeliers for free on Saturday , April 20 , 2024 , during Allentown 's fifth annual Earth Day in the Park at Cedar Creek Park . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Sage Tatum , 5 , places Easter eggs in her basket Sunday , March 31 , 2024 , during the Ortiz Ark Foundation 's fifth annual Easter Egg hunt at Stevens Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Parkland 's Blake Dergham wrestles Phillipsburg 's Dawson McWilliams in the 119-pound bout Thursday , March 14 , 2024 , during the Easton Lions Club Classic wrestling match New Jersey vs . District 11 at Easton High School . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) The Easton Marching Band and others parade down Northampton Street on Wednesday , Nov. 27 , 2024 , to Cottingham Stadium on the eve of the Easton-Phillipsburg football game on Thanksgiving . A parade and community pep rally including a laser light show was held instead of the bonfire due to a county-wide burn ban . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> A pedestrian walks in the falling snow Saturday , Jan. 6 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Roller coaster enthusiast Iby Shaw , of Schnecksville , photographed going upside down through a loop , achieved a remarkable feat on Friday , Oct. 11 , 2024 , with his 1,000th ride on Dorney Park 's Iron Menace . Since the ride 's opening on April 17 , Shaw relentlessly pursued his goal and reached the milestone on Friday . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Dieruff High School 's Ronald Suarez fields the ball while leaping over Allen 's Adrian Garcia during an Eastern Pennsylvania Conference game against Allen at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Allentown Streets employees prepare to put a spreader on the back of a truck Wednesday , Jan. 3 , 2024 , at the city 's Department of Public Works site on Grammes Road in Allentown . The National Weather Service has stated snow is likely this weekend in the Lehigh Valley , however it 's not clear yet how much will fall . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) The Hawk Mountain Highlanders perform in the Allentown St. Patrick 's Day Parade on Sunday , March 17 , 2024 . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Logan Miles throws dice in the air as he plays a Race to Launch space game Tuesday , Sept. 17 , 2024 , during Reach Cyber Charter School 's curiosity carnival-themed back-to-school event at the Da Vinci Science Center in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Jamison Tice uses an air cannon station to blow over a tower of cups Tuesday , Sept. 17 , 2024 , at the Blastoff ! /Air Properties area during Reach Cyber Charter School 's curiosity carnival-themed back-to-school event at the Da Vinci Science Center in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Jenvirick Dewinvt repairs his bicycle tire during an open house Monday , April 15 , 2024 , to announce Community Bike Works in Allentown will host the national 2024 Youth Bike Summit in Allentown . The event is expected to bring to draw up to 400 youth and their advocates from youth bike programs across the country . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Nazareth 's Naomee Adisa competes in girls pole vault Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County . <p> Boys compete in the 3200m relay Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County.Nativity BVM 's Liam Messina competes in boys high jump Tuesday , May 14 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County.Tony Iannelli , president and CEO , of the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce , performs with Allen High School Theatre Department members Thursday , Nov. 7 , 2024 , during the chamber 's annual meeting at the Wind Creek Event Center in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Ryan Mackenzie speaks during the Greater Lehigh Valley Chamber of Commerce annual meeting Thursday , Nov. 7 , 2024 , at the Wind Creek Event Center in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Broughal Middle School student Victoria Morales-Ramirez , center , reacts as Cirque Kikasse performs for the public and students Wednesday , Sept.18 , 2024 , at Lehigh University in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Performers in the Cirque du Soleil show " Corteo " rehearse before opening night Thursday , March 28 , 2024 , at PPL Center in Allentown . The venue will host performances March 28-31 . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> The new DaVinci Science Center building in Allentown is seen Wednesday , May 15 , 2024 , during a " soft opening " event there . The center will open to the public on May 22 , 2024 . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Riley leaps into the pool Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 , during a diving competition as part of Barktoberfest at the Promenade Saucon Valley in Center Valley . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Faces in the Crowd : The Durham Bulls play the Lehigh Valley IronPigs Friday , April , 12 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Members of an honor guard ring the bell Wednesday , Oct. 9 , 2024 at Schweder Fire Station Co. 1 in Bethlehem during the annual memorial ceremony for city firefighters who died this past year . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Danni Robinson enjoys her pasta dish Friday , Jan. 26 , 2024 , during the weekly Firehouse Friday at Hibernia Fire Station in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Paul Wright talks about honeybees and their behavior to the crowd Friday , March 8 , 2024 , at his booth at the Lehigh Valley Flower Show in Allentown . The show runs through Sunday at the Allentown Agri-Plex . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> The IronPigs ' Nick Podkul slides safe into second base during a game against Durham Friday , March , 29 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Rochester plays the Lehigh Valley IronPigs Friday , March , 29 , 2024 , in the opening game of the season at Coca-Cola Park . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Director TJ Hayden leads the Delaware Valley Regional High School Delaware Valley Golden Blues band performs Sunday , Feb. 25 , 2024 , during the 12th annual SteelStacks High School Jazz Band Showcase in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> State Rep. Ryan Mackenzie , who won the Republican nomination for the 7th congressional district , speaks Tuesday , April 23 , 2024 , at Delizoso Italian Grill in Macungie . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Lehigh Valley Children 's Centers student Marleigh , left , and Josiah , right , paint a mural panel Thursday , March 28 , 2024 , in Allentown . The 120-foot-long artwork will be installed in late spring on the new Da Vinci Science Center in downtown Allentown . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Northwestern Lehigh reacts as they win the District 11 3A championship game against North Schuylkill on Friday , Nov. 8 , 2024 , at Lehighton High School . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> The East Hills Middle School Charger Band performs during the Parade of Shamrocks on Saturday , March 16 , 2024 , along Main Street in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) The crowd watches the Parade of Shamrocks on Saturday , March 16 , 2024 , along Main Street in Bethlehem . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Parkland 's Nick Coval defends Northampton 's Tristen Pinnock against Northampton in a boys basketball game Tuesday , Jan. 30 , 2024 , at Parkland High School . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Gov . Josh Shapiro speaks during a Wednesday , May 8 , 2024 , news conference at 983 American Parkway , Allentown during which officials announced the state is awarding a $1.1 million grant to help construct a building at that address to be used for industrial production . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) Elena Smith catches some air Tuesday , Feb. 13 , 2024 , as she sleds down a hill at Catasauqua Park . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Jeannette Hernandez performs a derma blade service on client Becky Vanseeters at Spiritual Skin Med Spa on Friday , Dec. 6 , 2024 , in Upper Macungie Township . Hernandez opened the business a few months ago . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Paper hearts decorate a wall Thursday , Feb. 8 , 2024 , at the Third Street Parking deck in Easton . Mercantile Home , an Easton gift store , is sponsoring a community project called Love Easton with the goal of having community members make 28,127 paper hearts , one for each resident of the city , to display in public spaces in Easton through March 9 . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Attendees hold candles Monday , Nov. 18 , 2024 , during a vigil for Victoria Lee at Lehigh University in Bethlehem . Lee , a 2022 Lehigh alum , was fatally shot by police in July during a mental health crisis at her apartment in Fort Lee , N.J. ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Democratic vice presidential candidate and Minnesota Gov . Tim Walz greets the Almonte family , who own El Tipico restaurant , Friday , Oct. 25 , 2024 , during a campaign stop in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> Snow gleams in the late afternoon sun Tuesday , Feb. 20 , 2024 , in the Colonial Industrial Quarter in Bethlehem . After a storm last week dumped a foot of snow in some areas of the Lehigh Valley , this week 's forecast largely calls for high temperatures in the 40s . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Bethlehem Catholic 's Carter Vassa runs with the ball against Berks Catholic 's Gavin Welker on Thursday , Sept. 5 , 2024 , during a football game at BASD Stadium in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Bethlehem Catholic celebrates winning the District 11 4A baseball championship Wenesday , May 29 , 2024 , at DeSales University . Bethlehem Catholic defeated North Schuylkill . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> Artists Billy Nieves and Jermel Fountain , along with students from Donegan Elementary School , unveil a mural they created Friday , May 31 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . Donegan art teacher Tiffany Anderson facilitated the project , engaging her fifth-grade students in the design process.Barry Karver of Green Lane , a supporter of Donald Trump , stands Friday , Jan. 12 , 2024 , on Chestnut Street in Emmaus waiting for President Biden to arrive . " The big lie is coming ! " Karver said . " ... Immigrants , get better recognition than veterans . " ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Team Night Death 's Jess Gellis and son Holden , 5 , both of Schnecksville , compete Sunday , March 10 , 2024 , in a cardboard box race at Bear Creek Mountain in Longswamp Township . Using only a cardboard box , duct tape , paint , zip ties and some creativity , racers head down snow-covered Bear Creek Mountain . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Allentown Summer Playground Program participant Josiah Watkins , 10 , learns the basics of how to operate the water hose from Allentown firefighter Lt. Jeremy Warmkessel on Tuesday , June 18 , 2024 , at Roosevelt Park in Allentown . With the region under a heat advisory until Thursday and then an excessive heat watch until Sunday , the fire department is operating cooling stations this week at various parks . The National Weather Service reported a heat index of 88 degrees about 4 p.m . Tuesday . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Concerned citizens , activists and community leaders gather Tuesday , March , 5 , 2024 , at Lehigh University during a rally urging Bethlehem City Council to take action to end the siege on Gaza and advocate for an immediate ceasefire . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Interlace Cultural y Desarrollo Mexicano Dance Troupe performs Tuesday , May 21 , 2024 , during the opening ceremony of the new Da Vinci Science Center in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell / The Morning Call ) <p> Faces in the crowd during the Bethlehem Catholic vs Berks Catholic football game Thursday , Sept. 5 , 2024 , at BASD Stadium in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) A picturesque view is seen Thursday , Oct. 10 , 2024 during a brisk late afternoon on the bridge at Hugh Moore Park in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Leaves start to turn color Thursday , Oct. 10 , 2024 during a brisk late afternoon at Hugh Moore Park in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Fog rolls over the fields to create a painterly landscape Thursday , Jan. 25 , 2024 , along Rt . 100 near Claussville . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Lehigh Valley high school drama students perform the opening number during the 2024 Freddy Awards on Thursday , May 23 , 2024 , at the State Theatre in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Emmaus performs a song from Rodgers &amp; Hammerstein 's Cinderella ( Broadway Version ) during the 2024 Freddy Awards on Thursday , May 23 , 2024 , at the State Theatre in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Freedom 's Geovanny Ledee slides back to first base against Parkland 's Mack Parsell on Friday , April 26 , 2024 , during a Eastern Pennsylvania Conference game at Freedom High School in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Freedom 's Chase Walker passes against Bethlehem Catholic on Thursday , Oct. 03 , 2024 , during a football game in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Carson Kressley on horseback , dressed in a tricorn hat and red-trimmed regimental coat , Thursday , March 7 , 2024 , splashes down the middle of a creek off Main Street , in Quakertown . Kressley makes an appearance as Gen. William McPherson in " The Fries Rebellion , " an educational docudrama under production in the area this week . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Area residents dressed in festive costumes gather on Maplewood Road to perform for trick-or-treaters as the crowd watches during a Halloween flash mob Thursday , Oct. 31 , 2024 , in Riegelsville . The annual performance started in 2019 when neighbors and friends took over the road with a surprise performance to bring a little more fun and an extra treat for residents during the holiday . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Timothy Bricco , 15 , of Boy Scout Troop 352 helps fold American flags to be burned in a flag-retirement ceremony during a Patriot Day event to remember the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , at Hanover Township Community Center in Hanover Township , Northampton County . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Boy Scout Troop 352 leaders Dave Soares and Javier Diaz burn retired American flags during a Patriot Day ceremony to remember the victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , at Hanover Township Community Center in Hanover Township , Northampton County . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Pennsylvania Gov . Josh Shapiro speaks to the crowd at Kamala Harris ' campaign rally Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 , at Muhlenberg College in Allentown . ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call ) A person and their dog take a walk Saturday , Feb. 17 , 2024 , in Bethlehem 's Historic Downtown after a fast-moving winter storm moved through the Lehigh Valley . The storm left up to a foot of snow in some parts of the region . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Eli Rich , 6 , of Hellertown , and his buddy take a breather after moving to the music Thursday , June 27 , 2024 at the Hellertown Community Pool during a Dip-N-Dance ? event . According to his mom , Eli is his own person and dances to the beat of his own drum . ( Monica Cabrera/Special to The Morning Call ) <p> People splash each other with colored powder Sunday , April 21 , 2024 , during the Indian American Association of Lehigh Valley 's celebration of Holi , the Hindu festival of colors , at Grange Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Myra Patel , 9 , dances with others during a demonstration performance Sunday , Sept. 15 , 2024 , during the seventh annual India Heritage Day hosted by Saara Arts at the Arts Park in Allentown . Saara Arts is a Lehigh Valley nonprofit cultural organization promoting Indian and global art . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Faces in the Crowd : The IronPigs play the Buffalo Bisons on Tuesday , June 4 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) <p> Tom Leakan of Somerdale , New Jersey , tries to keep cool as he watches watches an IronPigs baseball game Tuesday , July 9 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Ironpigs ' pitcher Max Castillo tries to keep cool between innings in the dugout during an IronPigs baseball game Tuesday , July 9 , 2024 , at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Vice President Kamala Harris holds a rally Monday , Nov. 4 , 2024 , at Muhlenberg College in Allentown , just one day before the 2024 presidential election . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Lehigh University and the Steel Battalion Army ROTC Program holds its annual 9/11 memorial event Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , to mark the 23rd anniversary of the terror attacks . The ceremony included a flag raising , moment of silence and the planting of the 2,977 American flags to honor the lives lost . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Lehigh University and the Steel Battalion Army ROTC Program holds its annual 9/11 memorial event Wednesday , Sept. 11 , 2024 , to mark the 23rd anniversary of the terror attacks . The ceremony included a flag raising , moment of silence and the planting of the 2,977 American flags to honor the lives lost . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Scenes during the Lehigh University vs Colgate University football game Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 , held at Goodman Stadium in Lower Saucon Township . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Scenes during the Lehigh University vs Colgate University football game Saturday , Nov. 16 , 2024 , held at Goodman Stadium in Lower Saucon Township . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Demonstrators set up replica coffins at a " Solidarity Week for Palestine " rally Friday , May 3 , 2024 , on the Lehigh University campus in Bethlehem . The rally was held to protest Israel 's military campaign in Gaza . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Lehigh 's Joshua Ingram looks to score against Lafayette 's Luka Savicevic on Thursday , March 7 , 2024 , during a Patriot League men 's quarterfinal basketball game at Kirby Sports Center in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Lafayette 's Ryan Pettit drives against Lehigh 's Keith Higgins Jr . on Thursday , March 7 , 2024 , during a Patriot League men 's quarterfinal basketball game at Kirby Sports Center in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Siblings Luna , 6 , and Forrest , 6 , both of Whitehall play with Paige Nawarynski , 11 , who is dressed as a Christmas elf-like character Thursday , Nov. 21 , 2024 , during the Special Needs/Handicap Night at Lights in Greenawalds in South Whitehall Township . The free event , in partnership with the ARC of Lehigh and Northampton Counties , features quieter music , dimmer lights , and popcorn , hot chocolate , candy and chocolate . The next Special Needs/Handicap Night at Lights in Greenawalds is 5-8 p.m . Dec. 5 . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) The crowd listens as Songwriter , actor and " Hamilton " star Lin-Manuel Miranda speaks during a Vote Early Party on Wednesday , Oct. 30 , 2024 , at the Puerto Rican Beneficial Society of Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> A monarch butterfly flits in the rows of flowers Sunday , Oct. 6 , 2024 , during the ninth annual Monocacy Farm Food Festival in Bethlehem . The festival included a nature walk , activities , live music and a farm tour . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Artsquest audio engineer Scott Dean works with local band Ruby Dear to teach Lehigh Valley high school students what a sound check is Monday , April 15 , 2024 , during Music Industry Day with ArtsQuest in Bethlehem . Students spent the day learning about marking and programming in the music industry . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Nazareth 's Jack Campbell wrestles Northampton 's Chase Grabfelder in the 145-pound weight class on Wednesday , Jan. 3 , 2024 , during a wrestling match in Northampton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Bethlehem Catholic 's Hailey Pyle pitches to Nazareth on Tuesday , May 7 , 2024 , during a softball game Nazareth . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Local dignitaries and others attend a beam signing Tuesday , Sept. 10 , 2024 , in Allentown at the construction site of the Neuweiler Lofts . The former brewery is just one project being redeveloped along the city 's riverfront . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mandi Caskey paints a swamp woman themed mural on Friday , Sept. 6 , 2024 , on at " The Path , " a new pedestrian alley at 932 Hamilton St. in Allentown . Seventeen artists worked on different murals along the alleyway . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> The artist El Souls creates a mural depicting characters from comic books and anime Friday , Sept. 6 , 2024 , on The Path , a new pedestrian alley at 932 Hamilton St. in Allentown . Seventeen artists worked on different murals along the alleyway . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Northwestern Lehigh wins against Avonworth on Saturday , Dec. 7 , 2024 , during the PIAA 3A football championship game at Cumberland Valley High School 's Chapman Field in Mechanicsburg , Pa . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Northwestern Lehigh 's Landen Matson catches the ball against Avonworth 's Billy Onyshko on Saturday , Dec. 7 , 2024 , during the PIAA 3A football championship game at Cumberland Valley High School 's Chapman Field in Mechanicsburg , Pa . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Parkland 's Charlie Epstein completes a dive Wednesday , Jan. 3 , 2024 , during a swimming and diving meet against Northampton in Northampton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Parkland 's Andrew Beers competes in the 400-meter hurdles on Wednesday , March 20 , 2024 , during a track and field meet against Freedom at Parkland High School . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Brayden , a patient at Lehigh Valley Reilly Children 's Hospital , gives the JustBorn Peep Chick a high-five as the chick visits his room Wednesday , May 22 , 2024 , in Salisbury Township , during the hospital 's 12th birthday celebration . <p> Southern Lehigh 's Sean Steckert runs with the ball against Pottsville 's Shay Strencosky on Thursday , Nov. 7 , 2024 , during a District 11 Class 4A semifinal football game in Center Valley . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Lehigh 's Ryan Crookham wrestles Penn State 's Braeden Davis in the 133- pound weight class Sunday , Dec.8 , 2024 , during a college wrestling match at PPL Center in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Ibtihal Gassem , a first year Lehigh University student hols a flag in support of Palestine . Students and community members gathered Friday , May 3 , 2024 in solidarity with student protests around the country , Lehigh University students hosted a " Solidarity Week for Palestine . " The week of peaceful activities included art-making , film screenings , an interfaith vigil &amp; a Palestinian cultural festival -- all of which culminated in the rally on Lehigh 's campus . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Students and community members gathered Friday , May 3 , 2024 in solidarity with student protests around the country , Lehigh University students hosted a " Solidarity Week for Palestine . " The week of peaceful activities included art-making , film screenings , an interfaith vigil &amp; a Palestinian cultural festival -- all of which culminated in the rally on Lehigh 's campus . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) A Devanshi dance is performed Saturday , Jan. 27 , 2024 , during the celebration of Republic Day of India hosted by the Indian American Association of the Lehigh Valley at Cedar Crest College in Allentown . The celebration included dances , musical performances and vocal solos . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mahima Rampla , 12 , of Allentown performs a Maha Ganapatim dance with others Saturday , Jan. 27 , 2024 , during the celebration of Republic Day of India hosted by the Indian American Association of the Lehigh Valley at Cedar Crest College in Allentown . The celebration included dances , musical performances and vocal solos . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Rick Anderson , president and CEO of St. Luke 's University Health Network poses in his office Friday , April 5 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Amaiya Kavachery , a student at Lehigh Career Technical Institute , is overcome with emotion ecstatic as she is awarded a full-tuition scholarship to Cedar Crest College Tuesday , April 9 , 2024 , at LCTI in North Whitehall Township . Kavachery was the winner of the college 's annual scholarship competition , and was presented with her full-tuition prize , flowers and an appearance from Franki the Falcon . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Maya , 2 , and Ojas , 6 , play at the Scribble Scrubbie area Monday , Sept. 23 , 2024 , during the Screamin ' Green Hauntoween at Crayola Experience in Easton . Screamin ' Green Hauntoween , a Halloween-themed event with a scavenger hunt , crafts and photo opportunities , runs through Oct. 31 . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> A person walks with an umbrella during the rain Tuesday , March 5 , 2024 , in Easton . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Faith Brown of Bethlehem pulls Max and Hannah of Hellertown in a sled after a fun day in the snow Friday , Jan. 19 , 2024 , on Juniper Street in the borough . Brown is a nanny for the children . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) People enjoy trick-or-treating Thursday , Oct. 24 , 2024 , during IronPigs Charities ' annual Suites ' N ' Treats event at Coca-Cola Park in Allentown . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Papi , a Chihuahua , competes Sunday , June 2 , 2024 , in the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest with owner Cheryl Urban of Bethlehem during TacoFest at SteelStacks in Bethlehem . The event features tacos , live music , the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest and more . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mariachi Pedro performs Sunday , June 2 , 2024 , during TacoFest at SteelStacks in Bethlehem . The event features tacos , live music , the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest and more . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Mariachi Pedro performs Sunday , June 2 , 2024 , during TacoFest at SteelStacks in Bethlehem . The event features tacos , live music , the SteelStacks Chihuahua Beauty Contest and more . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Teachers Christie Johnston , Cynthia Vinovskis and Rebecca Zawarski watch as Delwin Elk Bear Fiddler , founder of Paza , Tree of Life , dances with hoops during a presentation Thursday , May 9 , 2024 . The event was part of a Teachers ' Night Out hosted by the National Museum of Industrial History in Bethlehem and organized by Lehigh Valley Passport to History , a partnership of area historic sites . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Matt Whitaker the former acting U.S. attorney general under Donald Trump , speaks Monday , Oct. 21 , 2024 , at a Team Trump Bus Tour stop in the Valley Family Restaurant parking lot in Bethlehem Township . The tour comes 15 days before the Nov. 5 election as both Republicans and Democrats make their final push to win what is expected to be a very close race in Pennsylvania , which could be the decisive state in winning the White House . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Supporters of Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump have signed the Team Trump Tour Buses , the tour stopped Monday , Oct. 21 , 2024 , in the Valley Family Restaurant parking lot in Bethlehem Township . The tour comes 15 days before the Nov. 5 election as both Republicans and Democrats make their final push to win what is expected to be a very close race in Pennsylvania , which could be the decisive state in winning the White House . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> People line up to pay for their groceries Wednesday , July 10 , 2024 , with a $59.08 gift voucher given to them by The Libre Initiative , a nonprofit affiliated with the billionaire Koch brothers that aims to attract Latino voters to the Republican Party . The first 100 shoppers during the event at Bravo Meat Market in Allentown received the vouchers to provide relief from the higher cost of groceries due to inflation . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Emmaus ' Kyle Moore competes in the Boys Long Jump event Wednesday , May 8 , 2024 , during the EPC and Colonial League Track &amp; Field Championships at Whitehall High School . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Easton 's Jayden Ekoko competes in the boys long jump event Wednesday , May 15 , 2024 , at the District 11 Track &amp; Field Championships at Blue Mountain High School in North Manheim Township , Schuylkill County . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Chris Stofanak , left , of Bethlehem Township and Robby Killey of Easton deliver two voting machines Thursday , Oct. 31 , 2024 , to Lower Saucon United Church of Christ and other polling places in Hellertown ahead of Election Day , which is Tuesday , Nov. 5 , 2024 . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) Democratic vice presidential nominee Gov . Tim Walz holds a rally on Saturday , Sept. 21 , 2024 , at Freedom High School in Bethlehem Township . ( Amy Shortell/The Morning Call ) Brandon Horninger , left to right , Michael K. Horninger , Lexi Horninger and Ziggie , their dog , were the second in line Thursday , Feb. 8 , 2024 for the opening of the new drive-thru Wawa at 6216 Hamilton Blvd. in Allentown . Hope Schafer , a supervisor at Wawa , serves them their order at the drive-thru window . According to the Horninger family , Wawa has been a part of their entire lives and they have eaten breakfast , lunch , dinner and late night snacks with friends at Wawa . According to Lexi Horninger , Wawa is better than Sheetz and " I 'll fight anyone who says differently , " she said playfully . The first 100 customers at Thursday 's opening received a free T-shirt then witnessed a ceremony including a celebratory grand entrance by the new store team , a hoagie-building competition between the Lower Macungie Fire department and Macungie Ambulance and a ribbon-cutting with the corporate mascot , Wally Goose . ( Monica Cabrera/The Morning Call ) <p> Using an umbrella to shield herself from the rain Maggie Frost of Bethlehem walks under a canopy of blooming flowers on a tree Tuesday , April 2 , 2024 , in the city . A senior fitness instructor at the YMCA , Frost was walking after her class and wore a heavier jacket than usual because of the weather . The rain is expected to continue most of Wednesday with a chance of showers Thursday , according to the National Weather Service . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) Raindrops are seen on daffodils Tuesday , April 2 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) A fallen cherry blossom is seen in a puddle during heavy rains Tuesday , April 2 , 2024 , in Bethlehem . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) <p> Jayden , a lifeguard at Irving Pool in Allentown , watches swimmers Wednesday , July 10 , 2024 . The pool 's lifeguards rotate every 20 minutes to help keep cool and alert . ( April Gamiz/The Morning Call ) President Joe Biden visits Friday , Jan. 12 , 2024 , with owners and staff of Emmaus Run Inn in Emmaus . The president visited the Lehigh Valley to meet with small business owners and highlight his economic agenda . ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call ) President Joe Biden greets Allentown firefighters Friday , Jan. 12 , 2024 , at the Mack South Fire Station in Allentown . The president visited the Lehigh Valley to talk with small business owners and highlight his economic agenda . ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call ) ( April Gamiz / The Morning Call )
