<h> Exclusive : Life Aboard a Nuclear Submarine as the US Responds to Threats Around the Globe <p> In the middle of the Atlantic Ocean , the nuclear submarine Wyoming surfaces for a short time to take aboard a commander , who is scheduled to conduct a spot inspection.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Under cover of darkness , I boarded a Navy vessel at a heavily guarded military base along the Eastern Seaboard . The location and time of departure , as well as the direction and distance of travel , were unknown to me . Adding to the sense of secrecy , a towering sailor in camouflage stood in the rain , examining my belongings for electronics that might leave a digital trail an adversary could intercept and exploit . <p> Buffeted by strong winds and high Atlantic seas , the support ship sailed through the night for more than 15 storm-tossed hours toward a destination somewhere off the continental shelf . Just after dawn , a sleek , inky object appeared in the distance , right above the waterline . It was the protruding bridge of what sailors call a " boomer " -- a submarine armed to the gills with nuclear missiles -- which is considered the most lethal , stealthy , and survivable weapon in America 's strategic arsenal . <p> A sailor among torpedo tubes.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Photographer Philip Montgomery and I had been granted permission to chronicle life aboard a boomer -- at a perilous time . Our embed was unique : The arms and technology on board , along with the ship 's routines and missions , are among the government 's most closely guarded secrets . We 'd been told that the number of civilians who had been given this level of access ( carrying cameras , no less ) was roughly the same as that who have walked on the moon . <p> Last summer , when I 'd placed a request for the voyage , America was confronting two superpower threats : Beijing 's increasingly bold advances in the South China Sea and Moscow 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine . Then , in October , the Israel-Hamas war added new urgency . US warships were drawn to the region , projecting force in case the conflict escalated . In short order , American vessels began intercepting long-range missiles that Iranian-supplied Yemeni rebels fired on Israel and on the ships themselves . When other Tehran-backed militias attacked US outposts in Iraq , Syria , and then Jordan , killing three service members in late January , it was apparent the reprisals from American fighter jets had not been a sufficient deterrent . President Biden , with carrier strike groups already in place , decided to retaliate forcefully , on multiple targets . <p> " When a single boomer goes out to sea " -- with up to 160 warheads -- " it does so as the sixth-largest nuclear nation on earth . " <p> In October , we 'd been slated to board a sub in , of all places , the Middle East . But when American vessels came under attack , our trip was scrubbed . " You 'd have been out at sea for months , " one of our handlers worried . In November , though , we were given short notice to fly to a Southern city in the US where we would be met , escorted to a ship , and then ferried to a boomer . A senior officer , we were told , was heading out to conduct an evaluation of a rookie submarine captain , and we would be along to observe . The sub would surface for a short time -- so as not to draw unwanted attention . We were to climb aboard and the ship would submerge . <p> To prepare , I had interviewed more than two dozen current officials responsible for US nuclear doctrine and warfare . And as I looked at the hulking slash on the horizon , the words of one naval captain resonated with me : " When a single boomer goes out to sea , it does so as the sixth-largest nuclear nation on earth . " <p> Now , literally in the middle of nowhere , we made our rendezvous . A lashing rain seemed to be coming at us sideways . But suddenly , as we approached the sub , the sun broke through . Idling on our starboard like some leviathan loomed the missile deck of the USS Wyoming . A multibillion-dollar behemoth that is slightly longer than the Washington Monument is tall , the ship can carry up to 160 thermonuclear warheads , roughly the same firepower as India , a country that has been stockpiling nuclear arms for half a century . <p> A launch detonator.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> The above-water " suitcase " used for communication between an officer and deckhands below.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> As wars -- hot and cold , visible and invisible -- were being waged on land and at sea , it felt like an opportune time to meet the men , the women , and the weapons system that , in Pentagon terms , " provide 24/7 deterrence to prevent catastrophic actions from our adversaries . " The military 's rationale for offering us access seemed clear . The brass , apparently , wanted to help get Americans accustomed to the increasingly real prospect of conflict with a genuinely powerful opponent . They wanted to humanize the otherwise inhuman -- some would say inhumane -- reality of nuclear deterrence . And , finally , they wanted to convey a message to China and Russia about US forces and their strategic capabilities , resolve , and , for the moment at least , superiority . <h> Sub Lord <p> As the ominous backstop to America 's national security , the Department of Defense relies on a triad : intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) , long-range bombers , and submarines . The latter are considered the triad 's least vulnerable leg and carry 70 percent of all deployed nuclear warheads in the inventory . Boomers are officially known as Ohio-class SSBNs -- Navy-speak for " submersible ship , ballistic , nuclear " -- and were built , as even the juniormost sailor will tell you ( without a hint of irony ) , to " preserve the peace " and , in the event of strategic attack , to inflict unimaginable destruction . " We are prepared to unleash hell , " Admiral William Houston told me , adding that , of course , " We never want to do it . Those sailors know if their weapon system is ever used , they are probably not coming home to their families . And so they take their business very , very seriously . It 's what we refer to as a no-fail mission . You are working directly for the president when you 're out there . " <p> Starting in 2021 , Houston , 55 , headed the US submarine force -- 25,000 strong , involved in the operation of 65 subs -- and the Allied Submarine Command , which made him the principal undersea-warfare adviser to all of NATO 's strategic commanders . Awarded his fourth star in December , he became director of the Navy and Energy Department 's nuclear naval reactor program , a position once held by Admiral Hyman Rickover , a towering if controversial figure who is considered the father of the nuclear navy . <p> While boomers may be the deadliest ships at sea , the sub command also operates Virginia-class hunter-killer subs ( SSNs ) , which track and are prepared to sink enemy subs and surface ships , as well as guided-missile subs ( SSGNs ) , among them the USS Florida , which in early November popped up in the Middle East . The Florida 's very public passage through the Suez Canal , Houston insisted , was a " message to remind people that you have an incredible warship right there that you ca n't do anything about . We 're telling our adversaries : You have to be aware of its destructive capability if leadership decides to use it . " This was no idle threat . In January , after myriad attacks by the Houthis -- the Yemen-based rebel army supported by Iran -- against vessels flying a variety of flags , American officials , in a tandem strike with the UK , ordered the Florida to launch Tomahawk missiles at Houthi targets . In February , after the Houthi assaults continued , two destroyers , the USS Carney and Gravely , hit more sites in Yemen . <p> " My predecessors , some of them called themselves Underlord , " Houston explained -- a reference to mythic characters in the multiverse -- " and that has a dark connotation . " The admiral added with a grin , " I 'm just waiting for somebody to give me some respect and call me Sub Lord . I 'm a huge Marvel fan . " His staff ribbingly slapped the moniker on his parking spot in front of his Norfolk , Virginia , headquarters . <p> Houston 's path to the Navy was unexpected . In high school in Buffalo , he and some buddies ditched lunch on a hot day to hang out in the college guidance office , the only spot with air-conditioning . They pretended to be flipping through ROTC applications when they were called on the carpet by an administrator who , as Houston recalled , told them that they could stay so long as they completed the paperwork . Houston wound up with an ROTC scholarship to Notre Dame and , during a monthlong voyage to Japan , fell in love with submarine culture . " So , yeah , I 'm in the Navy because I skipped lunch , " he deadpanned . Later , when we returned to the subject , he observed , " When people ask me why am I in the military , I go , ' Go to the Holocaust Museum in DC . There is evil in the world . There is pure , unadulterated evil . ' ? " <p> Two decades ago , as a deputy squadron commander , he helped integrate women into the all-male submarine service . The Wyoming , he noted , was an obvious early vessel to be chosen since its namesake was the first state to allow women 's suffrage . ( The goal , moving forward , is for every ship to be gender-agnostic in its commands and roles . ) <p> Nearly all Ohio-class subs are emblazoned with the name of a US state . The admiral spoke admiringly of the boat to which we 'd been assigned . " Wyoming is the most powerful warship ever created , " he told me . " It is the ultimate guarantor of our strategic deterrence . " Hidden in its hull are 20 Trident II D5 ballistic missiles tipped with independently targetable warheads , each with many times the destructive power of the bombs dropped on Japan in World War II . Tridents are so accurate , Houston said , they can hit a stadium on the other side of the globe . The central mission of the service 's 14 boomers is to clandestinely plumb the world 's oceans , waiting to respond if ever an enemy -- for whatever reason , including a fit of pique or miscalculation -- initiates a first strike . At that point , the president could decide to order the Wyoming , or one of its fellow subs , to launch in retaliation . <p> For further context , I dropped in on a Navy captain named Dan Packer . His assessment was even more blunt than Houston 's . " My job is to come up with ways to kill people and to find friends to help me kill people , " he said when we first met . Until October , he was the director of plans and policy for the sub force -- responsible for writing the playbook for undersea warfare -- and has stayed on as a top civilian adviser . During his career , he served on four classes of submarine before returning to his alma mater , the Naval Academy , as dean of math and science . The man is a bit of a legend -- a sailor and a scholar who literally grew up in the shadow of the atomic enterprise in a small South Carolina town just down the road from the Savannah River Site , where , since the 1950s , reactors have churned out plutonium and tritium for warheads . <p> In a rainstorm , the vessel briefly emerges to meet a support ship.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> On 9/11 , Packer , then a lieutenant commander , was the engineer officer on the USS Ohio , an SSBN that was in the Pacific for a worldwide war game . Early that morning , the captain took to the PA to prepare the crew for the drill . Thirty minutes later , Packer said , the commander picked up the mic again to say , " Cancel the exercise . The United States is under attack . " Over the next few hours , the Ohio received fragmentary reports : The twin towers had been hit ; the Pentagon had been struck ( true ) and destroyed ( not true ) . They also understood that the president was airborne -- another portentous sign to those who wait on orders from the National Command Authority , which the president directs . The Ohio , Packer recalled , began the march from DEFCON five . To four . To three . " You take actions to make the platform more ready to complete its mission . You open safes and look at and access war plans that are normally not known or accessible . " When I asked how unusual those actions were , he replied , " I 'd never seen those things . Ever . " Sailors on the Ohio began to speculate about who was behind the attacks . " The consensus on the boat was that it was Iran . And , as far as we were concerned , they were going to be radioactive glass , " Packer remarked , painting an image of the hellscape that would result if the Tridents were launched . " If you ever wonder if people would be ready to employ these weapons , the answer is yes . " ( When I mentioned to a senior national security official that I was meeting with the country 's top nuclear strategists , his eyes went wide . " Get ready for some straight talk , " he advised . " They never let these guys out of the cage . They are n't supposed to talk to anyone . So if you have them , expect to get an earful . " ) <p> Packer , like so many others interviewed for this story , told me he is bracing for a very different battle than the ones fought in the aftermath of 9/11. " 2027 is the year Xi Jinping said they need to be ready to go to war , " he noted , referencing China 's president . " We use that as a benchmark . " With that date only three years off , Packer is now the sub force 's civilian lead on AUKUS , a trilateral security pact through which the US and UK are helping Australia field a fleet of nuclear subs in an attempt to check China 's ambitions . He is also working on incorporating AI into aircraft that scour the South China Sea for acoustic signatures emanating from Beijing 's subs . <p> While public attention is focused on Ukraine and the Middle East , the Western submarine community is busy analyzing the threat posed by China 's industrial base , which is churning out surface ships and undersea vessels at an astounding clip . The Chinese navy , in fact , is the world 's largest , consisting of more than 370 vessels . American shipyards simply can not keep pace . <p> The good news , Packer and others believe , is that for all its capacity , Chinese naval prowess , when it comes to submarines and seasoned sailors , is lacking . While that could change , it is unlikely to do so , many experts contend , on Xi 's timeline . That gives America 's so-called Silent Service an advantage . " In the Taiwan fight , " Packer maintained , " we 're prepared to go into the jaws of the Chinese undersea forces and take them all out . " All the surface ships as well . <h> Black Hull , Orange Tubes <p> On the voyage out to the Wyoming , I was accompanied by Commander David Burke , 42 , the deputy of Submarine Squadron 20 , a seat Houston once occupied . Burke was coming out to conduct a spot inspection to make sure the crew and its new commanding officer ( CO ) were up to snuff . <p> An empty torpedo tube.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> The ship 's sail.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Burke would know . In February 2022 , while in charge of an Atlantic fleet boomer , the USS Rhode Island , he received an urgent message that Russia was invading Ukraine . If the US made certain moves , Vladimir Putin warned , forces might be met with a nuclear response . " That was a turning point , " he recalled , " a serious reminder of why our job is so important on an SSBN . " Months later , when Burke surfaced the Rhode Island in Gibraltar , the meaning was clear : America 's boomers can show up anywhere , any time . Last July , the USS Kentucky , a sister ship assigned to the Pacific , made a port call in Busan , South Korea , the first such visit in more than 40 years . <p> As our support ship approached the Wyoming , Burke , a plainspoken Illinoisan with piercing blue eyes , was candid about the sacrifices submariners make by being out of touch for long stretches . " I have an eight-year-old son and a four-year-old daughter . Through her fourth birthday I was probably gone 50 percent of her life -- so it 's tough , " he conceded . " If I 'm going to be away from my family , I want it to be both professionally rewarding and challenging . " He was less candid about his accomplishments . Only later did I learn that Admiral Lisa Franchetti , the first woman to head naval operations in the service 's 248-year history , had just given him the coveted Stockdale Award , presented annually to the most inspiring leaders in the Navy . In short , the sub force command was sending a golden boy to put the Wyoming through its paces -- with a Vanity Fair reporter and photographer in tow . The new CO was about to be tested in real time and on the record . <p> After a night and a morning at sea , our embarkation had arrived . As whitecaps crashed against the Wyoming 's hull , Burke went aboard first . I followed , traversing a rickety drawbridge from ship to ship , aided by a line of sailors fanned out across the sub 's vast deck . Some were toting automatic weapons , a precaution when a boomer is on the surface . A rescue diver was ready if a swell took one of us overboard . The ship 's slightly curved surface , like a giant whale 's , was matte black , covered with special material that absorbs sound waves and masks the craft 's sonar signature . The hull itself was punctuated with two rows of 12 round lids , like giant manhole covers . <p> As massive as the trunks of redwoods , the missile tubes are ubiquitous ; the bathrooms and crew quarters are situated right beside them . <p> Upon reaching the hatch , I carefully descended several vertical ladders that were slick with sea spray . Stepping off , it felt like I was stepping back in time . I was surrounded by walls with exposed pipes , old-school circuitry , panels full of analog dials , switches , and gauges . It felt part boiler room , part brewery , part mad scientist lab from a 1950s sci-fi film . The explanation : When the devices on this class of sub were devised in the ' 70s and ' 80s , they were quite modern . Some have been upgraded ; others remain unchanged ( one uses a crank ! ) because they 're reliable , durable , and easy to replace at sea . Here and there , I passed men and women in coveralls who were receiving instructions on throwback speakers and talking into vintage telephones . Save for the advanced systems in the control and sonar rooms ( bristling with screens labeled " secret " and " top secret " ) , everything about the boat -- down to the Wyoming 's stated mission ( to be " on scene and unseen " ) -- harkened back to the Cold War . Maybe , I thought , we were being cast in the sequel . Or maybe the original never ended . <p> My first impressions were predictable : The ship seemed cramped , with narrow passageways . I was surprised , though , that the boomer 's four decks , with 14-foot ceilings , also made it seem cavernous , even airy , in certain spots . Offsetting the retro-tech vibe were odd trinkets hanging from the walls : cowboy boots , lariats , spurs . This was , after all , the Wyoming , and as a way of paying homage to the state -- and providing a touch of home -- these voyagers had gone out of their way to set a Western tone to the decor . The ship 's motto , I soon discovered , was " Cowboy Up . " And ever since the boat was commissioned in 1996 , crew members have made pilgrimages to the state , meeting officials and supporters and taking in the rodeo . <p> Missile keys adorn lanyards.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Missile tubes.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> In short order , we were cruising at dozens of miles an hour and depths of several hundred feet . And , unavoidably , the missiles remained front of mind . Every few steps I encountered what looked like curved walls , painted orange . These were the missile tubes , as massive as the trunks of redwoods . ( An arms control pact with the Russians dictates that only 20 of the 24 missile tubes can be operable . ) I also toured the torpedo room where the Mark 48s -- with their 650-pound high-explosive warheads -- are stored . <p> The missile tubes were ubiquitous -- so much so that the bathrooms and crew quarters were situated right beside them . In fact , the compartment where I would spend the night -- which contained six small , curtained-off bunks , as if on a train 's sleeper car -- was effectively wedged between two Tridents . <h> Chessmaster <p> Those orange tubes -- those missiles -- were the reason I was now hours from shore . But to understand their use , I wanted to meet the man who was in day-to-day control of them . And to that end , a month before my voyage , I paid a visit to landlocked Omaha . <p> There , I was invited into the buzzing corridors of the US Strategic Command ( STRATCOM ) , the nerve center of America 's nuclear arsenal , located at Offutt Air Force Base . This is the place that produced the Enola Gay and Bockscar , the B-29s that dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki ; the place where President George W. Bush had taken temporary refuge on 9/11 . <p> When I arrived , I spotted mechanics attending to two aircraft on the tarmac . One was an E-6B Mercury , a nondescript plane that , if needed , can serve as both a communications relay for ballistic-missile subs like the Wyoming and as an airborne launch control for land-based ICBMs . Nearby was a heavily militarized version of a Boeing 747 , the E-4B Nightwatch , which houses the National Airborne Operations Center , which , according to its mission statement , " provides a highly survivable command , control and communications center ... in case of national emergency or destruction of ground command and control centers . " Its nickname : the Doomsday Plane . <p> STRATCOM -- with its 150,000 service members and civilians -- is led by an Air Force four-star , General Anthony Cotton , who ushered me through his sprawling outer office , swarming with airmen , sailors , soldiers , and Marines , before taking me into his inner sanctum , a hushed , wood-paneled oasis in the eye of the storm . Cotton , along with Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin III and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs General Charles Brown Jr. , is part of a trio of Black leadership atop America 's national-security pyramid . And it was a point of pride , clearly , that of all the Black four-stars , as Cotton told me , " there 's only been 10 in the history of the Air Force , and I 'm number 10 . " <p> I asked what drew him to the service . " Simple , " he said , walking over to a display case containing a folded flag with a picture next to it . " That 's my dad . He joined in 1942 . As you can see , he was a diamond-wearing African American that was in World War II in the Army Air Corps , made the transition to the Air Force , and retired as a chief master sergeant in 1974 . So I came out of the womb as a member of the military . " He was emotional as he recalled how , in 2000 , his father passed away a month to the day after his mother . " He did n't see me make lieutenant colonel , but I buried with him my promotion recommendation form . " <p> I found Cotton , from Goldsboro , North Carolina , to be open , gregarious , and quick to laugh -- traits that might seem at odds with the solemnity of his mission . " I do n't want to walk the halls of the Pentagon and when people see me , they 're like , ' Oh , there 's General Cotton , the nuclear guy , ' ? " he said . <p> Cotton , 60 , recounted how he 'd first felt the weight of command as a 22-year-old on his inaugural ride out to a missile field in Minot , North Dakota . " You 're jumping in that Suburban , " he said , " knowing that you 're responsible to execute , under presidential authorities , the most powerful weapon on the face of the globe . You see the humming of the launch control center and you see 10 green lights and know that on the other side of that green light is a Minuteman III , with warheads on board . It all becomes real at that point . " Cotton would eventually hold a string of lofty leadership posts , most recently running the Air Force Global Strike Command , responsible for the country 's bombers and ICBMs . <p> Commander Jeremy Garcia , referred to as " captain " by his shipmates , looks through the periscope.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> His job as STRATCOM chief : preparing and , if necessary , turning to the tools at his disposal , from conventional long-range strike weapons and multiplatform nuclear arms to joint electromagnetic spectrum operations , which involve exploiting and attacking enemy frequencies ( as well as protecting our own ) . Being able to provide those options to the commander in chief " is what I do , " he explained , before taking stock of the geopolitical moment . " That 's important , especially now as we see the threat vectors to rules-based international order . " Translation : Over the second half of the last century , Western national security officials were preoccupied with trying to keep one adversary ( the USSR ) in check , even as the dueling nuclear powers ratified landmark arms control treaties . With those efforts now in eclipse and nuclear proliferation a chilling reality , America and its allies are currently contending with two near-peer opponents , Russia and China , as well as their own set of allies with nuclear aspirations , including North Korea , Iran , and , by extension , the Axis of Resistance -- a term that encompasses armed groups like the Houthis in Yemen , Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon and Syria , and the Popular Mobilization Forces in Iraq . <p> That 's quite a roster . Who , I wondered , did Cotton have on speed dial ? He chortled at the question before turning it back around , " Who do you think ? " He then showed me a bank of phones with buttons for , among others , Biden , Austin , Brown , the leadership of the US intelligence community , and the 10 combatant commanders who , along with Cotton , command and deploy the nation 's armed forces . " Are you the guy nobody wants to hear from ? " I asked , half in jest . " Yeah , actually it does kind of suck , " he said with a smile . <p> Shortly before my visit , the Florida had made its presence known in the Suez . Only hours after I departed , the B-21 Raider , which will replace the B-2 as a strategic bomber , made its first public flight . Cotton was eager to convey the range of options he can summon if required : missiles , bombers , subs . " For me , being the chessmaster , and being able to offer those effects , if warranted , is incredibly important . Because at the end of the day , I 'm supposed to be able to hold people at risk , and I can do that with the triad . " <p> Still , the chessmaster does n't sleep soundly . " Even at the height of the Cold War , you had conversations with your adversaries , " Cotton said , alluding to the red phone , a hotline set up in 1963 between Washington and Moscow that allowed dialogue and de-escalation in times of crisis . " We 're not seeing that with China . I would love to have my counterpart come visit me to understand what we 're doing so there 's no miscalculation . " ( In December , Joint Chiefs chairman Brown spoke with a top Chinese general about reestablishing ad hoc communication , which Beijing had suspended after the US shot down a Chinese spy balloon . ) <h> Sub Species <p> In the Wyoming 's wardroom I met Jeremy Garcia , the sub 's new CO . Like others who hold the rank of commander and helm a sub , he is addressed as " captain " on board . Burke was cordial to Garcia , but he was also there to give an unvarnished evaluation . So he hung back a bit . <p> Garcia , 44 , tall and bearing an uncanny resemblance to a young Tim Robbins , had not been given much notice about our visit or the decision to pair it with Burke 's drop-by . But he seemed like the kind who rolled with the punches . He 'd already had his trial by fire : His first week on active patrol at sea , Hamas and Israel had gone to war , and the Wyoming was prepped in case it might be tagged for duty there , if only to surface and convey a strategic message . Garcia was unflustered and welcoming . Off the bat , he urged me to speak with any of the 163 sailors on board -- without any PR minders . I then accompanied him around his ship . <p> In the command center , sailors dive and steer the ship as an officer looks on.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> A Bellevue , Washington , native , he 'd enlisted in 1998 as a nuclear engineering and electronics technician . He made his bones on fast-attack and ballistic-missile subs before finally assuming the Wyoming 's reins . The best part of the gig , he told me , is " growing an amazingly talented and proficient team of warriors . " <p> Talented , indeed . The threshold for a billet on a boomer is , in part , one 's range . Crew members must be comfortable spending months in a confined space ( typically 70 to 100 days ) , pitching in on various assignments , and being knowledgeable about nuclear physics . Before submariners receive their insignia -- a patch or pin showing a sub flanked by marine creatures -- they must " earn their fish " : demonstrating proficiency as first responders across departments , ever mindful of the threat posed by fire or a breach in the hull . Cooks , for example , can serve as EMTs if a sailor ever needs treatment by the onboard medic , who runs what amounts to an urgent care clinic . The wardroom can be converted into an operating theater . ( With elaborate systems for swapping in crews and rations , subs , unless they require maintenance , can conceivably remain at sea , indefinitely , during times of heightened tension . ) <p> Walking the ship , I met mariners who were Asian , Black , Latino , immigrants , first-generation Americans , third-generation sailors , and so on . This was a point of pride for the captain and the sub force . And yet the culture has become so ingrained that merely inquiring about it -- or the 13-year effort to integrate women on subs -- was met with eye rolls . A distinct message was coming through to me : The perils and impediments of life underwater trivialized any fissures that might otherwise exist on land . " A submarine is always trying to kill you and our job is trying not to die , " asserted Jonathan Omillian , a salty missile technician , who noted that crew members were united in purpose . " The reason that we are out here is so that we have a place to come home to . We are pretty much the big guys standing up to the bullies saying , ' Hey ' -- excuse my language -- ' Fuck off . Do n't fuck with us . We are bigger . We are better . ' ? " <p> His ship 's leader has a command philosophy that might seem counterintuitive to those on shore . " I 'm a big fan of pushing responsibility down to the lowest level , " Garcia said , " and the lowest level does not mean rank . It means technical expertise and experience . So if that means a very important program can be run by a first-tour individual of any rank , then I 'm fine with that -- as long as they own it . " <p> The job of diving and steering , for example , is not in the captain 's remit . He has put that chore in the hands of the juniormost people ( albeit with a senior officer seated behind them ) . Garcia , like a dozen other COs I spoke to , takes people who are too young to legally drink , metaphorically drops them in the deep end , and says , " Swim . " True , other branches of the military imbue airmen , soldiers , and Marines with outsize responsibility . But I am hard-pressed to think of another mission as daunting as testing a teenager 's mettle underwater with a nuclear reactor in back and thermonuclear warheads in front . <p> Beyond their duties , the Gen Z'ers -- and the millennials who supervise them -- must contend with a life that is practically monastic . They are completely removed from meaningful connectivity , including social media . Their only contact with the outside world involves infrequent ( and heavily monitored ) emails with family when the sub is at a depth and a posture that permit it . There is also little privacy beyond the confines of a draped bunk that can feel like a coffin . Deprived of many other creature comforts , sailors can avail themselves of exercise gear , which is spread around the boat , including treadmills and free weights -- but not when the sub is running silent so as to evade detection . <p> When I first entered the command-and-control room , called " the conn , " a young ensign named Kirsten Barber was moving with purpose between banks of displays and the sub 's twin periscopes . She was standing watch , scanning for vessels -- on the surface or submerged -- that might approach the sub or compromise its position . " Knowing that we 're out here basically keeping the entire United States safe , " she told me , " is pretty awesome , actually . " Barber answers to the nickname Chop , a title submariners assign the chief supply officer , a job vital to the ship 's operation and the crew 's morale . <p> " Some of the smartest people I 've met are younger than me , " Barber said , gesturing toward the stern . " I 'm 23 and there are some people back aft running a nuclear reactor that just blow me away every day . They have to be smart to be on this boat . " I was reminded of a conversation I had when I first visited sub force command . Over lunch , a young Annapolis grad -- an astrophysicist who evidently has a couple of satellites named after her -- discussed her plans to possibly switch gears and become an astronaut . She was reciting , rather than bragging about , her time at school and at sea , when a captain sitting next to her piped in wryly , " I have the same credentials . Other than the satellites . " <p> At one point on the trip , I found myself marveling over , of all things , a biscuit . Not only was it gluten-free , it was delicious . When I shared my surprise with Barber , she beamed . Of all her roles , none looms larger than overseeing the galley . She took me on a tour of the cavernous refrigeration and freezer compartments that are manned by " Jack of the Dust , " the sobriquet of the sailor -- bedecked in winterized gear -- in charge of provisions storage . <p> Virtually everyone I interviewed on the Wyoming raved about the food , which is an atypical reaction when it comes to military chow . There is a reason for that : Among the ship 's secret weapons is Culinary Specialist Chief Petty Officer Earl White . Raised in Granville , Ohio , White followed in his grandfather 's steps , starting his career as a butcher before going to culinary school . In 2009 , he joined the Navy and served for six years on Burke 's old boat , the Rhode Island , before taking a land-based assignment . " I did four years at Camp David , " he recounted while kneading dough in the galley . ( The Navy also runs the White House dining room , famously referred to as The Mess . ) " I did two years of Obama , two years of Trump . It was an incredible experience . " White not only served first families and VIPs , he also earned prestigious gourmet certifications . While we were underway , he whipped up bisques and beignets . <p> For one lunch , we had a Mexican spread ; even at sea they called it Taco Tuesday . I shared meals in the wardroom with Burke , Garcia , his deputy Ben Reed , and several junior officers . We dined on oxtail , salmon , and winter vegetables -- served on proper Navy china . ( After supper , Burke and Garcia teamed up in a fierce , smack-talking game of cribbage against other Navy visitors . ) <p> But the main event , as all of us knew , was how Garcia would be judged by his cribbage comrade , Burke . Top officials can issue all the orders they want , but someone has to push the buttons , quite literally . And so the climactic moment aboard the Wyoming came when Garcia and company engaged in a command-and-control exercise ( CCX ) , replicating the exact , and exacting , procedures required to deploy the sub 's deadly payload . <p> For much of the voyage , I 'd noticed that Burke , silent but affable , would appear and then drift away to assess crew members on their navigation skills , their weapons preparedness , and their engineering prowess . Now , with Burke watching from the wings , the CCX commenced . <p> As planned , a simulated emergency action message ( EAM ) came in from the National Command Authority . The message was received by the communications team , led by 27-year-old Lieutenant Michael Gomez , whom everyone calls Commo . He was quickly joined by another junior officer and , using their thumbs and forefingers , they jointly grasped the EAM -- a plastic object about the size of a playing card -- and the men , facing each other , walked sideways across the conn . The reason for this unusual choreography : The nuclear command-and-control process requires two-person integrity , theoretically ensuring that there be redundant affirmation should a worst-case EAM ever be received -- until the unimaginable moment a missile might be released . <p> When the pair reached the spot where Garcia was standing , they could see that resting on his hip were scores of keys that were wrapped around his frame like a tangle of Christmas lights . " The CO has lanyards that contain keys needed to carry out very specific processes to support any missile launch , " a senior Navy officer explained . " These keys are part of a nuclear safeguard process and are used in various locations around the SSBN to enable a launch when , and only when , a launch order has been validated to be from the US president -- as he or she is the only person that can authorize a launch from an SSBN . " <p> With his executive officer standing beside him , the captain authenticated the message , checking it against a codebook to ensure that neither an outside party nor an onboard subversive had intercepted and changed it in any way . Garcia then uttered a phrase that , were it not a drill , might irrevocably lead to the alteration of some portion of the planet : " I concur with missilization . " <p> Over in the sub 's Missile Control Center , the weapons officer , Lieutenant William Zupke and his deputy , Lieutenant Junior Grade Noelle Gill , were hunched behind sailors who peered at consoles displaying the status of every missile tube . Armed guards milled about . " Standing by for fire order , " someone said . Over the loudspeaker came the reply , " Concur with fire order . " <p> The ritual -- the call-and-response , the presiding officiant , the two curates holding what amounted to a death wafer -- had all the hallmarks and mystery of ceremonies performed in houses of worship or secret societies . In a way , the CCX had the trappings of a sacred rite turned on its head : a military liturgy that reinforced the profound implications of a potentially apocalyptic process . <p> Nothing was fired , of course . The keys inserted were effectively blanks . The entire exercise took only a matter of minutes . But the point was made : Not one of the submariners even flinched . All behaved as if , given the order , they would have had sufficient nerve to perform the task required . <p> A couple of weeks later , I asked Burke for his assessment of Garcia and his team . His response sounded like something Rickover might have said following the maiden 1960 voyage of the very first boomer , the USS George Washington . Burke felt the captain and his sailors performed well , " demonstrated tenacity , " and fulfilled " their mission of strategic deterrence and readiness to execute the president 's orders should deterrence fail . " <h> Before Dawn <p> At 5 a.m. on the day of our departure , I climbed up to the bridge -- the highest position on the ship -- to join Gomez , who stood watch in the hours before dawn . " Every time we 're on the surface , I come up here , " he said . His father is in US Special Forces ; his wife serves on a surface ship . Two flights down , in the conn , Lieutenant Jeanny Sanger , a fellow Annapolis grad ( and Ultimate Frisbee club teammate ) , was on duty . <p> The Wyoming at an undisclosed location in the Atlantic . Along the length of the four-story ship run an array of missile tubes , their circular exit doors ominously visible on the hull.Photograph by Philip Montgomery . <p> Suddenly , a loud voice squawked from a speaker . The Wyoming 's suite of sophisticated sensors had spotted something . " He 's about 25 miles away , " Gomez said with binoculars at the ready . A surface ship ? I inquired . " Yeah , hopefully , it 's not a submarine , " he responded . <p> After we sailed on for a few minutes , he broke the silence and spoke about his peers on the Navy 's other subs : " The fast-attacks get out and they get to do all the cool stuff every day . We do n't really get to do any of that . But it kind of does feel like you 're doing your mission when we 're out here and things are getting hot in the world . " <h> Adam Ciralsky <h> Contributing Editor <p> Adam Ciralsky is a critically-acclaimed writer , film director , and television producer whose body of work has garnered three Emmys ( and an additional six nominations ) ; a Peabody ( for Significant and Meritorious Achievement in Broadcasting ) ; a Polk ( for Outstanding Network Television Reporting ) ; a duPont ( for Breaking News and Sustained Coverage ) ; a Loeb ... Read more <p> Donald Trump 's nominee for secretary of defense is a conservative culture warrior , a central-casting alpha male who believes in guns , God , and the primacy of the family unit . The story of his first marriage , which sources say met a contentious end after he admitted to multiple infidelities , holds a key place in Hegseth 's ambition-fueled rise . <p> Donald Trump 's embattled defense secretary pick is making his case to senators -- and on Megyn Kelly 's show -- amid mounting misconduct allegations . VF caught up with GOP lawmakers supportive of Hegseth , still withholding judgment , or downright skeptical of his chances at confirmation . <p> Russia 's ally Syria has fallen to rebel forces . Its war in Ukraine has claimed 1 million casualties . On the defensive , the nation has resorted to a shadow war of saboteurs and spies , hoping to destabilize its neighbors.
