<p> In Asif Kapadia 's latest documentary , " 2073 , " Ivanka Trump celebrates her 30th year as leader of a nightmarish fascist police state that was once America . The docudrama blends interviews with journalists and archival real-life news footage with a fictional story starring Samatha Morton to tell a story about a dystopic future that does n't feel too far off . <p> The film is inspired by Chris Marker 's 1962 featurette " La Jet ? e , " about a time traveler who risks his life to change the course of history and save the future of humanity . " 2073 " follows Morton , who plays a survivor of a near-future global catastrophe caused by AI , climate change , anti-democratic authoritarianism and technocratic mass surveillance . Morton 's character lives in a nightmarish America led by a fascist police state . <h> Related Stories <p> " I felt like , what are the genres that people go to the cinema and see , " says Kapadia . " They love horror films . So I thought , I 'll give you a horror film . " <h> Popular on Variety <p> The Trump family , the Murdoch family , Vladimir Putin , Benjamin Netanyahu , Xi Jinping , Mohammed Bin Salman , Narendra Modi , the Koch brothers , Elon Musk , Mark Zuckerberg , Jeff Bezos , Peter Thiel and many more are featured throughout the docu . The past is pieced together using footage from approximately 60 different countries . In the opening sequence of the doc , clips of the recent devastation in Gaza are used to reveal an earth-shattering catastrophe . <p> " This film came out of my gut instincts and a feeling about something that 's going on globally , " says Kapadia . " The most terrifying things in the film are fact . The most shocking things are being said by real people who are actually now in power in this country . " <p> Backed by Neon , Double Agent , and Film4 , " 2073 " debuted at the Venice Film Festival in September and will be released in theaters on Dec. 27 . <p> Kapadia , who won the Best Feature Documentary Oscar in 2016 for " Amy , " spoke with Variety about " 2073 " ahead of the film 's theatrical release . <p> Members of the Trump family are mentioned in the film , which was made long before the 2024 presidential election . If Donald Trump had not won the election , would you have edited the Trump mentions out of the film ? <p> Pretty much all of the film 's financiers and execs who are from the U.S. at some point said , " Why have you got Trump in the movie ? Get rid of him . " He was old news when I began working on the movie . But the film itself is a time capsule about now . So even if Trump did n't get reelected , his presidency happened . So , I refused to remove any Trump references . That sequence where Ivanka Trump is celebrating her 30th year in power is there because the idea of a two-term American presidency , I do n't think , will be around forever . <p> Did you make " 2073 " a sci-fi horror doc to attract audiences who would n't go to a movie theater to watch a documentary ? <p> Absolutely . With all of my films , particularly the docs that I 've made like " Senna " and " Amy , " I want them to break out of the kind of box of the documentary . I want my films to be for the big screen . I want people to be in a dark room and put away their cell phones so that they can experience something and then talk about it . I always feel that my films should be as cinematic as possible , and I do n't want them to feel like they are meant for television . So , the whole intention with every film I make , because I 'm from that generation , is to make it for the big screen and for it to feel like a movie and to compete with every other movie that 's out there . <p> Is the hope that audiences will watch " 2073 " and try to make a change ? <p> If people are comfortable , nothing changes . Change comes from being afraid . From worrying and from realizing we have to do something . Some people think , " It 's not our problem . It 's someone else 's problem . I 'm fine . " The aim of the film is to shock and scare people to get them to act . That 's the idea . <p> What actions would you recommend taking ? <p> In the film we talk about what life used to be like and where we are heading , and then there 's a bit in-between , which is like the boiling frog in hot water . We are that frog . We are in boiling water right now , and it 's getting hotter in terms of the climate , democracy , journalism , surveillance , and tech . All of that is happening right now . So we have to start doing something . If you are really lost for words and do n't know what to do , then I would say the key thing about the film is that it 's also an ode to journalism . The journalists that we feature who are in the film -- look them up . Read their books . Read their articles . Understand what they stand for , and they will give you the solutions . <p> You began your career as a narrative filmmaker . You could have made " 2073 " a sci-fi fiction movie . Why did you decide to make a hybrid doc ? <p> Because I 'd still be begetting notes on the screenplay , and everything would be out of date . The thing about fiction is something happens , and then they turn it into a movie , and I wanted to make a film before it happened . This film is coming out while it 's happening . That 's why I fell slightly out of love with fiction ; as a process , it 's very conservative . It 's loads of notes , loads of development , and loads of going round and round in circles . Then you are waiting for four years to cast the film . I like flipping it on its head . Also , I find that working in nonfiction and working in docs on a smaller budget , with a smaller crew and team , and with fewer executives , lets me follow my instincts . <p> Were you surprised , given the current docu market that Neon took on this film ? <p> A lot of distributors just do n't want to touch politics . They do n't want to go anywhere near anything political . They do n't want to piss off any world leaders because it might affect where their service is available , let 's just say . So I had the dream team because I wanted " 2073 " to be theatrical , and the people who came on board and believed in me have been there all the way through supporting that vision .
