<p> INTERVIEW : Vybz Kartel has remained one of the most prolific artists of our time , even during his incarceration . The " Fever " artist details his upcoming performance at the Jamaica National Stadium ( including two secret high-profile guests ) , his first time hearing Skillibeng , current musical inspiration , and why Lil Wayne is the greatest lyricist in his books . <p> The comet has officially landed . After 13 years , countless singles and mixtapes , and a legend that grew exponentially in his physical absence , Vybz Kartelwalked out of prison a free man in July . It was a surreal moment in a year filled with twists and turns , especially since it felt like the life sentence he received marked a dead end in his career . However , that was n't the case . Even while incarcerated , Vybz Kartel maintained a prolific output ( which earned him a nomination at the 2025 Grammy Awards ) and kept his fanbase well-fed with plenty of music while his influence expanded across the globe . A new crop of superstars emerged during this time -- both in dancehall and beyond -- that he directly inspired . <p> As we approach the new year , Vybz Kartel is back on the road and enjoying every minute of it . On December 31st , he 'll ring in the new year with the highly-anticipated Freedom Street Concert , produced by Downsound Entertainment -- the team behind Jamaica 's largest annual musical festival , Sumfest . It will mark his first performance in 13 years , a moment he says he 's been prepared for well before his release . <p> " I 've always been ready , mentally , because that 's the determination that Vybz Kartel has , " he tells HotNewHipHop over a Zoom call from the bank . " I mean , I 've been in prison for 13 years fighting for my freedom , fighting for my health , fighting for my children , fighting to reclaim the spot that I left . So mentally , I 'm prepared . Physically , we 're ready , as well . 99% there . It 's going to be amazing . Like , it 's literally a three-hour performance . " <p> He likens the upcoming concert to something you 'd see from Taylor Swift or Madonna . It will be equipped with a stage in the center of the Jamaica National Stadium and a host of special guests , including Popcaan , Shatta Wale , Masicka , Spice , Skillibeng , Tommy Lee Sparta , Chronic Law , Shawn Storm , Lisa Hype , Sheba , Gaza Indu , Likkle Addi , and Likkle Vybz . <p> " I mean , this is Vybz Kartel , the epitome of what I represent , " he says of the line-up . " Not just me being at the table , but bringing everyone with me , as I 've always done , you know what I mean ? Because we learned it from the great Bounty Killer . We learned that when you 're eating , others have to eat , as well . " <p> However , it would n't be complete without some surprise guests , one of which includes Busta Rhymes , as well as , " someone special from Canada to represent and we also want to bring someone special from New York as well , from the Bronx . " We recently caught up with Vybz Kartel to discuss his release from prison , his everlasting influence on artists like Drake and Cardi B , and reclaiming his throne in dancehall . <p> Tickets for the Freedom Street Concert are available at **28;1801;TOOLONG and at retail outlets across Jamaica . For those who wo n't be able to attend in person , you could also access the global livestream for $29.75 , then it's$39.75 starting Saturday , December 29 . Livestream begins at 9:30 pm ET on Dec 31 , 2024 . <p> This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity . <p> HotNewHipHop : You 're the king of dancehall and maintained that position throughout incarceration . How does it feel to physically reclaim your throne ? <p> Vybz Kartel : I mean , how does it feel to physically reclaim the throne as King of Dancehall ? I mean , it 's an amazing feeling . I mean , just to be free after 13 years is an amazing feeling , but to come back and sit on the throne and get that reception from the fans , it 's an amazing feeling . It 's very humbling , as well . Because come on , it 's been 13 years , and people 's attention span is not that long , so it 's an amazing feeling , and I feel great . <p> The Freedom Concert on NYE will mark your first official live concert in over a decade . What should be expected ? <p> I mean , what I want people to expect from me on the Freedom Street Concert is what Vybz Kartel has always been giving the people : the unexpected . I mean , not to give too much away , but this concert is going to be amazing . Not only will the people be able to celebrate with Vybz Kartel , but there will be a host of high-end , top-level entertainers on the stage with me . <p> And , also the stage itself -- trust me , people are going to witness something they 've never witnessed before . This stage alone is like ... the setup is what a Madonna would use , a Taylor Swift . It 's like that level . So just the stage , the performance , the amount of hit songs that are going to be delivered on that night -- trust me , it 's going to be amazing . The fans are in for a treat that they 'll never forget . <p> I mean , this is Vybz Kartel , the epitome of what I represent . Not just me being at the table , but bringing everyone with me , as I 've always done , you know what I mean ? Because we learned it from the Great Bounty Killer . We learned that when you 're eating , others have to eat , as well . So that 's what this means to me . And I mean , I brought Popcaan . Remember , he 's originally from the Gaza . Tommy Lee , Sheba , Gaza Indu , my kids -- they 're all from the Gaza . Skillibeng , influenced by Kartel . La Boss , influenced by Kartel . So it 's a culmination of what Vybz Kartel has always envisioned : the unity , the love , and that 's what we 're bringing to the people at Freedom Street . <p> As for any special guests , can you give us a hint of who it might be ? <p> I mean , as it relates to special guests on the night , obviously , you know there 's going to be Busta Rhymes from New York ; Shatta Wale . And we definitely want to bring someone special from Canada to represent and we also want to bring someone special from New York as well , from the Bronx . So without giving too much away , just know it 's going to be craaazy . Trust me . <p> Photo Credit : ADDI LENS film crew <p> One of your final performances , if not your final performance , before your arrest was in Trinidad . With how long you 've been away from the stage , how have you been mentally and physically preparing for the Freedom Street Concert ? <p> I 've been mentally and physically preparing for the Freedom Street Concert in more ways than one . I mean , I 'm in the gymnasium , working out . I do yoga as well , and I do my nutrition program . I 'm on a nutrition program as well , so it 's plant-based . The only exception is we do the protein shake . So the physical training is on point . Like I said , the yoga is there , and just mentally , I 'm ready . I 've always been ready , mentally , because that 's the determination that Vybz Kartel has . I mean , I 've been in prison for 13 years fighting for my freedom , fighting for my health , fighting for my children , fighting to reclaim the spot that I left . So mentally , I 'm prepared . Physically , we 're ready , as well . 99% there . It 's going to be amazing . Like , it 's literally a three-hour performance . <p> You were n't lying when you said it was going to be Taylor Swift-level . <p> Exactly laughs , exactly . It 's definitely Taylor Swift-level , I 'm telling you . Like high energy , big stage in the center of the stadium . I do n't even want to give too much away but trust me , people are going to love it . It 's a memorable moment . <p> What 's your reaction when you see the success of artists like Popcaan , Spice , and Skillibeng ? <p> It 's an amazing feeling . I could never be prouder . It 's an amazing feeling to see the Popcaan , to see Skillibeng , to see Spice take dancehall to that super international level , knowing that I had a hand in these artists ' careers , especially as it relates to Popcaan , because he came around me as a kid , you know ? So I feel so proud , not just for myself but for what he 's doing for Jamaica , for dancehall music , taking it to that next level . Spice , you know , she 's my sister . We grew up together in Portmore so that 's a different feeling on its own . <p> Skillibeng , I mean , he admits Vybz Kartel is his biggest influence , and to be honest , before I even knew that , the first time I heard Skillibeng , I was like , " Who the f*ck is this guy ? Like , how does he rhyme like that ? " In other words , when I came out , how people used to think about me , that 's how I think about Skillibeng . Like bro , how does he do that ? So the feeling is an amazing feeling . I feel proud , I feel overwhelmed , and it 's great for the culture , it 's great for the country . So , yeah , it is what it is . <p> Your sons are also artists now . What 's the feeling like , just being in the studio with your kids and seeing them carry your legacy and the influence you have through their music ? <p> I mean , seeing my sons elevate to a level where they can financially take care of themselves through music -- because they have always loved music since they were children -- it 's an amazing feeling . And to be in the studio with them when I came home ... bro , I literally broke down , like literal tears came out my face . So , for me to watch them , knowing that when I went to prison , they were kids , and by the time I come out , these guys are getting booked for shows and having their own music videos . Trust me , it 's an amazing feeling . A father could not be prouder , you know ? So , yeah , big up to Likkle Vybz and Likkle Addi , fully . <p> You recently revealed the secret behind recording in prison but now that you 're back home , I 'm wondering how that creative process has changed for you . <p> Yes , I revealed the secret to my studio recordings in prison the other day , and now I 'm out , and the creative process is basically the same . I mean , I just sit there with my thoughts , with the riddim playing , and I just spit , you know what I mean ? No pen , no paper , you just flow from the top , from the dome , and that 's how I 've done it for like the past ... since about 2006 , 2007 , I 've been doing that . So the creative process has n't changed but what has changed is now I 'm more comfortable . I do n't have to be looking out if the officers are coming while I 'm recording . While I was in the cell , I had to be like , you know , " Tick Tock , Tick Tock , " and then I got to be looking like , " What the f*ck ? " So now I can just flow without interruption . So yes , that 's the only thing that has changed . The creative process is the same . <p> What has been inspiring your music ? <p> What has been inspiring my music ? That 's a great question . I mean , life , people . Before I got released , I did a song , I think it was about 2016 when I said , " The comet is coming . " And then when I came out , I did the song , " I thought I told you that the comet is coming . " You know , it 's actually at 10 million views now . So , I mean , I guess just life is my inspiration . People , my day-to-day , life , people around me , supporters , haters , friends , families , enemies . So I would just say life . My inspiration , I get it from just living . <p> Drake has been a massive supporter of yours and even named you one of his biggest influences . What have those initial conversations with him been like since you came home ? <p> Yes , Drake . He said I 'm his influence , but he 's also one of my influences . And funny enough , since I came out , we have n't spoken , but while I was in prison , we spoke , and it was always an energy and a vibe , you know ? I mean , always good energy , always good vibes . But since I came out , we have n't spoken , because I 've been all over the place , and obviously , he 's doing his stuff . But yeah , man , ' nuff respect to Drake , trust me , man . Drizzy , yes . One Champagne Papi . So yes , it 's a great feeling . <p> Cardi B , as well . You know , she 's one of my biggest influences . I 'm one of hers . So the energy is reciprocated on both sides . That 's a good look and a great look , not just for me personally , but for both genres , for hip hop and dancehall . So it 's a good look . So I appreciate those guys , trust me . <p> You 've previously stated Lil Wayne is one of your favorite musical artists . Have there been any updates on a potential collaboration between you two ? <p> Yes , Lil Wayne is one of my favorite artists . In my opinion , the best lyricist alive in hip-hop . And do n't come at me , do n't come for me . That 's my opinion . And no , I 've never spoken to Lil Wayne , but like I said , I 'm an artist , and look , one of the reasons why Vybz Kartel is such a dominant persona and a dominant artist in dancehall is because , first and foremost , I am a fan of music . I 'm a student of music . So with that being said , Lil Wayne , in my opinion , is the best lyricist , bar none . No pun unintended . But I 've never spoken to it before . But yeah , big up Weezy . <p> I read somewhere that Mick Jagger called you one of his favorite rappers at one point . Why do you think that your music transcends age , background , and genre ? <p> I mean , I think my music transcends age , background , genres because it 's done in its purest form . Even yesterday , I was doing an interview and someone asked me a similar question , like , " How do you sit down and write a song ? " I 'm like , I do n't sit down and write a song . I just speak from the heart , from the mind , and it resonates with people regardless of age , regardless of background , regardless of ethnicity because it 's real . <p> It 's the same with what Bob Marley used to do back in the 70s , back in the 60s , and that 's why his music is still that amazing music to this day . Because he speaks from the heart . Do n't get me wrong , Bob Marley 's content , Vybz Kartel 's content , two different contents but once it 's spoken from the heart , it 's going to resonate and it 's going to last forever so I think that 's why . I speak from the heart and I just speak my truth . I do n't try to pretty it up , I do n't try to water it down . I just speak my truth , and that 's it . <p> When all is said and done , how do you want your legacy to be remembered ? <p> How do I want my legacy to be remembered ? I want to be remembered as someone who just lived their lives and spoke the truth . What you see is what you get : unadulterated , unfiltered , just the truth . And once people look at my legacy in that way , then my work is done . I 'm good . I can rest in peace , literally . <p> Aron A. is a features editor for HotNewHipHop . Beginning his tenure at HotNewHipHop in July 2017 , he has comprehensively documented the biggest stories in the culture over the past few years . Throughout his time , Aron 's helped introduce a number of buzzing up-and-coming artists to our audience , identifying regional trends and highlighting hip-hop from across the globe . As a Canadian-based music journalist , he has also made a concerted effort to put spotlights on artists hailing from North of the border as part of Rise &amp;amp ; Grind , the weekly interview series that he created and launched in 2021 . Aron also broke a number of stories through his extensive interviews with beloved figures in the culture . These include industry vets ( Quality Control co-founder Kevin " Coach K " Lee , Wayno Clark ) , definitive producers ( DJ Paul , Hit-Boy , Zaytoven ) , cultural disruptors ( Soulja Boy ) , lyrical heavyweights ( Pusha T , Styles P , Danny Brown ) , cultural pioneers ( Dapper Dan , Big Daddy Kane ) , and the next generation of stars ( Lil Durk , Latto , Fivio Foreign , Denzel Curry ) . Aron also penned cover stories with the likes of Rick Ross , Central Cee , Moneybagg Yo , Vince Staples , and Bobby Shmurda.
