<p> Oakland police Officer Tuan Le , 36 , was fatally shot in Dec. 2023 while working an undercover burglary operation at a cannabis grow house where marijuana plants had been stolen in previous burglaries that night . Thousands remembered his life and service during a memorial held for him in January . <p> A public memorial service was held Wednesday morning for slain Oakland police Officer Tuan Le . Bob Redell reports . <p> A day after the aforementioned Tahoe avalanche , a second avalanche struck near where the skier was killed . No employees or guests were injured , though ski patrol searched the area with probes , beacons and a dog team . <p> As part of a company-wide initiative to close 150 stores nationwide , Macy 's in February announced that it was looking to close and sell the Macy 's San Francisco Union Square property . This comes as another loss to San Francisco 's retail industry , on top of Westfield 's plan to give up its mall along Market Street at $1.2 million . Mayor London Breed deflected claims that theft was a big reason why the retailer is choosing to leave the iconic location . <p> After Macy 's announced Tuesday it will close 150 stores nationwide , San Francisco Mayor London Breed said the company is looking to sell its Union Square property . Kris Sanchez reports . <p> A tire fell off a United Airlines plane taking off from San Francisco International Airport in March , damaging several vehicles in a nearby airport employee parking lot . The Japan-bound flight was diverted to Los Angeles . <p> A tire fell off a United Airlines plane taking off from San Francisco International Airport Thursday morning and landed in a nearby parking lot , damaging several vehicles , officials said . Sergio Quintana and Ian Cull report . <p> Dozens of activists protesting the war in Gaza shut down the Golden Gate Bridge on a mid-April morning , halting the commute into San Francisco and resulting in multiple arrests . The protesters stopped their vehicles and blocked all southbound lanes of the span , demanding that the U.S. stop arming and funding Israel , organizers said . <p> Gaza war protestors on the Golden Gate Bridge chained themselves to each other , and also to their cars Monday , causing gridlock in San Francisco , as well as Marin County . Sergio Quintana reports . <p> San Francisco Giants legend and baseball Hall of Famer Willie Mays died in June . He was 93 . The two-time Major League Baseball most valuable player and 24-time All-Star is regarded by many as one of the best baseball players ever . <p> San Francisco Giants legend and baseball Hall of Famer Willie Mays has died , the team and his family announced Tuesday . He was 93 . Ginger Conejero Saab reports . <p> Federal agents searched the home of Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao in June , along with several properties owned by men linked to a recycling company that contracts with the city . Law enforcement sources told NBC Bay Area there were four search warrant executions in Oakland as part of a larger operation . Agencies involved in the warrant operation included the FBI , IRS , and United States Postal Inspection Service , a source told NBC News . <p> Velena Jones and Christie Smith provides the latest on an FBI investigation that includes searching Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao 's home . <p> Kamala Harris made history on the last night of the 2024 Democratic National Convention in August , becoming the first Black and South Asian woman named the presidential nominee of a major party . In her speech , the Bay Area native touched on her local roots and how coming from a middle-class family influences her decisions . <p> Kamala Harris became the first woman elected vice president of the United States , and officially the first Black and South Asian woman named the presidential nominee of a major party . Damian Trujillo has the latest from the Democratic National Convention in Chicago . <p> A 47-year-old mother and her 14-year-old son were killed in a wrong-way crash on Highway 85 in San Jose in late August . The boy , identified by his father as Charlie , and his mother , Rebecca Joanne Olsen , were heading northbound on Highway 85 near Highway 87 when they were struck head-on by a pickup truck driver going the wrong way on the highway . Rebecca and Charlie died at the scene . The pickup truck driver was taken to a hospital with major injuries . <p> The father of a 14-year-old boy who was killed Monday in a wrong-way crash on Highway 85 in San Jose released a statement Thursday , calling his child " the most incredible young man . " Robert Handa reports . <p> San Francisco 49ers first-round draft pick Ricky Pearsall was shot in the chest during an attempted robbery in San Francisco 's Union Square in August . After recovering , Pearsall made his NFL debut in October . <p> San Francisco 49ers first-round pick Ricky Pearsall was shot during an attempted robbery in San Francisco 's Union Square on Saturday . Marianne Favro has the latest on how the wide receiver is doing . <p> In September , the Oakland Athletics went out with a win in their final scheduled game at the Coliseum . Fans chanted " Sell the team ! " and " Let 's go Oakland ! " amid the mixed emotions and nostalgia at the Coliseum , where the A 's had played since 1968 . The A 's plan to play the next three years in Sacramento with hopes of opening a new ballpark in Las Vegas ahead of the 2028 season . <p> Friendships , championships , first dates and fireworks : A 's fans did n't hold back their tears as the team that brought them a lifetime of memories played its final game at the Oakland Coliseum . <p> A Bay Area veteran said she was removed from a Delta Air Lines flight at San Francisco International Airport in October because of the T-shirt she was wearing . The shirt read , " Do not give in to the war within . End veteran suicide . " <p> A Bay Area veteran said she was shocked and humiliated after being kicked off a Delta flight at San Francisco International Airport because of a T-shirt she was wearing . Jocelyn Moran reports . <p> A five-alarm brush fire near Interstate 580 sparked evacuation orders in the Oakland Hills in October amid a red flag warning . Over 500 residents were evacuated and at least two homes were impacted by the flames , but no injuries were reported . Firefighters were able to contain the fire within three days . <p> A five-alarm brush fire near Interstate 580 in the Oakland Hills burned multiple homes and sparked an evacuation order impacting hundreds . Thom Jensen and Jocelyn Moran have the latest details . <p> Bay Area voters made their voices heard in the November election , recalling Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao and Alameda County District Attorney Pamela Price , electing Daniel Lurie as the next mayor of San Francisco , and sending former San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo to Congress as the 16th District representative . <p> Disgraced San Jose Councilman Omar Torres resigned in early November after his arrest on suspicion of sex crimes involving minors . Filling his vacated seat will be up to voters after the city council voted in favor of a special election . <p> Embattled San Jose Councilmember Omar Torres was arrested Tuesday after a person contacted police on Monday , reporting a sexual assault involving Torres years ago , according to police . Robert Handa reports . <p> Three college students from the East Bay were killed in a fiery crash in Piedmont the day before Thanksgiving . Another student was injured in the solo-vehicle wreck . <p> The city of Piedmont has released statements and identified three young victims of a fatal wreck of a Tesla Cybertruck that occurred early Wednesday morning , devastating the community a day before Thanksgiving . <p> A series of high-magnitude earthquakes struck Northern California in December , including a magnitude 7.0 offshore in the Pacific Ocean that triggered a tsunami warning along coastal areas from Santa Cruz into Oregon . Aftershocks were also felt in Sacramento and the Bay Area . The tsunami warnings sent phone alerts across the Bay Area , but areas like Half Moon Bay and San Francisco held off on turning the sirens on . <p> In the aftermath of a 7.0 magnitude earthquake off the Northern California coast , the ground continued to shake 24 hours later and authorities across the entire region were assessing the response . Kris Sanchez reports . <p> Following days of deliberations , a San Francisco jury in mid-December found tech consultant Nima Momeni guilty of second-degree murder in the 2023 stabbing death of Cash App founder Bob Lee . Momeni faces 16 years to life in prison . <p> After seven days of deliberations , a San Francisco jury on Tuesday found Nima Momeni guilty of second-degree murder in the fatal stabbing of Cash App founder Bob Lee last year . Sergio Quintana , Ginger Conejero Saab and Scott Budman report .
