<h> Israel loosened its rules to bomb Hamas fighters , killing many more civilians <p> Emergency responders tried to contain fires at one of the first buildings destroyed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza City in the northern Gaza Strip on Oct. 7 , 2023 . Samar Abu Elouf/NYT <p> JERUSALEM -- At exactly 1 p.m. on Oct. 7 , 2023 , Israel 's military leadership issued an order that unleashed one of the most intense bombing campaigns in contemporary warfare . <p> Effective immediately , the order granted midranking Israeli officers the authority to strike thousands of militants and military sites that had never been a priority in previous wars in the Gaza Strip . Officers could now pursue not only the senior Hamas commanders , arms depots , and rocket launchers that were the focus of earlier campaigns , but also the lowest-ranking fighters . <p> In each strike , the order said , officers had the authority to risk killing up to 20 civilians . <p> The order , which has not previously been reported , had no precedent in Israeli military history . Midranking officers had never been given so much leeway to attack so many targets at such a high potential civilian cost . <p> Advertisement <p> It meant , for example , that the military could target rank-and-file militants as they were at home surrounded by relatives and neighbors , instead of only when they were alone outside . <p> In previous conflicts with Hamas , many Israeli strikes were approved only after officers concluded no civilians would be hurt . Sometimes , officers could risk killing up to five civilians , and only rarely did the limit rise to 10 or above , though the actual death toll was sometimes much higher . <p> On Oct. 7 , the military leadership changed its rules of engagement because it believed Israel faced an existential threat , according to a senior military officer who answered questions about the order on the condition of anonymity . <p> Hours earlier , Hamas-led terrorists had stormed into southern Israel , seizing towns and army bases , committing atrocities , firing thousands of rockets at civilian areas , killing up to 1,200 people and taking roughly 250 hostages . As Israelis battled Hamas fighters inside their borders , the officer said , Israel 's leaders also feared an invasion from the group 's allies in Lebanon and believed they had to take drastic military action . <p> An investigation by The New York Times found Israel severely weakened its system of safeguards meant to protect civilians , adopted flawed methods to find targets and assess the risk of civilian casualties , routinely failed to conduct post-strike reviews of civilian harm or punish officers for wrongdoing , and ignored warnings from within its own ranks and from senior US military officials about these failings . <p> Advertisement <p> The Times reviewed dozens of military records and interviewed more than 100 soldiers and officials , including more than 25 people who helped vet , approve , or strike targets . Collectively , their accounts provide an unparalleled understanding of how Israel mounted one of the deadliest air wars of this century . Most of the soldiers and officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were barred from speaking publicly on a subject of such sensitivity . The Times verified the military orders with officers familiar with their content . <p> In its investigation , the Times found that : <p> -- Israel vastly expanded the set of military targets it sought to hit in preemptive airstrikes while simultaneously increasing the number of civilians that officers could endanger in each attack . That led Israel to fire nearly 30,000 munitions into Gaza in the war 's first seven weeks , more than in the next eight months combined . <p> -- On a few occasions , senior commanders approved strikes on Hamas leaders that they knew would each endanger more than 100 noncombatants , crossing an extraordinary threshold for a contemporary Western military . <p> -- The military struck at a pace that made it harder to confirm it was hitting legitimate targets . It burned through much of a prewar database of vetted targets within days and adopted an unproven system for finding new targets that used artificial intelligence at a vast scale . <p> -- The military often relied on a crude statistical model to assess the risk of civilian harm and sometimes launched strikes on targets several hours after last locating them , increasing the risk of error . The model mainly depended on estimates of cellphone usage in a wider neighborhood , rather than extensive surveillance of a specific building , as was common in previous Israeli campaigns . <p> Advertisement <p> -- From the first day of the war , Israel significantly reduced its use of so-called roof knocks , or warning shots that give civilians time to flee an imminent attack . And when it could have feasibly used smaller or more precise munitions to achieve the same military goal , it sometimes caused greater damage by dropping " dumb bombs " as well as 2,000-pound bombs . <p> The air campaign was at its most intense during the first two months of the war , when more than 15,000 Palestinians were killed -- or roughly a third of the overall toll , according to the Gaza Health Ministry , which does not differentiate between civilians and combatants . <p> From November 2023 onward , amid a global outcry , Israel began to conserve ammunition and tighten some of its rules of engagement , including by halving the number of civilians who could be endangered when striking low-ranked militants who posed no imminent threat . But the rules remain far more permissive than before the war . Since those early weeks , more than 30,000 Palestinians have been killed , and while Israel disputes the ministry 's figures , the total continues to climb . <p> Provided a summary of the Times ' findings , the Israeli military acknowledged its rules of engagement had changed after Oct. 7 but said in a 700-word statement that its forces have " consistently been employing means and methods that adhere to the rules of law . " <p> The changes were made in the context of a conflict that is " unprecedented and hardly comparable to other theaters of hostilities worldwide , " the statement added , citing the scale of Hamas 's attack , efforts by militants to hide among civilians in Gaza , and Hamas 's extensive tunnel network . <p> Advertisement <p> " Such key factors , " the statement said , " bear implications on the application of the rules , such as the choice of military objectives and the operational constraints that dictate the conduct of hostilities , including the ability to take feasible precautions in strikes . " <p> Israel , which has been accused of genocide in a case before the International Court of Justice , says it complies with international law by taking all feasible precautions to minimize civilian casualties , often by ordering evacuations of whole cities before strikes and posting online maps about imminent operations . <p> Israel says Hamas 's military strategy makes bloodshed more likely . The group embeds itself in the civilian population , firing rockets from residential areas , hiding fighters and weapons inside homes and medical facilities , and operating from underground military installations and tunnels . <p> Unlike Hamas , which fires rockets indiscriminately at civilian areas , Israel and all Western armies operate under a multilayered oversight system that assesses the legality of planned strikes . Each attack plan is usually meant to be analyzed by a group of officers , which often includes a military lawyer who can advise on whether strikes might be unnecessary or unlawful . <p> Under Israeli military protocols , there are four categories of risk for civilian casualties : Level Zero , which forbids soldiers to put any civilians at risk ; Level One , which allows up to five civilian deaths ; Level Two , which allows up to 10 ; and Level Three , which allows up to 20 -- and became the standard on Oct. 7 . <p> Suddenly , officers could decide to drop 1-ton bombs on a vast array of military infrastructure -- including small ammunition stockpiles and rocket factories -- as well as on all Hamas fighters . The definition of a military target included lookouts and money changers suspected of handling Hamas 's funds , as well as the entrances to the group 's underground tunnel network , which were often hidden in homes . <p> Advertisement <p> Authorization from senior commanders was required only if the target was too close to a sensitive site , like a school or health facility , though such strikes were regularly approved too . <p> The effect was swift . Airwars , a London-based conflict monitor , documented 136 strikes that each killed at least 15 people in October 2023 alone . That was almost five times the number the group has documented during any comparable period anywhere in the world since it was founded a decade ago .
