<p> His overpriced $9.5 million salary-cap hit makes him a lightning rod for criticism from fans , many of whom somehow believe the Hawks would be better off without him -- which is objectively untrue . Not only is he a skilled defenseman who eats minutes , but also there are plenty of stats that demonstrate how much worse the Hawks have fared when playing without him in recent years . Jones has objectively struggled , however , in his first three games since returning ( just before the holiday break ) from a right foot injury that cost him 16 games . It 's a tricky situation for him , too , considering the Hawks changed coaches and systems during his absence . <p> He attended all the meetings interim coach Anders Sorensen held to discuss the system changes , but there 's a difference between seeing something on video and doing it on the ice . His teammates got a head start with the latter . <p> Sorensen met with him on Friday morning in Buffalo to give some individual feedback . <p> " He just got back , so ... you do n't want to put too much on him , " Sorensen said . " He 's got to find his game . He 's been around a long time , and we know what he can do . He knows where his game needs to be . He 's watched a lot of our games ; he 's been in meetings . In terms of the concept and the structure , he 's aware of all of it . Now it 's just a matter of executing it . " <p> Jones has averaged 23:55 of ice time in those three games , so his workload remains large -- although slightly smaller than it was under ex-coach Luke Richardson , who was giving him an NHL-leading 25:43 per game . <p> The Hawks have an even goal differential of 4-4 during his five-on-five shifts since he returned , and he scored Friday in the Hawks ' 6-2 loss to the Sabres . Sorensen commended him for winning a net-front battle to give the Hawks possession and then wisely joining the rush before eventually burying a pretty shot-pass from Pat Maroon . <p> " It comes back to the competing level , " Sorensen said . " That was a good moment where you see he did that and he was effective . " <p> But Jones ' overall analytics in these three games are poorer : the Hawks have been outshot 29-20 with a 34.5% expected-goals ratio during his five-on-five shifts . Fans were apoplectic about an ill-advised pinch that led to a Flames shorthanded goal in his first period back , as well . He just has n't looked particularly sharp . <p> Jones said Friday morning he 's trying to " get some of the timing back with the breakout plays " and adjust to the faster and more frequent decision-making that Sorensen 's system requires from defensemen . <p> He was one player benefiting from Richardson 's passive 1-2-2 forechecking structure because it helped cover for his subpar zone-entry defense and backward skating ability . He has allowed 16% fewer opponent zone entries leading to scoring chances this season than last season , per All Three Zones . <p> Sorensen 's neutral-zone trap , which has become basically an aggressive interpretation of a 1-1-3 , puts more pressure on defensemen to hold the blue line tightly and gives them less support while doing so . That represents a challenge for Jones . <p> Jones said Friday night that he felt better as the Sabres game progressed but knows " there 's still room to improve to where I was pre-injury . " Sorensen called that a " fair assessment . " <p> As far as the injury itself , he 's still dealing with some pain and noticeably limping after every game . But doctors believe his foot is fully healed , and he believes the nagging discomfort is not affecting his play . <p> " It was just an extremely annoying bone that I had no idea about until you look at the anatomy of the foot , " Jones said . " You 're like , ' What the hell is that ? ' " <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza .
