<p> As 2024 comes to a close , it 's time to put the year in review . From protests to parties , from prayers to politics , this year is another one for the books . <p> But what were the most important events of the year ? Which exciting happenings have left a lasting impact on Jerusalem ? That 's exactly what we 're going to look at today . <p> This list is purely subjective , as while all of these events are undoubtedly very important , how they rank is a matter of opinion . In this case , the opinion is mine . <p> This is In Jerusalem 's 2024 wrap-up . We hope you enjoy it . <h> 10 . Art festivals <p> Jerusalem is no stranger to festivals honoring the fine arts . The city 's dedicated art scene has enough variety that there is always something for everyone . Galleries can be found all over , and major venues such as the Israel Museum and Hansen House put on breathtaking events , year after year . People are seen attending an event at the Hansen House in Jerusalem . ( credit : FLASH90 ) <p> In my opinion , 2024 Jerusalem Design Week really stole the show . The theme around " The Ark " at Hansen House was stunning , and I hope we get more events like it in the years to come . <h> 9 . Religious holiday events <p> Jewish holidays , especially the three pilgrimage holidays , namely Passover , Sukkot , and Shavuot , typically see huge numbers of Jews coming to Jerusalem . In ancient times , the visitors would be pilgrims bringing offerings to the Temple and walking up from the City of David . Nowadays , this typically translates into massive numbers of Jews congregating together at the Western Wall in the Old City . <p> But what makes this year special is that such visits to the Jewish Quarter have taken place during a year of war . While the current situation has certainly impacted the number of visitors to the city , all those who came managed to do so despite it all . That alone makes them noteworthy . <h> 8 . Iran attacks <p> With its location far from Gaza and the northern border , the capital rarely hears sirens to the extent that other places do . But when attacks from Iran came from the east , sirens went off in Jerusalem , and the people of the city rushed to take cover . <p> Luckily , no one was harmed and there was no damage . But it was a chilling reminder that even in Jerusalem , safety is n't guaranteed.Paraguay 's president Santiago Pena speaks at the Knesset . December 11 , 2024. ( credit : MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <h> 7 . Paraguay reopens its Jerusalem embassy <p> Only six countries have embassies in the capital . Paraguay first opened its embassy in 2018 , going on to reverse that decision only months later , following a change in administration . But in December 2024 , the embassy moved back to Jerusalem . <p> The move was widely praised by many Israeli lawmakers and seen as a new breath of support for the Jewish state and its government during a time when Israel is struggling with its international image during a year of war . <h> 6 . Gallant Night II ( tie ) <p> In 2023 , the judicial reform protests were in full swing , but they exploded into a major event when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu fired defense minister Yoav Gallant . This kicked off Gallant Night , a protest so enormous in scale and with so much evident outrage among the general public that the prime minister was forced to walk back his decision regarding the reform . <p> When Netanyahu once again fired Gallant in early November , the night of the protests came back , this time to be known as Gallant Night II . It was n't as large in scale as last year 's -- evidenced by the fact that Gallant remained fired . However , that night was a poignant reminder that the public has not forgotten what happened last time and that the echoes of the judicial reform protests live on , even through the war . Israel Police officers protect the car of Yitzchak Goldknopf , construction and housing minister , during a haredi anti-draft protest in Jerusalem , June 30 , 2024. ( credit : FLASH90 ) <h> 6 . Haredi draft protests ( tie ) <p> The fact that Israel 's haredi community largely does n't serve in the IDF has been a contentious issue for decades . But as the country continues to fight the longest war in its history , outrage that has long simmered among the general public has boiled over . Calls for the ultra-Orthodox to serve in the IDF are louder than ever , and many are not going quietly . <p> The haredim have been protesting all over the country since the High Court of Justice ruled that they were not legally exempt from IDF service . And Jerusalem , where the court and the Knesset are located and where many haredim live , has been no exception to demonstrations and clashes with law enforcement . <p> With the issue far from over , it remains to be seen whether tension will flare up even further . <h> 5 . Taking down UNRWA <p> In late October , the Knesset made the monumental decision to outlaw the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees ( UNRWA ) in Jerusalem . This was a major move , going against widespread international pressure . Nevertheless , calls to get rid of UNRWA in the city had only increased since Oct. 7 , 2023 , with outrage over reports that some of its staff were active members of Hamas . <p> Now the Israel Land Authority is set to seize control of UNRWA 's head office in Jerusalem , hoping to turn it into residential housing . But that may be a news story for 2025. <h> 4 . Municipal elections <p> The largest city in Israel went to the polls this year to vote on the new makeup of the municipality . <p> Municipal politics are an often overlooked but still an incredibly important part of life in the Jewish state , with many aspects of day-to-day life hinging on what goes on in these city halls . However , local elections , originally slated for October 31 , 2023 , were repeatedly delayed due to the ongoing war . <p> Jerusalem 's election was rather interesting . The mayor 's office was never really thought to be under serious threat , and Mayor Moshe Lion 's victory was seemingly assured from the start . But the makeup of the City Council saw an important shift , with haredi parties becoming a majority on the council . <h> 3 . The trial of Benjamin Netanyahu resumes <p> The legal woes of Israel 's prime minister have arguably helped drive the fate of this country more than anything else , including the war . From the moment Netanyahu 's legal woes began in 2019 , the State of Israel has been thrust into political instability . <p> Years of elections , delays , protests , and now war have seen the trial continue to drag on , but the fact that Israel 's premier is on trial is not something that can be overlooked when reviewing 2024 . The twist is that it is not taking place in the Jerusalem District Court -- as it normally would be -- but in an underground courtroom in the Tel Aviv District Court , due to security concerns . <p> While the trial has been held up until this point in the Jerusalem court , which has a sectioned-off , protected space in the lobby , the Tel Aviv court offers stronger fortification against missile and drone assaults . <p> What makes this even more significant is that Netanyahu is not just on trial but is now finally testifying . Only the future will tell what impact this could have further down the line . <h> 2 . Jerusalem 's after-school nightmare <p> The trial of Netanyahu is extremely important , but it is also far more than just a Jerusalem event or news story . Much more particular to Jerusalem was the crisis surrounding after-school programs in the city at the start of the school year . <p> In public schools -- specifically daycare centers , kindergartens , and the lower grades of elementary schools -- the tzaharon ( after-school program ) makes up the last two hours of the school day . When the teachers leave the schools , the chaperones substitute them to watch over the children and give them lunch . No tzaharon not only means no lunch , it also means that parents have to pick their children up two hours early , regardless of whether or not they have jobs . <p> At the start of the school year , Jerusalem had a severe shortage of chaperones . As the crisis continued , parents in Jerusalem received reports of bugs found in food , allergens brought into the classroom against existing rules , and people with no experience being sent to work with children as chaperones . <p> Many families throughout the city were shocked by how the situation was being handled and blamed the municipality and Amutat Lavy -- the organization in charge of the programs -- for shifting the blame onto the chaperones . Thankfully , a month later it appeared that the situation had been fixed -- though it is still unclear whether this was a proper resolution or a temporary fix to a larger issue . <h> 1 . Hostage deal protests <p> While 2023 was the year of the judicial reform protests , 2024 has been an entire year of war , and the number one topic on the streets has been the plight of the hostages held by Hamas in Gaza . Around 100 hostages are still out of reach , and all attempts at achieving a deal that would allow them to return home have been unsuccessful . This has blended with existing resentment toward the government seen during the judicial reform protests and with overall discontent regarding the ongoing war . <p> These protests have been a major focus of Jerusalem life throughout the year , with every week seemingly bringing a new protest . <p> Regardless of whether you agree with the protesters or not , their sheer persistence , week after week , proves that if nothing else , they are n't just going away . <p> And that is why they have the top spot on this list of the most memorable events in Jerusalem of 2024. ?
