<p> BUFFALO , N.Y . -- The clich ? of " not being ready to play " gets thrown around too often in hockey without much meaning . <p> This is n't the early 1900s , when some NHL players actually did have second jobs . Realistically , every team is ready to play every night . They 've practiced , stretched , done extensive video prep and hashed out a game plan . It 's just the execution , the work ethic or the attention to detail that 's missing sometimes . <p> But the Blackhawks on Friday looked as unready to play as any 21st-century NHL team ever will . They conceded four goals in the first period of a 6-2 blowout loss to the lowly Sabres , who had dropped 13 of 14 coming in . It was " ugly , " forward Taylor Hall said -- twice . <p> The NHL 's holiday travel rules did the Hawks no favors , but the fact they seemingly forgot how to play hockey for 20 minutes can not be blamed on outside factors . Their defensive-zone coverage was laughably discombobulated , and their neutral-zone turnovers were laughably frequent . <p> " We did n't come ready to play today , and it obviously showed right from the start , " defenseman Seth Jones said . <p> Said Hall : " With the day that we had , it was imperative for us to be simple and play hard and at least get our legs under us . You blink , and it 's 4-0 . It 's unacceptable . We put Petr Mrazek in a really tough spot . . ? . ? . It 's just really disappointing after a break . Everyone should be mentally fresh . " <p> Dec. 27 tends to be a wacky day every year because the NHL does n't allow travel on Dec. 26 , the last day of the holiday break . Some teams come out of the break rejuvenated , others rusty . The Hawks -- and the seven other teams who played on the road Friday -- had to fly out around 6 a.m. and bus directly to the morning skate upon landing . <p> That 's hardly an all-encompassing excuse , though . The Maple Leafs , who were fined $100,000 by the NHL in 2022 for bending the holiday travel rules , flew into Detroit on Friday and bashed the **27;548;TOOLONG Red Wings 5-2 . Most other traveling teams struggled , but not as egregiously as the Hawks , who were outshot 11-2 in the first period and 35-17 overall . <p> Switching goalies to Arvid Soderblom and shuffling the defensive pairings at the first intermission halted the onslaught , and the Hawks even clawed back a sliver of hope when Jones trimmed the deficit to 4-2 early in the third period . But then Soderblom allowed a backbreaking and extremely soft goal to Sabres forward Alex Tuch , who later completed a hat trick . <p> Young defenseman Alex Vlasic , a stalwart most nights , delivered arguably his worst performance of the season , but he was far from the only victim . T.J. Brodie 's problems also noticeably continued . <p> " There were so many things that we did wrong and so many things to clean up , but overall it was our compete level that was lacking , " Hall said . <p> " We had so many stick checks and fly-bys . They could do whatever they wanted . I do n't know how many hits we even had . " <p> The Hawks ' absurd road woes from last season -- they endured a 22-game road losing streak that stretched nearly four months and finished 7-32-2 -- seemed potentially resolved early this season , when they started out 4-4-1 on the road . <p> Since then , however , they 're 1-10-1 on the road , beating only the Rangers on Dec. 9 . They 've lost five straight road games in regulation , including three in the last week to cancel out the good done by their three-game home winning streak . <p> They 'll head into Detroit on Jan. 10 with only one road win in more than two months -- a statistic suddenly reminiscent of last season . <p> The woman who bought the first-ever Ford Mustang , Donald Trump 's appearance at the NABJ Convention , a 1-star review of " Unfrosted " and Ed Burke 's corruption trial sentencing were among our most-read stories of the year . <p> State Sen. Robert Peters wants to restore the grants for incarcerated people . Readers also comment on Mona Charen 's criticism of the Wall Street Journal , charrette-style meetings , the " Appeal to Heaven " flag and a need for U.S. intervention in Gaza .
