<p> Geneva -- The head of the United Nations ' World Health Organization called Monday for the immediate release of Hossam Abu Safiyeh , director of the war-torn Gaza Strip 's Kamal Adwan Hospital , who is being held by Israel 's military following a major raid on the facility . The Friday-Saturday assault on Kamal Adwan in Beit Lahia left northern Gaza 's last major health facility out of service and emptied of patients , the WHO said . <p> " Hospitals in Gaza have once again become battlegrounds and the health system is under severe threat , " WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on X. " Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza is out of service following the raid , forced patient and staff evacuation and the detention of its director . His whereabouts are unknown . We call for his immediate release . " <p> Israel 's military said Sunday that its forces had killed approximately 20 Palestinian militants and apprehended " 240 terrorists " in the raid , calling it one of its " largest operations " conducted in the territory . The Israeli military said it had detained Abu Safiyeh , suspecting him of being a Hamas militant . When asked if he had been transferred to Israeli territory for further questioning , the military did not offer an immediate comment . <p> Israeli officials have consistently accused Hamas of using civilians as human shields , positioning its weapons and fighters in and underneath hospitals , schools and other vital infrastructure . The group , which has long been designated a terrorist organization by Israel and the U.S. , has denied those accusations . <p> The London-based charity Amnesty International also called on Israel to immediately and unconditionally release Abu Safiyeh , saying in a series of social media posts that the hospital director had become the " voice of Gaza 's decimated health sector . " <p> 1/5 We are extremely concerned over the fate &amp; wellbeing of Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya , director of Kamal Adwan hospital who was detained by Israeli forces along with others during a raid on the hospital on 27 December . He must be released immediately and unconditionally . **26;1635;TOOLONG <p> The charity has accused Israel 's military of genocide against the Palestinians in Gaza -- an accusation Israel has repeated and vehemently rejected -- and it accused the Israeli military of detaining " hundreds of Palestinian healthcare workers " without charge and subjecting them " to torture and other ill-treatment . " <p> Since October 6 this year , Israeli operations in Gaza have focused on the north , with officials saying their land and air offensive aims to prevent Hamas from regrouping . <p> Health officials in the Hamas-run Palestinian territory said Monday that the overall death toll in Gaza from Israel 's offensive had risen to 45,541 , including 27 people the Health Ministry said had been killed over the previous 24 hours alone . <p> The ministry said at least 108,338 others had been wounded since Israel launched its offensive against Hamas . The war was launched in response to Hamas ' Oct. 7 , 2023 terrorist attack , which saw the militants kill some 1,200 people in Israel and kidnap 251 others . <p> Palestinians walk among debris following the Israeli attack on the courtyard of Kamal Adwan Hospital and its surrounding buildings in Beit Lahia , northern Gaza , Dec. 25 , 2024 . Khalil Ramzi Alkahlut/Anadolu/Getty <p> Frigid winter temperatures have compounded the misery for Palestinians in Gaza after more than a year of war . Medics in the enclave have reported infants dying of hypothermia in recent weeks . <p> Dr. Fidda Al-Nadi , a doctor at the Nasser Hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis , which has not functioned fully since Israeli raids early this year , told CBS News last week that it was admitting one or two cases of hypothermia every single day , and that the youngest patients were the most vulnerable . <p> " In the stress we are living in , many children are born prematurely , and this predisposes them more to hypothermia , " Al-Nadi said .
