<p> A former president was convicted of 34 felonies . The current one stumbled badly in a high-stakes debate , and announced he would not seek a second term . Mexico elected its first female president . And a daughter of Oakland joined the race to try to become America 's first . <p> She had not planned to run until 2028 . But when Joe Biden announced on July 21 that he would become the first president since Lyndon Johnson in 1968 not to seek re-election , endorsing Vice President Kamala Harris , the Democratic Party rallied around her . <p> Harris , a former San Francisco prosecutor , California attorney general and U.S. senator , would have been only the second president born in California , after Richard Nixon . She had 107 days to organize a campaign and barnstorm the country . She beat the Republican nominee , Donald Trump , in their only debate . She raised more than $1 billion . <p> But she came up short . Voters still stinging over inflation that swept the world after the Covid pandemic , unhappy about illegal immigration and estranged from a party that many said was out of touch with working class concerns , chose Trump . He won all seven swing states . Republicans took back the Senate and kept a slim majority in the House . <p> Where does Harris , 60 , go next ? She could seek the presidency again in 2028 . Or she may announce a run next year for California governor in 2026 . That would likely clear the Democratic field , and make her the odds-on favorite to succeed Gov . Gavin Newsom . <p> Fans attend a public celebration of life for former San Francisco Giants player Willie Mays at Oracle Park in San Francisco , Calif. , on Monday , July 8 , 2024 . ( Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group ) <p> He was the most famous Bay Area athlete in any sport , considered by some historians to be the greatest baseball player ever . The " Say Hey Kid " came out of the segregated South , joined the Negro Leagues , and played in the majors from 1951 to 1973 , nearly all with the Giants . <p> Mays ' legendary playing style -- from his cannon arm to the way he raced around the bases so fast that his helmet flew off -- marked a career with 660 home runs and 24 all-star appearances . No one was surprised when the Giants built a statue of him in front of their waterfront ballpark in 2000 , and coronated the address " 24 Willie Mays Plaza . " <p> " Mays is the only man in baseball I 'd pay to see play , " fellow Hall-of-Famer Ty Cobb once said . <p> A fixture at Giants games for years , a mentor to hundreds of players and beloved by fans , Mays died June 18 at age 93 in Palo Alto . Ten days later , another Giants Hall-of-Famer , Orlando Cepeda , died at age 86 . <p> The Giants have struggled since winning the World Series in 2014 , winning the National League West only once . On Sept. 30 , after firing president of baseball operations Farhan Zaidi , they named former MVP catcher Buster Posey to the job . Opening Day is April 4 . <p> Bay Area voters are known for being tolerant . This year they hit their limit . Fed up with car break-ins , retail theft , attacks on elderly residents , drug dealing and squalid homeless encampments , San Franciscans dumped Mayor London Breed and replaced her with fellow Democrat Daniel Lurie , heir to the Levi Strauss fortune . Not to be outdone , East Bay voters recalled Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao and Alameda County District Attorney Pamela Price by landslide margins . <p> The Federal Correctional Institution , Dublin had been famous for housing inmates like Patty Hearst , " Hollywood Madam " Heidi Fleiss and actress Felicity Huffman , who was convicted in the Varsity Blues bribery scandal . <p> The Alameda County prison became infamous , however , after the Associated Press , 60 Minutes and others documented rampant sexual abuse of inmates by prison guards and staff . <p> Since 2021 , at least eight FCI Dublin employees have been charged , including former warden Ray Garcia , who was sentenced last year to nearly 6 years in prison . <p> This month , the Federal Bureau of Prisons announced it was permanently closing FCI Dublin , and agreed to pay $116 million to 103 women who filed a class-action lawsuit . " We were sentenced to prison . We were not sentenced to be assaulted and abused , " said former Dublin prisoner Aimee Chavira . <p> Oakland Athletics ' Jacob Wilson ( 5 ) and his teammates acknowledge fans after the A 's played the last home game at the Coliseum in Oakland , Calif. , on Thursday , Sept. 26 , 2024 . The Oakland Athletics won 3-2 against the Texas Rangers . The A 's will move to Sacramento next season . ( Ray Chavez/Bay Area News Group ) <p> On Sept. 26 , the Oakland Athletics played their last home game , ending a 57-year run . They beat the Texas Rangers 3-2 in front of a sell-out crowd at the Oakland Coliseum . <p> With the loss of the Warriors to San Francisco in 2019 and the Raiders to Las Vegas in 2020 , the A 's were the last major pro sports team left in Oakland . The city lost part of its identity and a gathering site for generations of families . " I started crying after the final moment , " said A 's fan Jesus Ventura . " I felt a deep , deep sadness . " <p> After moving to Oakland from Kansas City in 1968 , the A 's won four World Series in 1972 , 1973 , 1974 and 1989 . Fans cheered as Reggie Jackson blasted home runs , Rickey Henderson stole bases , and greats like Vida Blue , Catfish Hunter and Dennis Eckersley struck out opposing hitters . <p> But as the Oakland Coliseum aged , the A 's failed to build a new facility in San Jose , Fremont or Oakland . Billionaire owner John Fisher , heir to the Gap fortune , announced plans last year to move the team to Las Vegas . Enraged fans launched a " sell the team ! " campaign . But Major League owners gave him the OK . <p> On Dec. 5 , Las Vegas officials greenlit plans for a $1.75 billion domed stadium , with $380 million in public funds , scheduled to open in 2028 . Until then , the A 's will play at Sutter Health Park , a minor league field in West Sacramento . Adding to the heartache of A 's fans , the team 's Hall of Fame hometown hero Rickey Henderson , who holds the record for most stolen bases , died just days before what would have been his 66th birthday on Christmas Day . <p> It 's a common cliche : " Every vote counts . " A Silicon Valley congressional race this year proved it true . <p> After congresswoman Anna Eshoo announced she was retiring from the 16th Congressional District , 11 candidates ran to succeed her , including former San Jose Mayor Sam Liccardo , Assemblyman Evan Low and Santa Clara County Supervisor Joe Simitian . <p> After the March 5 primary , an amazing thing happened . Liccardo led , but fellow Democrats Low and Simitian , fighting for the other spot on the general election ballot , were tied following weeks of counting . Each had 30,249 votes . After a recount , Low won by 5 votes . <p> In November , the more moderate Liccardo beat Low easily , 58%-42% , to represent the district , which stretches from Pacifica to San Jose . He will be sworn in Jan. 3 . <p> SAN JOSE , CALIFORNIA -- DECEMBER 9 : One of two riders on a BART train that arrived just before 4:30 p.m. exits the train at the Berryessa BART station in San Jose , Calif. , on Wednesday , Dec. 9 , 2020 . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) <p> 7 ) Transit funding woes worsen <p> Most vestiges of the Covid pandemic are gone . But it is still decimating public transit . <p> Because so many people continue to work from home , BART , the Bay Area 's largest public transit system , has seen ridership collapse from roughly 400,000 a day to fewer than 200,000 most days now . The agency , which operates 50 stations in five counties , raised fares by 5% . It still faces a $35 million deficit in 2026 and a staggering $385 million shortfall in 2027 . <p> Federal Covid money is running out , and the new Trump administration is n't likely to give California a bailout . <p> Critics say BART needs to cut bloated union benefits and staffing , and continue to reduce crime on its trains . Other Bay Area transit agencies also face shortfalls , and warn that if they cut service , traffic will increase for everyone on freeways . <p> The agencies have tried to draft a tax increase for the 2026 ballot , but so far have n't been able to agree . The question for 2025 may not be whether there will be cuts on hours and routes -- but how big will they be ? <p> San Francisco 49ers ' Deebo Samuel ( 19 ) walks off the field as confetti falls all around him after being defeated by the Kansas City Chiefs in the Super Bowl at Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas , Nev. , on Sunday , Feb. 11 , 2024 . The Kansas City Chiefs defeated the San Francisco 49ers 25-22 . ( Jose Carlos Fajardo/Bay Area News Group ) <p> They had so much promise . With offensive stars like George Kittle , Brandon Aiyuk , Christian McCaffrey and quarterback Brock Purdy , a stacked defense and a 12-5 record , the 49ers rolled into Las Vegas on Feb. 11 looking to dethrone the defending champion Kansas City Chiefs . <p> But in the most-watched TV show in history , with 123 million viewers , the Niners ' first Super Bowl victory since 1995 was n't to be . They led 19-16 with 1:53 left in the game . But future Hall-of-Fame quarterback Patrick Mahomes drove the Chiefs down the field , resulting in a game-tying field goal with 3 seconds left . In overtime , he broke 49ers ' fans hearts , covering 75 yards in 13 plays for the winning touchdown . <p> The 49ers fired their defensive coordinator after the game . Relentless injuries this season to stars like Aiyuk , McCaffrey , Nick Bosa and Trent Williams caused them to miss the playoffs entirely . In 2025 they are expected to sign Purdy to a long-term deal . And although there are lots of question marks , they are lucky the NFC West is considered a relatively easy division . Hope springs eternal . <p> San Mateo County Sheriff Christina Corpus enters the meeting followed by Undersheriff Dan Perea at the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors special meeting in Redwood City , Calif. , on Wednesday , Nov. 13 , 2024 . The County Supervisors were considering seeking Sheriff Christina Corpus 's resignation . ( Nhat V. Meyer/Bay Area News Group ) <p> San Mateo County Sheriff Christina Corpus got a lot of attention in 2024 . But it was n't for arresting criminals . On Dec. 4 , the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors voted to place a measure on the March ballot that would allow them to remove a sheriff for " flagrant or repeated neglect of duties , misappropriation of public funds , willful falsification of documents , or obstructing an investigation . " <p> The unanimous vote came after the board hired retired Superior Court Judge LaDoris Cordell to investigate allegations of wrongdoing . She concluded that Corpus hired her boyfriend to be chief of staff , gave him improper authority , used racial and homophobic slurs and bullied employees . Corpus denies the allegations . <p> In November , she ordered the arrest of Carlos Tapia , a critic who serves as president of the San Mateo County Deputy Sheriff 's Association , for time card fraud . But on Dec. 16 , San Mateo County District Attorney Stephen M. Wagstaffe said no crime was committed and he wo n't file charges . <p> Will San Mateo County 's first female sheriff get the boot ? Voters will have the final say in three months . <p> Pro-Palestinian demonstrators listen to a speaker as they protest at Stanford University urging the university to divest from Israel and demanding a permanent cease-fire in the war in Gaza , on Thursday , April 25 , 2024 , at Stanford University . ( Dai Sugano/Bay Area News Group ) <p> 10 ) Gaza protests roil universities <p> College campuses across California were the site of raucous demonstrations following the Oct. 7 , 2023 , terrorist attack by Hamas against Israel , sparking a massive counterattack by Israeli forces in Gaza that has killed more than 40,000 people . <p> Hundreds of students and other protesters were arrested at Cal , Stanford , UC Santa Cruz and other campuses after refusing to leave pro-Palestinian encampments and occupying buildings . Some Jewish students said they were harassed and threatened . <p> In August , UC system President Michael Drake banned encampments and said students would face discipline if they blocked others or wore masks as intimidation . Cal State followed suit . This fall , protests were muted . <p> Biden has dispatched negotiators to the Middle East to try and broker a cease-fire . On Dec. 16 , Trump announced that he had a " very good talk " with Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , and warned " all hell is going to break out " if Hamas does not release the remaining hostages by Jan. 20 , the day Trump takes office .
