<h> " My mission is to try to understand what happened to you on Oct. 7 ... in the blink of an eye , it switched your reality from joy to horror . I dedicate this film to you . The true forces of resilience . " <p> When 14-year-old Hillel Kornwasser of Teaneck , New Jersey , went to Israel with his father for the bar mitzvah of a close family friend last February , he could not have anticipated the profound impact of the trip , which included meeting with survivors of the Supernova music festival and with soldiers returning from Gaza . <p> Kornwasser was so moved and inspired by the experience , that he spent the next 10 months making his first film , Forces of Resilience ( in partnership with NCSY ) , which was set to premiere at Teaneck 's Congregation Rinat Israel on December 22 . <p> The Heichal HaTorah freshman recalls that he was in synagogue on Oct. 7 when he went out for a few minutes with a friend and began to hear what was unfolding on that day in Israel . He learned of the terrorist attacks not far from where his brother was learning in yeshiva . <p> Despite the seriousness of the events in Israel , Kornwasser reports feeling that " the next day for us was like a regular day -- with 15 or 20 guys playing basketball . We did n't understand what was happening in Israel . We were completely oblivious . " <p> Even on the February trip , which was scheduled to include " inspiring and mission stuff , " Kornwasser admits that he was " living the life of a teen " and " was n't so connected at the time . " As the week-long trip unfolded , Kornwasser had many experiences that profoundly impacted him . Hillel Kornwasser is seen interviewing Daniel Sharabi , survivor of the October 7 massacre . ( credit : Courtesy Kornwasser family ) <p> " When we took a bus down south , we saw tanks on the side of the road . We made a barbecue for soldiers who , two hours before , were in Gaza and had lost five guys in their unit . I took in everything , including the fact that the soldiers could fall down and get back up and be b'simcha happy . " <p> Kornwasser visited the Supernova site , met wounded soldiers at Ichilov Hospital ( he recounted the story of a soldier with " 100 needles in his leg " ) , and heard what he describes as " stories of people who experienced the worst day and found a way to recover and get joy . " He adds , " The whole point is their resilience -- even after losing family and friends . " <p> These intense experiences got Kornwasser thinking . " I walked out of Ichilov Hospital and started to think -- ' I need to do something to show my friends what is happening in Israel ! ' " When he returned home and was " back to basketball and friends , " Kornwasser continued to wonder , " How can I inspire my friends and other people ? " <h> The making of Forces of Resilience <p> He started with a five-minute video which got 5,000 views online . He knew he was on to something . " This is something I can do to make a difference ! " <p> Kornwasser decided to make a movie to " help kids understand the magnitude of what happened . " He interviewed seven guests " to highlight resilience in different ways . " <p> THE 31-minute film begins with Kornwasser sitting at his desk upon his return home from the week-long trip to Israel . He is writing a letter that reads , " Dear courageous soldiers and dear brothers and sisters trapped in Gaza ... " He says that he is " flooded with thoughts and emotions " and notes that this is not like his past trips to Israel . <p> He clarifies , " My mission is to try to understand what happened to you on October 7 ... in the blink of an eye , it switched your reality from joy to horror . I dedicate this film to you . The true forces of resilience . " <p> Kornwasser explains that the goal is " for people to understand that if they the soldiers can fall down and find a way to be resilient and get back up , then so can we . " <p> The earnest and deeply spiritual Kornwasser introduces each guest , shares why they were chosen to be in the film , and offers some framing and context . For example , Kornwasser asks , " How did it happen ? How did we recover from the biggest massacre of the Jewish people since the Holocaust ? " <p> In introducing Airley , who joined him at the New Jersey movie premiere , he offers , " Her bitachon faith could have been broken when her son , Binyamin , was killed in northern Gaza . Instead , it became stronger . " <p> When he presents Breda , who helped raise $25,000 to provide tzitzit ( ritual fringes ) to Israeli soldiers " for spiritual protection , " Kornwasser says , " I want to take a minute to speak specifically to the teenage audience . " <p> As the film draws to a close , Kornwasser is back at his desk with his pen and pad . <p> " Dear courageous soldiers and brave brothers and sisters trapped in Gaza . Ten months have passed since my last letter to you . My mission to understand what makes you and our nation resilient has continued . Through meeting amazing individuals , I have learned about the force of survival , the force of positivity and bitachon , the force of song , the force of voice , and the force of pride . <p> " We can each find our own force and use it to make the Jewish nation strong and united . These forces come together in the most amazing way to produce a force of resilience . " <p> In the film 's credits , Kornwasser refers to his parents Laizer and Jessica as " the best mom and dad . " <p> " My parents have been absolutely amazing throughout the process -- the trip , recording in Israel , late-night feedback ... they have been the best ! " <p> Both are very proud of their son 's passion and his product . His mother says , " Hillel has been extremely devoted to this project since his visit to Israel last year . He feels passionately about sharing messages of resilience that stem from October 7 with his peers and the Jewish community . <p> " We are very proud of his commitment and perseverance in bringing this film to fruition . We are also proud of his sensitivity in speaking to those who went through difficult experiences and his focus on letting their voices be heard . " ?
