<h> From the right : Carter the Terrible <p> Jimmy Carter " was a terrible president but an even worse former president , " thunders National Review 's Philip A. Klein . His " true legacy is one of economic misery at home and embarrassment on the world stage . " " He left the country in its weakest position of the post-World War II era " and " spent the rest of his life meddling in U.S. foreign policy " in a " manner that could fairly be described as treasonous . " And that 's to say nothing about his " obsessive hatred of Israel . " We 'll see " an effort to rewrite history and claim that the 39th president was underappreciated and that people have been too harsh on him . But the truth is that historians have not been harsh enough . " <h> Conservative : Good Riddance to GEC Censorship <p> By denying it funding , Congress has forced " the Global Engagement Center , an office housed within the State Department . ? . ? . to close up shop , " cheers the Washington Examiner 's Gabe Kaminsky . " The taxpayer-backed GEC , " created in the name of thwarting misinformation , " violated its mandate to work only overseas and devolved into a partisan enabler of speech suppression in the United States " by granting funds " to the British Global Disinformation Index , which created a blacklist of " right-leaning US-based websites ( including The Post ) that reported on such stories as " the Hunter Biden laptop story and COVID-19 lab leak hypothesis . " The GEC " even circulated internal guidance with the aim of discrediting " critical reporters such as Kaminsky and Matt Taibbi . Its defunding " is a further vindication of our reporting on its seemingly unlawful activities . " <h> Media watch : Distorting Reality in Gaza <p> " Nothing is as it seems " in Gaza , fumes Commentary 's Seth Mandel . Take the Kamal Adwan Hospital and its medical director , Hussam Abu Safyia . The New York Times mentioned " dismissively " that Israel " claims " Hamas was using the hospital , and Safyia penned an opinion column griping about conditions . But a recent IDF raid on the site revealed it was in fact hosting 240 suspected terrorists , " including Safyia . " Many tried to flee . " It 's easy to see through the mainstream press 's smokescreen " around " medical staff and patients who are n't medical staff or patients , trying to flee the hospital that is n't a hospital . " " Journalists who are n't journalists , " " teachers who are n't teachers " and " aid workers who are n't aid workers -- who are these folks even trying to fool ? " <h> More From Post Editorial Board <h> From the left : Uncovered Story of the Year <p> Racket News ' Matt Taibbi notes that " 2024 was the year in which people we used to call ' elites ' " fell back on " trying to bulls ? - ? - ? t their way through crises holding no cards at all , " with " over-covered pseudo-stories " like " the politics of joy " and " ostentatious non-coverage of big , real questions , many still unanswered . " For one : " Who 's running the county ? " " We now know America has n't had a functioning president for at least this year and probably longer , which means someone other than the president has been making presidential decisions . " Indeed , " this real-world Dave script involves someone not named Biden steering presidential authority to approve billions for shooting wars in Ukraine and the Middle East , while handing out pardons in record numbers , among God knows how many other things . Is there even a word for fraud on that scale ? A lot of people need to go to jail behind this caper . " <h> Urban beat : Dems vs . ' Livable ' Cities <p> The horrific video of a " woman burning to death " on a Big Apple subway " is a snapshot of the city 's problems : crime , mentally deranged and intoxicated vagrants , undocumented migrants and unsafe subways , " observes The Wall Street Journal 's Allysia Finley . Though New York City 's " subways are a microcosm of its disorder , " it " seems to be an epidemic in big Democrat-controlled cities like Chicago , San Francisco and Los Angeles . " While " Democrats love to talk about making cities ' livable , ' ? " it 's " their high taxes , crime and chaos " that have made them " unbearable . " " When Christmas dinner conversations turn to a poor soul burned to death on a New York subway , Democrats have a five-alarm fire on their hands . "
