<p> The film was recently shortlisted for the 97th Academy Awards in the Best International Feature Film category . Billed as " a powerful collection of short films by 22 Palestinian filmmakers living through war in present-day Gaza , " the film blends " animation , documentary , and fiction " with " stories that capture the steadfastness of the human spirit and enduring creativity that thrives even in the face of relentless devastation . " The film premiered at the 5th Amman International Film Festival in July and had its North American premiere at the 49th Toronto International Film Festival in September . <p> In an official statement , Moore noted , " These Palestinian filmmakers have accomplished a cinematic miracle . They have made a brilliant film in the midst of what Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have now declared a genocide . The only weapons that Rashid and these 22 courageous Palestinian directors in Gaza have are their cameras and their creativity . No filmmaker , writer , or artist should ever have to tell the story of their own extermination . It 's an honor to stand in solidarity with them and help share their stories with the world . " <p> Director Rashid Masharawi expressed his gratitude and excitement , sharing in his own statement , " The team is both humbled and thrilled to be shortlisted . With Michael Moore 's involvement , we are even more empowered to portray the humanity and resilience of Palestinians , share their creativity with the world , and showcase the power of cinema as a force for justice and understanding . " <p> " Michael Moore 's passion for telling stories that challenge injustice aligns perfectly with our mission as a company . His expertise and commitment to social justice will be invaluable in helping us share these powerful , untold stories , and we are thrilled to have him join ' From Ground Zero , ' " added Hamza Ali , co-founder of Watermelon Pictures . <p> You can watch the trailer for " From Ground Zero " below . Watermelon Pictures will release the film in U.S. theaters on Friday , January 3.
