<p> Politicians talk a lot . They say moving things , insightful things , and incredibly dumb things . Whether it was a meticulously prepared speech , an off-the-cuff retort , or a late night social media post , 2024 was a year of dissecting , analyzing , mocking , and feeling the impact of political speech . <p> Amid a heated contest for the presidency , wars abroad , monumental Supreme Court decisions , and the trials of a former and now future president , a list of the year 's most memorable political quotes could feature hundreds of entries . We narrowed it down to 15 . <h> " We finally beat Medicare . " -- Joe Biden <p> Joe Biden 's lone debate against Donald Trump was an act of political self-immolation . The president began the debate hoarse and halting , with an unsteadiness that belied his age and now-blindingly-obvious decline . But Biden sealed his fate with an incomprehensible answer to a question about the national debt . First he mixed up billionaires and trillionaires , before pivoting to the need to " continue to strengthen our health care system . " Then , oddly touting " what I 've been able to do with the Covid , excuse me , with -- " In this moment , the president fully glitched , stalling out for full painful seconds of silence , before regaining his voice only to blurt out : " We finally beat Medicare . " <p> If the first part of his answer was like dousing his political career with petrol , the claim of having vanquished the nation 's most beloved social safety net program was the match . It took some weeks for the party machinery to formally oust him , but with that utterance , Biden 's storied political career as a senator , vice president , and president was over . ( Not that it merits anymore than a footnote , but a spokesperson later said of Biden : " He meant to say he beat Big Pharma. " ) -- TD <h> " They are eating the dogs . The people that came in , they are eating the cats . They are eating the pets of the people that live there . " -- Donald Trump <p> No soundbite better encapsulated the vitriolic , dishonest approach the Trump campaign took to immigration than the smear the president-elect leveled against Haitian migrants during his sole debate against Vice President Kamala Harris . <h> Editor 's picks <p> For weeks before the debate , right-wingers -- J.D. Vance , most notably -- had been spreading false allegations that Haitians in the town of Springfield , Ohio , were terrorizing the local population by killing and eating pet cats and local geese . It seemed inevitable that Trump would repeat the lie in public , and he did so on the biggest stage possible . <p> " In Springfield , they 're eating the dogs -- the people that came in -- they 're eating the cats , " he railed as the debate moderators attempted to fact check him . <p> Springfield 's immigrant population , most of which is documented and legal , has continued to exist under a cloud of harassment and fear -- especially following Trump 's electoral victory . -- NMR <h> " Not a thing that comes to mind . " -- Kamala Harris <p> Sometimes softball questions do more damage than the high heat . On a friendly appearance on The View in early October , Vice President Kamala Harris was asked if there 's anything she would have done differently than Joe Biden . Harris had taken over the top of the ticket for a man with an approval rate in the low 40s , and here was a chance to cut some of the dead weight , either by distancing herself from an unpopular Biden decision , or at least indicating how she might take the country in new directions . Instead , Harris -- out of caution or a misbegotten sense of loyalty to Biden -- deflected , insisting : " Not a thing that comes to mind . " <p> The answer was not only a missed opportunity , it became an albatross , enabling the Trump campaign to tie Harris to every last unpopular policy of the sitting president . ( Harris appeared to realize the error quickly . On another interview later in the day , she did highlight a difference that was hamfisted in its own way : " I 'm going to have a Republican in my Cabinet " ) -- TD <h> " V-E-R-G-O-G-N-A " -- Martha Ann Alito <p> Martha-Ann Alito , wife of Supreme Court Justice Samuel , has some thoughts about flags . We all learned back in the spring after reports that the Alitos were displaying flags associated with right-wing movements that question the legitimacy of the results of the 2020 election at their residences . <p> When asked about the upside-down American flag and the Appeal to Heaven flags at her homes , Martha-Ann told liberal documentary filmmaker Lauren Windsor about how much she dislikes seeing rainbow Pride flags during Pride Month and that she would like to fly a Sacred Heart of Jesus flag in response . Or she might design her own flag , she said , one sporting the Italian word for " shame . " <p> " I made a flag . It 's white and has yellow and orange flames around it . And in the middle is the word ' vergogna . ' ' Vergogna ' in Italian means shame -- vergogna . V-E-R-G-O-G-N-A . Vergogna. " -- LT <p> In a saturated media environment , Harris ' plainspoken vice presidential candidate broke through with a simple message about Trump and his MAGA minions . " These are weird people on the other side , " he said during a July appearance on MSNBC . Walz highlighted the GOP 's big government intrusions -- to ban books and " be in your exam room " -- and their lack of constructive ideas on health care and the economy . For a spell , the " weird " attack took hold , creating an avenue to highlight the unpalatable extremism of the MAGA platform . And it got under the skin of the GOP ticket . Both Trump and J.D. Vance tried to defend themselves from the charge -- " we 're not weird people , we 're actually just the opposite , " Trump said -- in ways that just underscored the point . For whatever reason ( see : cautious , overpaid , polling-pilled Democratic consultants ) the campaign dropped this organic , resonant attack ( as well as Harris ' battlecry of , " We 're not going back " ) for milquetoast slogans like : " A New Way Forward . " -- TD <p> " Arnold Palmer was all man , and I say that with all due respect to women , and I love women , " Trump said as part of his closing campaign message . " But this guy , this guy , this is a guy that was all man . This man was strong and tough . And I refuse to say it , but when he took showers with the other pros , they came out of there , they said , ' Oh my God , that 's unbelievable . ' I had to say it . " <p> Why did he feel the need to mention that the late legendary golfer was " all man " ? We 're still not sure , but he 's had an obsession with size for most of his political career ( from exaggerating the crowds attending his rallies , to the size of his hands and all it implies ) . <p> Trump called Kamala Harris a " shit VP " at that same rally for good measure , because when decorum has gone out the window , why the hell not ? -- AL <h> " I 'm not a church boy . " -- Robert F. Kennedy Jr . <p> One of the most disturbing allegations made against Robert F. Kennedy Jr . ' s over the course of his 2024 campaign did not involve vaccine conspiracies or a zoo of dead animals , but a sexual assault allegation that Kennedy responded to with a boys-will-be-boys attitude . <p> In July , Eliza Cooney , a former babysitter for the Kennedy family , told Vanity Fairthat RFK Jr . had assaulted her when she was 23 years old and working in his household . In response Kennedy told the publication that he was " not a church boy . " <p> " I said in my announcement speech that I have so many skeletons in my closet that if they could all vote , I could run for king of the world , " he added . <p> Kennedy wo n't be king of the world , but he 's slated to become one of the top public health officials in the country as Trump 's nominee to lead the Department of Health and Human Services . -- NMR <h> " I will give you a child and guard your cats with my life . " -- Elon Musk <p> Republicans have long been obsessed with Taylor Swift as a representative totem for all that they despise about successful , economically independent women more interested in their self fulfillment than domestic life and motherhood . It 's a weird fixation , and it became outright gag-inducing throughout the 2024 campaign cycle . <p> Trump credits the border and the economy for his win . He repeatedly tried to pin inflation on Biden , often highlighting the high cost of " groceries " -- a word he seemed to believe he coined himself . " I won on groceries , " he said on Meet the Press in December . " It 's a very simple word . Who uses the word ? I started using the word . " <p> He was even more awkward when invoking the term during an event at the Detroit Economic Club in October . " The word grocery , " he said . " You know , it 's a sorta simple word , but it sorta means like everything you eat . The stomach is speaking . It always does . " <p> Trump was apparently able to convince Americans he could bring down the price of everyday goods -- but now that he 's won he does n't seem so sure . In the same early-December interview with Meet the Press , Trump said he could n't " guarantee " he 'd bring costs down , and then insisted to Time that his presidency would n't be a failure if grocery prices remained high . " Look , they got them up . I 'd like to bring them down . It 's hard to bring things down once they 're up . You know , it 's very hard . But I think that they will . " -- RB <p> Vice President Kamala Harris made several attempts throughout her campaign to appeal to moderates by teasing a more conservative-coded attitude to flashpoint issues than your standard Democratic politician . It clearly did n't work , and none were more bizarre than her insistence that she owned a gun and was not afraid to shoot someone . <p> In several interviews -- when questioned about her views on gun control -- Harris told reporters that she was a gun owner ( a glock to be precise ) , and was not interested in taking away <p> Some found the bit outright absurd , while others were convinced it would pull moderates and some Republicans to Harris 's side . Unfortunately , while Harris still has her gun , she will not be standing her ground in the White House . -- NMR <h> " It would depend on the hypothetical but we can see that could well be an official act . " -- Trump lawyer D. John Sauer , arguing before the Supreme Court that the president could order the assassination of his political opponents and be immune from prosecution <p> This year , the Supreme Court handed down what could become one of the most consequential decisions in its history : granting presidents immunity from prosecution over " official " acts taken while in office . <p> The ruling in itself is a time bomb , one that effectively allows presidents to be criminals while in office -- as long as they can come up with a plausible " official " rationale for their actions and act through the levers of power at their disposal . During oral arguments in April , when Justice Sonya Sotomayor asked Trump attorney D. John Sauer whether " a president who ordered SEAL Team Six to assassinate a political rival " would " be subject to criminal prosecution . " <p> " It would depend on the hypothetical but we can see that could well be an official act , " Sauer responded . <p> The absurdity of the claim did not dissuade the conservatives of the court from ruling 6-3 in his favor in July . The ruling through the criminal cases against Trump into flux , and the Justice Department has since dropped both of theirs . -- NMR <h> " Women will be happy , healthy , confident , and free . You will no longer be thinking about abortion because it is now where it always had to be , with the states . " -- Donald Trump <p> There are myriad reasons , too many to list , why the incoming Trump administration poses a threat to our democracy , but the president-elect 's role in decimating Roe v. Wade already gave us insight of how our once-assumed inalienable rights and freedoms can be crushed under his vision . Trump is delusional , though , believing he 's done women a favor by helping axe the federal right to abortion . <p> During a rally in Wilmington , North Carolina , in September , Trump claimed women will be better off should he be reelected , claiming , " Women will be happy , healthy , confident , and free . You will no longer be thinking about abortion because it is now where it always had to be , with the states . " <p> Women have been thinking plenty about abortion since Trump 's Supreme Court killed Roe in 2023 , allowing states to ban the procedure . Many conservatives ones have , some even in cases of rape , incest , or when abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother . Meanwhile , 63 percent of U.S. adults in a Pew Research Center survey say abortion should be legal in all or most cases . -- AL <h> " Gerry 's a young 74. " -- Don Beyer <p> Joe Biden tanked Democrats ' chances to hold onto the White House by waiting until the end of July to drop out of the race despite clearly being too old to compete . Biden 's demise , as well as the nation 's dissatisfaction with establishment politicians , should have led the party to do some soul searching about its leadership . It is n't really happening , though . House Democrats overwhelmingly voted for Rep. Gerry Connolly ( D-Va. ) over Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez ( D-N.Y. ) to become the new ranking member of the House Oversight Committee . Connolly is 74 years old and was recently diagnosed with cancer , while AOC is a popular , progressive 35-year-old who has brought plenty of energy to her committee assignments . Rep. Don Beyer , Connolly 's fellow 74-year-old representative from Virginia , tried to spin the decision by claiming : " Gerry 's a young 74. " -- RB <h> " It is a red line , but I 'm never going to leave Israel . " -- Joe Biden <p> Since Oct. 7 , 2023 , when Hamas-led groups killed more than 1,200 Israelis and took 254 people hostage , Israel has led a brutal assault and near-total blockade on Gaza . Tens of thousands of Palestinians have been killed , millions have been forcibly displaced under orders of evacuation , and populations in northern Gaza are at imminent risk of famine . <p> President Joe Biden has periodically called on Israel to permit in more aid and enact temporary cease-fires , but he and his administration have continued to both financially and rhetorically support the Israeli war . In March , five months into the war , for the briefest moment , it seemed that posture could change , as Biden warned Israel not to invade Rafah in southern Gaza -- a maneuver that would force displaced Gazans to flee once again . He called it a " red line , " before immediately backtracking . " It is a red line , but I 'm never going to leave Israel , " Biden said . " The defense of Israel is still critical . So there 's no red line at which I 'm going to cut off all weapons so they do n't have the Iron Dome to protect them . " <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did not ultimately heed Biden 's warning , at first launching a limited invasion . Biden issued a new warning in May : " If they go into Rafah , I 'm not supplying the weapons that have been used historically to deal with Rafah , to deal with the cities -- that deal with that problem . " Those threats were ignored , too , and Israel has laid siege to Rafah . The war has continued , with U.S. support , and may well outlast Biden 's presidency . -- AP <h> " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " -- Donald Trump <p> Donald Trump ascended to deified status among his supporters when during a July 13 rally he survived an assassination attempt . <p> After a sniper 's bullet grazed Trump 's ear in Butler , Pennsylvania , Trump dropped to the ground before rising amid a gaggle of Secret Service agents attempting to rush him off of the rally stage . Raising a defiant fist , a bloody Trump shouted the words " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " to the panicked crowd . <p> The image of the moment , and Trump 's rallying cry , became iconic overnight , with his supporters declaring that God himself had spared Trump from death . Trump has made hay off of the incident in more ways than one . He 's currently selling " Fight ! Fight ! Fight ! " assassination attempt sneakers , cologne , and more . -- NMR
