<p> David Corenswet , the actor playing Superman , and Edi Gathegi , the actor playing Mister Terrific , return to their positions after a take . Filming for " Superman " was held various places in downtown Cleveland this summer.Joshua Gunter , cleveland.com <p> CLEVELAND , Ohio -- What a year it 's been for Northeast Ohio . From a Hollywood blockbuster taking over our streets to a historic celestial event , 2024 brought plenty of moments that made Cleveland shine . Throughout the year , the audience on cleveland.com 's Instagram page engaged with posts that showcased the highs , lows , and everything in between of life in Northeast Ohio . <p> cleveland.com 's social media team used reporting tools made available through Social News Desk , a social media management program , to pull data on every single social media post on our Instagram page between Jan. 1 and Dec. 1 . From there , we sorted the data for total engagement , which includes Instagram likes , comments and shares , to curate the 20 most popular Instagram posts of the year . <p> For the purpose of this list , we filtered out sports-specific content , which we 've shared in a separate story about the top sports posts on Facebook from 2024 . That article published on cleveland.com on Dec. 28 . <p> Let 's take a look back at the Top 20 cleveland.com Instagram posts that made 2024 unforgettable for Clevelanders : <p> 1 . ' Superman ' homecoming in Cleveland <p> This summer , director James Gunn brought the production of " Superman " to Cleveland , transforming the city into Metropolis . David Corenswet , who stars as Superman , was spotted in costume , and cleveland.com 's coverage captured worldwide attention . Photos and videos of iconic characters from the upcoming film were shared widely , marking the first public glimpses of the production . <p> For locals , these sightings carried extra significance , as the legendary superhero was created in Cleveland . One of cleveland.com 's posts , featuring what is likely the first-ever published video of David Corenswet in costume , racked up 18,813 likes , 279 comments , approximately 13,700 shares and about 519,000 views . Several additional " Superman " posts also saw impressive engagement . <p> A superhero in his own right , cleveland.com 's Instagram posts about Jim Donovan 's battle with cancer throughout 2024 touched the hearts of Clevelanders , all the way through his eventual death at age 68 in October . Our first post of the year about his journey garnered 12,731 likes , 94 comments and 72 shares . <p> One thing that was n't on the Northeast Ohio bingo card for 2024 was the viral appearance of a Browns-themed Tesla Cyber Truck dubbed the " Cyber Dawg " in homage to the Browns ' Dawg Pound . <p> Social media producer Josh Duke tracked down the owner to get the story behind the vehicle and the comments were ablaze with a mix of Browns fans cheering the owner on and others criticizing the truck . Our video post featuring the owner received 5,282 likes , 170 comments , 6,092 shares and approximately 161,000 views . <p> Cleveland found itself in the path of totality for the April 8 Total Solar Eclipse . A jaw-dropping photo by cleveland.com photographer David Petkiewicz captured the eclipse over Terminal Tower , leaving followers in awe . The post earned 8,101 likes , 29 comments and about 1,200 shares . <p> Food and entertainment reporter and DineDrinkCLE : The Podcast host Alex Darus ' preview video for Steak in Tremont had our Instagram audience eager to book a reservation . It 's no surprise given the whimsical presentation , trendy vibes and juicy steaks on display . The video garnered 3,937 likes , 25 comments , 5,283 shares , and approximately 113,000 views . <p> Frontier Airlines announced 10 new destinations from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport in February . The excitement was short-lived , as most routes were cut by August , but the initial news post garnered 3,337 likes , 90 comments and 3,300 shares . <p> News of Atlas Cinemas closing at Mayfield Heights ' Eastgate Shopping Center to make way for Dave &amp; Buster 's sparked mixed reactions . Some welcomed the new addition , while others lamented the location as a pour spot for the gaming space . The post received 2,272 likes , 183 comments and 4,300 shares . <p> In November 2023 , Ohio 's Issue 2 passed , legalizing recreational cannabis use . But the official start of recreational marijuana sales did n't occur until August 2024 . Our post announcing that Ohio regulators had greenlit dispensaries for recreational sales sparked excitement among our Instagram audience , as if a new state holiday had been unlocked . The post received 2,786 likes , 76 comments and approximately 3,800 shares . <p> The viral internet sensation known as " Hawk Tuah " girl sparked plenty of chatter -- mostly groans -- when she was announced to visit Welcome to the Farm in the Flats . The post garnered 1,995 likes , 392 comments and 4,300 shares . <p> Clevelanders showed their love for seafood when Cousins Maine Lobster announced regular appearances in the local food truck scene . Questions like " When ? " and " Where ? " flooded the comments of this post , which racked up 3,338 likes , 58 comments and 2,800 shares . <p> 15 . Pro-Palestinian protesters spray-painted at Case Western Reserve University <p> In the midst of the Israel-Hamas conflict , students at Case Western Reserve University painted a wall on campus with art and messages of support for Palestinians in Gaza , prompting the university to hire contractors to cover the wall with spray paint . In a striking video we shared on our Instagram page , pro-Palestinian protesters stood in front of the wall as workers sprayed white paint directly over them . The video received 2,594 likes , 797 comments , 2,348 shares and about 136,000 views . <p> Following the 2024 Presidential Election , in which Donald Trump reclaimed his position as Commander-in-Chief , we shared data reporter Zachary Smith 's voting results map for Cuyahoga County . It illustrated how the two candidates fared in the county . The post drew significant engagement , with people from both sides of the political spectrum commenting on their support or opposition to the communities that as a whole voted for or against their preferred candidate . The post received 2,827 likes , 295 comments and about 2,300 shares . <p> Our annual post listing Cleveland restaurants and stores that received the most food inspection violations left many followers shocked to see familiar names on the list . The post gathered 1,559 likes , 179 comments and 3,500 shares . <p> When food and entertainment reporter Alex Darus brought our Instagram audience to Majestic Meadows in Medina and showcased the wide range of exotic animals guests can get up close and personal with , our audience could n't get enough . The video received 2,953 likes , 29 comments , 2,364 shares and about 67,200 views . <p> In 1831 , the newspaper " The Cleveland Advertiser " changed the city 's name from " Cleaveland " to " Cleveland " to fit on the paper 's masthead . Our post marking the 193-year anniversary of the name change garnered 3,965 likes , 36 comments and 1,200 shares . <p> When we shared the announcement that 12-time Grammy winner ( and Ohio native ) John Legend was coming to Blossom Music Center for a special August show , our audience on Instagram largely said , " We 're there ! " Due to severe weather , the show had to be rescheduled without the Cleveland Orchestra . Our post sharing the announcement of the original concert date garnered 3,413 likes , 45 comments , and about 1,500 shares . <p> If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site , we may receive compensation . By using this site , you consent to our User Agreement and agree that your clicks , interactions , and personal information may be collected , recorded , and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our Privacy Policy .
