<h> Netanyahu is getting his prostate removed as he faces crises on multiple fronts <p> TEL AVIV , Israel ( AP ) -- Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is having his prostate removed on Sunday , his office said , a procedure that comes as he manages multiple crises at once , including the ongoing war in Gaza and his own trial for alleged corruption . <p> Netanyahu , who has had a string of health issues in recent years , has gone to great lengths to bolster a public image of himself as a healthy , energetic leader . During his trial this month he boasted about working 18-hour days , even if those long hours are accompanied by a cigar . But as Israel 's longest-serving leader , such a grueling workload over a total of 17 years in power could also take a toll on his well-being . <p> The procedure has already had a fallout : Netanyahu 's lawyer Amit Hadad said in a letter to the court the Israeli prime minister would be fully sedated for the procedure and would be hospitalized for " a number of days , " asking that his three days of testimony this week be canceled . The court agreed . <p> Netanyahu 's office said that Justice Minister Yariv Levin , a close Netanyahu ally , would serve as acting prime minister during the procedure . <p> With so much at stake in the turbulent region , Netanyahu 's health in wartime is a concern for both Israelis and the wider world . <h> Prostate issues are common for older men , and recovery can be quick <p> According to Netanyahu 's office , the Israeli leader was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection on Wednesday stemming from a benign enlargement of his prostate . The infection was treated successfully with antibiotics but a procedure on Sunday will remove his prostate . <p> Complications from prostate enlargement are common in men in their 70s and 80s , Dr. Shay Golan , head of the oncology urology service at Israel 's Rabin Medical Center , told Israeli Army Radio . Golan spoke in general terms about the procedure and was not involved in Netanyahu 's care or treatment . <p> He said that an enlarged prostate can block proper emptying of the bladder , leading to a build-up of urine that can then lead to an infection or other complications . After medicinal treatment , doctors can recommend a procedure to remove the prostate to prevent future blockages , Golan said . <p> In Netanyahu 's case , because the prostate is not cancerous , Golan said doctors will likely perform an endoscopic surgery , which is carried out by inserting small instruments into a body cavity , rather than making any surgical cuts in the abdomen to reach the prostate . <p> The procedure lasts about an hour , Golan said , and recovery is quick . Golan also said that aside from catheter use for one to three days after the procedure , patients can return to normal activity without any significant limitations . <h> Netanyahu has had some health issues before , including a heart condition <p> Netanyahu insists he is in excellent health and his office has worked to craft a public image that backs that up . It releases footage of him touring war zones in full protective gear flanked by gruff military officers , or meeting with defense officials on windswept hilltops in youthful dark shades and puffer jackets . <p> But that image was shattered last year when Netanyahu 's doctors revealed that he had a heart condition , a problem that he had apparently long known about but concealed from the public . <p> A week after a fainting spell , Netanyahu was urgently fitted with a pacemaker to control his heartbeat . Only then did staff at the Sheba Medical Center reveal that Netanyahu has for years experienced a condition that can cause irregular heartbeats . <p> That revelation came at a time when Netanyahu was dealing with massive anti-government protests . The news about a chronic heart problem stoked further anger and distrust at a time of extreme political polarization in Israel . <p> Last year , Netanyahu was rushed to the hospital for what doctors said likely was dehydration , where he stayed overnight , prompting his weekly Cabinet meeting to be delayed . <p> Earlier this year , Netanyahu underwent hernia surgery , during which he was under full anesthesia and unconscious . His close confidant , Justice Minister Yariv Levin , served as acting prime minister during the operation . <h> The surgery comes at a turbulent time in the region <p> As Israel 's leader , Netanyahu is at the center of major global events that are shifting the Middle East . With the dizzying pace of the past 14 months , being incapacitated for even a few hours can be risky in the current regional maelstrom . <p> The health issue also shines a new light on Netanyahu 's age . Prostate issues are common and in many cases easily treatable . But they are prominent especially among older men . <p> The procedure puts a dent in Netanyahu 's image of vigor at a time when he would want to project strength more than ever , both to an Israeli audience navigating constant threats as well as to Israel 's enemies looking to expose Israel 's weaknesses . <p> ( Copyright ( c ) 2024 The Associated Press . All Rights Reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten , or redistributed. )
