<h> 60 Minutes goes inside the Vatican with Pope Francis <p> On this week 's 60 Minutes , correspondent Norah O'Donnell sat down with Pope Francis for a historic interview . The head of the Catholic Church for more than a decade , Francis had previously never spoken at length withan English-language American broadcast network . <p> In a wide-ranging conversation lasting more than an hour , O'Donnell spoke with the pontiff about such topics as the wars in Ukraine and in Israel and Gaza ; the Church 's handling of its sexual abuse scandals ; and the conservative backlash against the pope 's more progressive approach . <p> Born Jorge Mario Bergoglio in Argentina , Francis is the first Jesuit pope in papal history . O'Donnell interviewed him at Casa Santa Marta , the Vatican guest house where he has lived since his election in 2013 , rather than the papal apartments in the Apostolic Palace , where popes have historically resided . <p> O'Donnell said the pontiff was generous with his time and asked to greet the whole production crew before beginning the interview . <p> " I think what you see in the interview with Pope Francis is just how warm he is , engaging , " O'Donnell said . " He 's funny . He 's very thoughtful on a number of issues . " <p> One issue Francis stays informed on is the war in Gaza . There is one Catholic church in the Gaza Strip , the Holy Family Church , and the pontiff told O'Donnell he calls there every evening at 7 p.m. and speaks with the priest , Father Youssef Asaad . Some 600 Gazans -- Catholic and non-Catholic alike -- have taken shelter in the church compound , which is in the north of Gaza City . <p> " I listen , " the pope told O'Donnell through an interpreter . " The other day they were happy because they managed to eat some meat . The rest of the time they eat flour , things made of flour . Sometimes they go hungry . And they tell me things . And the other people there also speak to me at times . There is a lot of suffering . " <p> According to the Jesuit publication America , Francis in October sent $67,000 to the Gaza parish . Last weekend , the pontiff criticized Israel 's actions in the territory and called for a ceasefire , according to Al Jazeera . <p> CBS News ' O'Donnell , who was raised Catholic and attended the Jesuit-founded Georgetown University in Washington , D.C. , said her background was helpful in understanding the language , teachings , and doctrine of the Catholic Church , including those that are controversial or unpopular . <p> " The Catholic Church is at a crossroads , no doubt , because of the sex abuse scandal and because many people think that the Catholic Church is out of touch with modern times , " O'Donnell said . <p> During the interview , she asked Francis about the state of the Catholic Church and the fact that many Catholics in the U.S. do n't attend mass anymore regularly on Sunday . <p> " I would tell them that there is always a place , always , " Francis answered . " If in a certain parish , the priest is not accessible , I understand . Let them find another . But there is always a place in the Church for each and every one . " <p> During his papacy , Francis has tried to be more inclusive while not changing the doctrine of the church . Under his leadership , the church has welcomed same-sex couples and divorced Catholics , a departure from the traditional teachings of the church . The pontiff has also spoken out on issues such as climate change . <p> Because this more progressive approach has created a division with traditionalists , O'Donnell asked him how he saw his legacy . <p> " Church is the legacy , the Church not only through the pope , but through you , through every Christian , through everyone ... " Francis answered . " We all leave a legacy , and institutions leave a legacy . It 's a beautiful progression . I get on the bandwagon of the Church 's legacy for everybody . " <p> The video above was originally published on May 19 , 2024 . It was produced by Brit McCandless Farmer and edited by Scott Rosann . <p> Brit McCandless Farmer is a digital producer for 60 Minutes , where her work has been recognized by the Webby , Gracie , and Telly Awards . Previously , Brit worked at the CBS Weekend Evening News , CBS This Morning , CNN , and ABC News .
