<h> The remote Kazakh Steppe that became a gateway to space <p> A Soyuz landing module lies on the Kazakh Steppe shortly after its return to Earth from the International Space Station . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> CNN -- <p> Space travel 's documentarians have long been preoccupied by departures -- launchpads engulfed in billowing smoke and flames shooting from ascendant rocket boosters . But after seeing footage of a Russian Soyuz spacecraft crash down on the remote Kazakh Steppe 10 years ago , photographer Andrew McConnell became more enraptured by astronauts ' unceremonious return to Earth . <p> " Every three months , this capsule would land in the middle of nowhere , and no one was really going to see it , " he recalled of the astronauts , of various nationalities , returning from the International Space Station ( ISS ) . " It was sort of an obscure event , but such an extraordinary one , " added McConnell in a video call from Enniskillen , Northern Ireland . <p> McConnell , who often works in conflict zones ( and had just returned from assignment in Gaza ) , said he felt compelled to document a " positive human enterprise " rather than " just misery and suffering . " So , in 2015 , he embarked on the first of over a dozen trips to Kazakhstan , where manned Soyuz craft -- or rather their conical three-person landing capsules , no larger than a car -- return to Earth with their human cargo . <p> NASA 's Kate Rubins , Anatoly Ivanishin of the Russian Federal Space Agency and Takuya Onishi of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency after returning to Earth on Soyuz MS-01 in 2016 . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> NASA had decommissioned its Space Shuttle program four years earlier , meaning the former Soviet republic was , at the time , the only gateway to the ISS . With the help of local photographers , McConnell contacted the crew that intercepts the capsules after their three-and-a-half-hour journey to Earth . <p> He camped out with them on the grasslands northeast of the Russian-owned Baikonur Cosmodrome ( where Soyuz missions depart from ) , waiting for what he called the " big explosion in the sky " that marked the spacecraft 's reentry . The ground team would then assess the wind 's impact on the capsule 's trajectory before racing across the steppe in Jeeps to meet it . <p> Initially , McConnell hoped to capture portraits of the astronauts immediately after landing . ( " What would these people 's faces show after such a momentous event ? " he had wondered . ) But the reality of their return was not as profound as one might imagine : " They put hats on them , and give them a bunch of flowers , maybe a phone , and they 're like , ' Hey , Mom , yeah , I 'm back , " " he said . <p> On that first trip in 2015 , however , the Irish photographer encountered a different phenomenon -- one he had not anticipated : The arrival of villagers from one of the few settlements in the sparsely populated region . <p> A shepherd on the Kazakh Steppe , where Soyuz craft land after their journey from the Earth 's thermosphere . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> Villagers in Kazakhstan 's Karaganda region , to the east of the Russian-owned Baikonur Cosmodrome . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> " This little white car appeared on the horizon , and it drove up to us , weaving through these massive Russian Air Force helicopters that were sitting on the steppe , " McConnell recalled . " They were locals who 'd come to see this extraordinary thing happening in their backyard . I was just fascinated by this ; it had n't occurred to me that people actually live here . " <h> Two worlds collide <p> So , while some of McConnell 's images feature renowned astronauts like Tim Peake and Kate Rubins , his new photo book is more about the Kazakh communities whose lives have become inadvertently intertwined with space travel . <p> Portraits of nomads on horseback appear alongside everyday scenes around Kenjebai-Samai , the village in which the photographer stayed before venturing onto the grasslands . The image of a young girl climbing on a makeshift fence made from space debris speaks to the curious indifference McConnell encountered among locals . <p> " They were , surprisingly , unfamiliar with the landings . Some people in the village said they 'd seen it once , and had gone out look at it , " he said , adding : " ( The kids ) are curious what these objects are , and they have a basic understanding that this thing happens somewhere ' over there . ' But no one 's bringing them over to see it . ( The landings happen ) 30 kilometers away , but it may as well be 300 miles away . " <p> A girl plays on spacecraft debris on the grasslands . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> Yet , the photographer saw strange parallels between these coexisting worlds : " You have the modern-day nomad -- the astronaut -- and the original nomads . And that 's sort of the heart of the whole book : a contrast between the two ... It 's extraordinary the different lives we lead on this planet , and that these two worlds collide here . " <p> The book 's other protagonist is the steppe itself . McConnell 's photos of this " portal to space , " as he described it , depict a vast , empty landscape littered with the detritus of space travel and scarred with open-pit coal mines . <p> At times , the otherworldly scenes evoke a remote alien planet -- an ambiguity the photographer exploits to powerful effect . His striking image of a ground crewmember approaching a Soyuz capsule , a wall of dust cloud before him , could easily be a faraway world in a science fiction movie . The book 's title , " Some Worlds Have Two Suns , " and the absence of accompanying captions , further suspends readers ' disbelief about where the images might be set . <p> " I was struck by how , sometimes , you did n't know what planet you were on , " McConnell said . " You think , ' well , this might be Earth , but could this be another world ? ' " <p> Two men on horseback with centuries-old ancestral tombs close to where Soyuz descent modules land back on Earth . <p> Andrew McConnell <h> Cold War relic <p> Kazakhstan 's role in Russia 's space program dates to the 1950s , when it was still part of the USSR . Located beside the Ural Mountains , a traditional dividing line between Europe and Asia , the arid steppe was further south -- and thus closer to the equator -- than most of Russia , shortening the journey to the thermosphere the ISS inhabits . <p> The Baikonur Cosmodrome played a central role in both space travel and the Cold War . Humankind 's first ever artificial satellite , Sputnik , was launched there in 1957 . So , too , were Laika the dog and Yuri Gagarin , who became the first human in space in 1961 . The Soyuz ( " union " in Russian ) program began five years later and has since completed more than 1,600 missions . <p> After the Iron Curtain fell and Kazakhstan gained independence in 1991 , Russia continued to lease the land on which the cosmodrome stands . And while McConnell was largely focused on the steppe , he visited the facility several times , capturing everything from gargantuan launchpads to intimate shots of astronauts undergoing spacesuit checks ahead of launch . <p> McConnell saw locals using old rocket parts for garages , fences and coal stores . <p> Andrew McConnell <p> In a sense , these photos document the end of an era for Kazakhstan 's ( and , in McConnell 's view , Russia 's ) role in spacefaring . The Russian space agency Roscosmos now operates a similar facility on its own soil , in Siberia , rendering the Baikonur Cosmodrome increasingly obsolete . Moreover , Soyuz craft are no longer the only way to transport crew to and from the ISS : In 2020 , SpaceX 's Crew Dragon began shuttling passengers to the space station from US soil , while Boeing launched a manned Starliner test mission earlier this year . <p> " Investment is n't there anymore , " McConnell said of Russia 's space program . " Their innovation is n't there . If you look at what SpaceX is doing now , it 's just extraordinary . And so , this place where it all began , I think , will fade -- and that 's part of the story too . "
