<h> Surviving 2024 in Gaza <p> A Palestinian walks among the rubble of buildings destroyed by the Israeli army in Beit Lahiya in the northern Gaza Strip on June 12 , 2024 Mahmoud Issa/Reuters <p> When I was a child , I dreamed of travelling the world , exploring new cultures and learning new things . I yearned for a journey of discovery . Living in Gaza felt like sitting in the stands , watching the world 's achievements -- its development , progress and technological marvels -- unfold from afar without being able to participate . <p> It was both a sanctuary and a cage -- its regular rhythm comforting yet repetitive , its streets too familiar , its horizons too narrow for the aspirations I carried within me . I cherished its warmth and closeness , but the pull of life beyond its borders was irresistible . I was ready to leave the moment an opportunity came my way . <p> This year , I did embark on a journey , but not the one that I had dreamed of . Instead of a trip of carefree exploration abroad , I found myself on a journey navigating a genocidal war and a struggle for survival within the narrow strip of Palestinian land I call home . Along the way , I learned a lot -- about myself and my inner world . <p> The " journey " began in January . While most people welcomed the new year under skies filled with fireworks , songs and joy , my sky delivered evacuation orders . Crumpled papers fell on us carrying a message written in Arabic : " Nuseirat camp is too dangerous . Move south for your safety . " <p> Advertisement <p> I never thought leaving home would be that difficult . I had always thought of myself as someone who did not have a strong connection to home or homeland . But I was wrong . Leaving felt like abandoning a part of my soul . <p> My family and I made our way to Rafah to stay with my aunt who gave us a warm welcome . Even though I felt some comfort there , in my mind , all I could think about was my home . So I greeted February , the " month of love " , feeling incredibly homesick and realising just how much I loved the house I had grown up in . <p> In mid-February , the Israeli military withdrew from Nuseirat , and we hurried back home . It was one of the best moments of the war -- and of my entire life -- to find my home still intact . Its front door was broken , our belongings were stolen and rubble from the bombing of our neighbour 's home had crashed inside . But it was still standing . <p> Although destruction surrounded us , the rubble of our neighbourhood still felt warmer than any safe place elsewhere in the world would have . For the first time in my life , I -- the grandson of refugees -- felt I belonged somewhere . My soul , my identity -- they all belonged here . <p> The joy of being back home was soon overshadowed by the reality of war . March came and brought in the holy month . For Muslims , Ramadan is a time of spiritual peace , prayer and togetherness . But this year , it was filled with loss , separation and deprivation . There were no shared meals or family gatherings , no mosques to pray in -- only their rubble . <p> Instead of tranquillity , we experienced relentless bombardment and terror . The bombs fell without warning , each explosion shattering any sense of safety we may have had . We were being punished , treated as " human animals " -- as their defence minister had said -- for an unknown crime . <p> Advertisement <p> In April , Eid al-Fitr came and went , stripped of the joy that defines this cherished Muslim holiday . There was no children 's laughter to wake us in the morning , no bustling preparations or decorations to welcome guests . Death was the only visitor in Palestinian homes in Gaza . <p> Then May rolled in and with it an opportunity I had been waiting for my whole life . My family managed to gather enough money to pay an Egyptian company to help me leave Gaza . The process was riddled with uncertainty . There were rumours of scams , bribes and rejections . <p> The thought of escaping the relentless horror around me was intoxicating . I wanted freedom , but it came at a cost . I was to leave my whole family behind and my home with an uncertain prospect of ever coming back . <p> To outsiders , this might seem like a simple choice : follow your dreams , take the chance and leave ! But for me , it was anything but easy . <p> One late afternoon , I was sitting with my sister Aya on our rooftop under a sky filled with spy planes when I came to realise the true weight of my decision . Aya , just 15 years old , was full of energy and hope , her light brown eyes shining with ambition . " I want to learn programming like you , " she said with excitement . " I want to start my own business like you . I want to improve my English like you . " <p> How could I leave her and my family in the midst of war ? Did I deserve a better life while Aya stayed behind , struggling to eat , to sleep , to dream ? How could I live a life elsewhere , knowing my sister faced nightmares alone ? How could I abandon the very land that had made me who I am ? <p> Advertisement <p> In that moment , I realised my soul would never be free if I abandoned Gaza now , if I dismissed it as a place of rubble and ruin . I realised my identity was tied to this place , this struggle . <p> When I first told my family that I wanted to stay , they refused to accept it . They insisted I leave to survive , fearing for my safety . After a long back and forth , they eventually respected my decision , but their fear never fully went away . <p> A few days later , the Israeli army occupied the Rafah crossing , cutting off access to the outside world . I did not regret my decision . <p> As the Israeli army continued to attack civilian areas all over Gaza , displacing hundreds of thousands of people , it was our turn to host relatives . We welcomed them not as displaced people but as our family . It is our duty to share and stand with each other in times of need . By the fall , we were 30 people in our house . <p> Over the summer , we began to feel the growing impact of restrictions not only on humanitarian aid but on all paid goods . Basic food items disappeared from markets . Aid organisations struggled to distribute food . <p> It was increasingly clear that those who survive the bombings would face a different , slower death through starvation . Food rationing became so severe that survival turned into a cruel competition . Life felt more like a jungle where only the strongest could survive . <p> In the fall , hunger was made worse by the rain and wind . We saw people forced to live in tents overcome by misery . <p> In November , a family tragedy struck . My eight-year-old cousin Ahmad , who was like a little brother to me , fell from the third floor of our building and suffered a brain haemorrhage . The thought of losing him was overwhelming . <p> Advertisement <p> We rushed him to Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital , which was overcrowded with the wounded from air strikes and lacked the necessary equipment to perform brain scans . We tried to go to two nearby hospitals , only to be told they too could not do anything for him . By nightfall , we managed to find a medical centre that could help him , but it was far away . Sending him in an ambulance after dark was a huge risk -- the vehicle could be targeted by a drone like so many had been . It was a choice between two deaths . <p> We decided to hang onto hope and sent Ahmad in the ambulance . Even in the darkest of days , miracles happen . Ahmad arrived safely , underwent the necessary surgery and survived . He began to recover although he still needs physical therapy that he can not receive in Gaza . <p> As we worried and cared for Ahmad , December came . Soon we heard unexpected news from Syria : The brutal regime there had collapsed . I felt extremely happy . <p> In Gaza , we have stood in solidarity with the Syrian people for a long time . We know the suffering of war and oppression , and we were genuinely happy to see the Syrian people finally free . Their liberation was the first time we witnessed justice prevail , which gave us a sense of hope . It reminded us that one day , we too might experience that kind of relief , in a liberated homeland where we are no longer afraid for our lives . <p> As the year drew to a close , we followed carefully the news about ceasefire talks , but 2024 is now ending without a moment of relief for us Palestinians . <p> Advertisement <p> This yearlong journey has left its mark on me : streaks of white in my black hair , a frail body , ill-fitting clothes , dark shadows beneath my eyes and a tired gaze that has lost its shine . But it is not just my physical appearance that has changed . This year has burned through my soul like wildfire . <p> But even ashes carry seeds . I feel that something new has emerged within me -- a determination to stay behind , to persevere , to change , to withstand all attempts to erase my memories , my identity , my people . <p> The death and destruction have been overwhelming , but they have not managed to bring me down . If anything , I feel a deep desire to live -- for many more years -- in Gaza , in Palestine . I feel we owe a duty to the martyrs to resist , to stay on this land , to rebuild and to live . The responsibility of restoring our country rests on our shoulders . <p> I am no longer the man I once was , full of dreams of leaving Gaza and living an easy life far away . I will remain in my homeland , and I will continue to hold onto the belief that peace , no matter how fragile , can someday return to Gaza . I will continue to dream of a Palestine where its people can finally be free . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
