<h> The meaning of Chanukah : My holiday wish for an Israel at war <h> Share this : <p> Israeli army reservists light a nine-branched menorah candelabrum during a protest against a bill that will grant exemption of ultra-Orthodox Jews from serving in the army , in front of the Israeli Defense Ministry in Tel Aviv on December 26 , 2024 . ( Photo by JACK GUEZ/AFP via Getty Images ) <p> This Chanukah I join Jews around the world in celebrating Israel 's recent military victories , that parallel the holiday 's commemoration of the Maccabees ' triumphant war against the powerful Syrians , more than two millennia ago . Yet , in disabling her enemies Israel may have elevated internal forces that will make it painful for liberal Zionists like myself to embrace the Jewish state . <p> I had neither visited nor cared much about Israel until my late 30s , when I toured the country . The endless desert sand , the gold-topped Dome of the Rock set against a cloudless sky , the black-garbed Haredi set against the Western Wall 's white stone , the uniformed soldier with a rifle draped over his shoulder , carrying a challah loaf , the Holocaust survivor sobbing as he told his story of survival to our tour group , filled a hole in my psyche I never knew existed . <p> I suddenly felt linked to the Jewish state and its biblical promise to be a light among the nations . <p> When I returned to New York City I took Jewish education courses , to learn about my religious heritage . I eventually married an observant woman , who has many Israeli relatives . <p> My Jewish immersion coincided with the hopefulness of the Oslo accords . A nation great enough to make peace with its enemies became my lodestar for the Jewish state . <p> For many years I have done organizing work to promote a peaceful resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . But Israel has drifted far from this vision , culminating in its current government 's outspoken goal of annexing the West Bank , while degrading the rights of Arab Israelis . <p> An Israeli I met in Brooklyn , who shared my hopes for a two-state solution , told me that he had no sympathy for Gaza 's civilians . According to him , they were all aligned with Hamas . <p> Several months ago I visited Israel , when four hostages were rescued in a military operation that killed 40 civilians . The nation was understandably ecstatic , but the civilian deaths went unremarked upon by most Israelis . " I know we are a traumatized people , but not to even notice that 40 people lost their lives . " an exasperated Israeli , who I knew from New York , said to me . <p> " Where has our humanity gone ? " She asked . <p> The next day I had lunch with a friend in Jerusalem , who identified with Israel 's political left . " The foreign press highlighted the civilians who were killed , " my friend said , talking about the rescue mission . " F ? - ? - ? k them . " <p> Driven by the insecurity and shame of centuries of Jewish powerlessness , Israel 's military victories can easily translate into a reflexive triumphalism . I fear that Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu 's refusal to heed America 's call for restraint , and to prioritize a hostage deal , will be seen as proof that force and confrontation , rather than compromise and negotiation , are the keys to Israel 's future ; that the extremist 's goal of annexing the West Bank and establishing settlements in Gaza will come to define the Jewish zeitgeist . <p> The prospect of a Zionism that values conflict over coexistence is disorienting . My attachment to Israel and her people are an essential part of my makeup , which could leave me with an unresolvable internal contradiction -- an aspect of my identity that clashes with the rest of my persona . <p> Still , I know Israelis who are fighting against their country 's extremist tendencies , through protest and political organizing . During one of my trips to Israel I marched with many of these liberal Zionists in a demonstration against their right-wing government . They are the Israelis I feel closest to , which includes many of my relatives , who are deeply patriotic and deeply disturbed by their homeland 's illiberal turn . <p> With Hamas , Hezbollah , and Iran on the defensive , Israel will have the opportunity to redefine itself . The choices Israelis make will help determine the course of Judaism , and how Jews around the world see themselves . <p> It is worth noting that the Maccabees were religious zealots , who employed cruelty to enforce their intolerant views . Religious scholars believe that the fictional miracle of one day 's worth of oil lasting eight days was added as a way of diluting the story 's martial aspect . Hopefully today 's military triumph 's will not unleash the type of cruelty that will cause future generations of Jews to downplay the IDF 's accomplishments . <p> For this holiday season my wish is that Israel and Jewish communities around the world are bathed in the light of tolerance , rather than the darkness of zealotry.
