<h> Three consequential foreign policy decisions of Jimmy Carter <h> The 39th President of the United States completed the diplomatic normalisation process with China , launched the policy of supporting the Afghan Mujahideen against the community government in Kabul and its Soviet backers and brokered the Camp David agreement between Egypt and Israel , which also called for the establishment of Palestinian self-rule in occupied territories <p> Former President Jimmy Carter poses for a portrait during the Toronto International Film Festival , Sept. 10 , 2007 , in Toronto . Photo Credit : AP <p> When Jimmy Carter , the 39th President of the U.S. , exited the White House in 1981 , he was largely written off as an inconsequential leader . The U.S. economy was stagnant . Inflation and unemployment were stubbornly high . In 1979 , the Shah of Iran , an American ally , was overthrown by a popular revolution . An Iranian mob seized the U.S. embassy and took 52 Americans hostage . A commando operation aimed at rescuing the hostages turned out to be a disaster in the Iranian deserts . In 1978 , communists took over Kabul , allowing the Soviet Union to expand its influence to the borders of Pakistan , America 's South Asian ally . A year later , the Soviets sent troops to Afghanistan . Carter , a Democrat , sought re-election in 1980 with the image of a weak President . And he was easily defeated by Republican Ronald Reagan <h> China <p> Mr. Carter , who died on Sunday at age 100 , lived long enough to see historians taking a kinder view of his legacy . From his energy policies to his emphasis on human rights , many today laud him as a visionary . He also reinvented the post-presidency life , placing himself at the centre of America 's liberal internationalism , and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2002 . While the debate over his legacy continues , it 's not difficult to see that at least three foreign policy decisions he made continued to define his record in the White House and set a new direction for American foreign policy for decades . <p> One , Mr. Carter seized the momentum created by Richard Nixon 's diplomatic breakthrough with communist China and took quick steps to complete the normalisation process . One of the sticking points in talks was the status of Taiwan . China wanted the U.S. to recognise the One China policy . The Carter administration agreed to pull back American military presence from Taiwan and the Taiwan Strait , cut diplomatic ties with Taipei and establish full diplomatic relations with Beijing . However , Washington insisted that it would continue to maintain defence and commercial ties with Taiwan , a position China agreed . The normalisation agreement was announced in December 1978 by Carter and China 's leader Deng Xiaoping . The rapprochement Nixon initiated was institutionalised by Carter . It evolved into an anti-Soviet quasi alliance under Reagan , and a post-COld War pro-business partnership under Bill Clinton . <h> Afghanistan <p> When the communist People 's Democratic Party of Afghanistan ( PDPA ) captured power in Kabul in 1978 , the Americans remained helpless spectators . But when Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev decided to send troops to Afghanistan , the U.S. saw it as an opportunity . It was President Carter who launched the policy of supporting the Afghan Mujahideen against the communist government in Kabul and its Soviet backers . His National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski travelled to Pakistan , met the Afghan refugees and the Mujahideen and promised American support . The American policy was to fund and train the Afghan tribal warlords , with help from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia , in their fight against communism . Reagan would embrace this policy with open hands in later years . Ten years after its military intervention , the Soviets were forced to withdraw from Afghanistan by February 1989 . In the same year , Soviet-aligned communist governments in eastern Europe would fall one after another , leading to the eventual collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 . Within months , the PDPA government in Kabul would also fall . The American policy , critics would argue , had played a role in the destruction of Afghanistan and the rise of the Taliban in 1996 . But what Washington wanted was to defeat the Soviets in Afghanistan and they achieved it in 1989 . <h> Israel-Palestine <p> Mr. Carter 's most profound achievement was perhaps the Camp David Accords of 1978 . The agreements , signed between Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat , was a signature moment in the Arab-Israeli conflict . In October 1973 , Egypt and Syria launched a surprise attack against Israel . Israel had captured Egypt 's Sinai Peninsula and Syria 's Golan Heights , along with Palestinian West Bank , Gaza and East Jerusalem , in the 1967 war . With American help Israel managed to push back the Egyptians and the Syrians in 1973 , but the attack remained a shock in Israel 's psyche . <p> Mr. Carter sensed an opportunity for peace between Egypt and Israel and pushed for it . He also said he could not ignore the plight of the Palestinians . Egypt wanted Sinai back and Israel to recognise Palestinian sovereignty . Begin initially resisted the pressure tactics of Egypt and the U.S. , but finally gave in . As part of the agreement , Israel agreed to return Sinai back to Egypt and establish a self-rule administration in the occupied Palestinian territories . In return Egypt became the first Arab country to recognise the state of Israel . The Framework for Peace in the Middle East agreement , which promised Palestinian self rule , was the foundation on which the Oslo Accords of the 1990s and the promise of the two-state solution were built . <p> Even after exiting the White House , Carter remained a strong supporter of the Palestinian cause . " In my opinion it was imperative that the United States work to obtain for these Palestinian people the right to vote , the right to assemble , and to debate issues that affected their lives , the right to own property without fear of it 's confiscated , and the right to be free of military rule . To deny these rights was an indefensible position for a free and democratic society . " Carter wrote in his memoir , Keeping Faith . <h> Comments <p> Comments have to be in English , and in full sentences . They can not be abusive or personal . Please abide by our community guidelines for posting your comments . <p> We have migrated to a new commenting platform . If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in , you may continue to engage with our articles . If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments . Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
