<p> Citing dissatisfaction over the Left 's stance on war , immigration , gender ideology , and more , several prominent Democrats made waves for defying their party about President-elect Donald Trump during a political cycle like none other . <p> Here 's a rundown of 11 of them . <h> The mayors <p> The progressive Muslim mayor of Hamtramck , Michigan , announced in September he was endorsing Trump , citing a belief the former president could end the war in Gaza . A Yemeni immigrant , Mayor Amer Ghalib was a member of the pro-Palestinian Uncommitted movement and was disgruntled that Vice President Kamala Harris never differentiated herself from President Joe Biden 's Middle Eastern policy . Ghalib 's move signaled an alarm sign that Arab support for Harris was on the decline in Michigan , which ultimately proved to be true . <p> New York City Mayor Eric Adams also made waves for his friendly overtures to the GOP this year after often clashing with the president-elect during his first term in the White House . The Democratic New Yorker has lambasted the Biden administration over its border policies and signaled in November readiness to work with Trump on targeting illegal immigration . <p> The bromance reached its peak in December after Adams indicated Trump was a " great patriot , " and the president-elect left the door to pardoning the mayor after he was criminally indicted in September . Adams has also compared the New York indictment leveled at Trump to the one brought against himself , suggesting that both were politically weaponized by Biden 's Justice Department . <p> Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson did n't just make overtures to Republicans . As the leader of one of the country 's largest cities , Johnson announced in Sept. 2023 that he was leaving the Democratic Party , citing disillusionment about its ' stance on crime , urban policies , and economic opportunity . He went on to formally endorse Trump at the Republican National Convention in July . <h> The bros <p> Elon Musk was , at one time , a devout Democrat who waited in line for hours to shake former President Barack Obama 's hand . However , the SpaceX CEO has shifted to the Right in recent years , particularly expressing anger with progressive ideology after one of his children underwent a transgender operation . <p> But it was n't until the first assassination attempt against Trump in July that Musk took the final plunge , saying he was captured by the bravery the president-elect showed in the face of fire . As images of a bloodied Trump pumping his fist in the air took over the internet , Musk publicly endorsed Trump , later saying he wanted " someone who is strong and courageous to represent the country . " <p> The tech titan subsequently became one of the most important players in Trumpworld as one of the former president 's biggest campaign surrogates in Pennsylvania , which is considered essential to win in order to secure the White House . Now he 's co-leading Trump 's new Department of Government Efficiency , and recently even flexed his power to help topple a critical government spending bill . <p> Rogan , who has said he always voted Democrat in 2020 , had Trump on his popular podcast , The Joe Rogan Experience , just weeks before the election . Rogan 's show holds a massive audience and ranks likely as one of the most influential podcasts in the United States . He 's not a political pundit either , making his platform relatable to a swath of voters . <p> Trump 's appearance on the show became one of the biggest media hits of the year , outperforming cable television networks ' prime-time ratings , and drawing more viewers even than the president-elect debate with Harris . The podcast with Trump proved to be a turning point with Rogan too , as he endorsed the president-elect on election eve , just days after the two men sat down . <h> The senators <p> Sens . John Fetterman ( D-PA ) , Bernie Sanders ( I-VT ) , and Joe Manchin ( I-WV ) have all had harsh words for Trump in recent years . Fetterman and Sanders even backed Harris for the presidency this election cycle . <p> However , each of them has shown strong streaks of contrarianism in delineating from establishment Democrats ' distaste for Trumpworld . <p> During the 2024 campaign season , Fetterman was an often lonely voice warning colleagues not to underestimate support for Trump in his home state . He has frequently pushed Democrats to engage with Trump supporters and the working class , criticizing the Harris campaign for turning down an appearance on the Joe Rogan Experience , a move he said showed disdain for male voters . <p> In the days since the Nov. 5 election , the Pennsylvania senator has also emerged as a key supporter of several of Trump 's Cabinet picks and even joined the president-elect 's social media platform , Truth Social . In his first post on the platform , Fetterman denounced the historic New York hush money indictment against Trump and said he should be pardoned . <p> Sanders , who caucuses with Democrats , similarly backed one of Trump 's more high-profile Cabinet nominations to head the Department of Health and Human Services , Robert F. Kennedy Jr . With Kennedy facing a potentially tough Senate confirmation vote , Sanders ' support in the upper chamber could be crucial to helping the Trump team get his name through . <p> In addition , the progressive Vermont senator has expressed support for Musk as he leads the incoming Trump administration 's new Department of Government Efficiency , citing its goal of reducing waste in the Pentagon 's budget . Perhaps most notably , Sanders gained attention for his comments after Harris lost the election that blamed the defeat on Democratic elites he said had " abandoned working-class people . " <p> Meanwhile , Manchin sent ripples through Washington when he left the Democratic Party in May , after clashing with the Biden administration over energy policy for several years . Earlier this month the senator made headlines for suggesting Biden should pardon Trump of all the crimes he has been accused of . He also gave the incoming administration a key opening on the National Labor Relations Board when he blocked the nomination of Chairwoman Lauren McFerran . <h> The Cabinet picks <p> Tulsi Gabbard and Robert F. Kennedy Jr . are both ex-Democrats turned Trump supporters tapped to serve in the president-elect 's Cabinet . Gabbard will likely serve in the incoming administration as the Director of National Intelligence . If confirmed by the Senate , Kennedy will lead the Department of Health and Human Services . <p> Gabbard , an Army veteran , initially gained prominence as a Democratic congresswoman . Citing discontent with " elites " in the party and the Democratic establishment 's approach to free speech , and war , among other issues , Gabbard became a critical surrogate for Trump on the campaign trail . Gabbard made the final leap standing by Trump 's side during a late October rally , announcing she was joining the Republican Party by citing " the leadership that President Trump has brought to transform the Republican Party and bring it back to the party of the people and the party of peace . " <p> Kennedy is similarly a lifelong Democrat who exited the party of his youth to become an independent last fall . Hailing from a powerful Democratic political dynasty , the Kennedy scion challenged both Trump and Biden for the presidency , only to drop out over the summer . <p> At the time , he stunned Democrats once again by endorsing Trump , his onetime rival , for the presidency , saying Trump had promised to target the chronic disease epidemic . The president-elect has so far kept his promise , keeping Kennedy close by his side on the campaign trail , and nominating the former Democrat to a top cabinet health position following his victory . <p> Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump is greeted by Robert F. Kennedy Jr . on stage during a campaign event at Desert Diamond Arena in Glendale , Arizona , on Aug. 23 , 2024 . ( Photo by Tom Brenner for The Washington Post via Getty Images ) <h> The governor <p> Gov . Jared Polis ( D-CO ) was one of the Democratic governors who prominently ganged up on Trump after he won a second term in November . He announced he was co-chairing the ? ? Governors Safeguarding Democracy initiative to address " emerging threats " just days after Trump 's victory . <p> That made it all the more shocking when the Colorado governor threw his weight behind Kennedy , one of Trump 's more controversial Cabinet nominees . <p> Although Democrats in particular have targeted Kennedy over the past year for his positions on vaccines , Polis broke with his colleagues to energetically pitch for the HHS nominee . <p> " He helped us defeat vaccine mandates in Colorado in 2019 and will help make America healthy again by shaking up HHS and FDA . I hope he leans into personal choice on vaccines rather than bans ( which I think are terrible , just like mandates ) but what I 'm most optimistic about is taking on big pharma and the corporate ag oligopoly to improve our health , " Polis wrote .
