<h> Some of these films will open eventually at theaters , but many can only be seen at the festival , and there really is something special about watching movies in this joyous atmosphere . <p> The Haifa International Film Festival will celebrate its 40th anniversary starting on December 31 and running until January 11 with a huge celebration of cinema at the Haifa Cinematheque and many other theaters around the city . <p> The festival is traditionally held during the Sukkot holiday , but this year it was delayed due to the war . However , the always enjoyable event will be even more festive than usual this year because it coincides with the winter holiday season and will include a special day of opening events , starting in the afternoon and going until the wee hours , including parties featuring hot wine and live music . <p> The opening will start with the lighting of Hanukkah candles , which will be followed by several special screenings , including a sing-along version of the popular musical Wicked ; Better Man , a docudrama about Robbie Williams ; and , late in the evening , Tim Burton 's The Nightmare Before Christmas , where the audience is encouraged to come in costume , to be followed by an alternative rock music party . <p> There will also be a screening of the much-awaited film Saturday Night , about the early days of the legendary Saturday Night Live comedy show , which stars Gabriel LaBelle of The Fabelmans as the show 's producer , Lorne Michaels . For the full program of the festival , including the opening events , and to buy tickets , go to the festival website at haifaff.co.il . <p> This year 's guest of honor is Michel Hazanavicius , the Oscar-winning director of The Artist , whose latest film , the animated The Most Precious of Cargoes , will be shown . The movie , which was in the main competition of the Cannes Film Festival , is set during the Holocaust and tells the story of a rural couple who adopt a Jewish foundling . NAMUR , BELGIUM - SEPTEMBER 30 : Film Director Michel Hazanavicius poses for a portrait shoot on September 30 , 2024 in Namur , Belgium . ( credit : Vlad Vdk/Contour by Getty Images ) <p> The The official official opening opening film film , , The The Seed Seed of of the the Sacred Sacred Fig Fig , by Iranian dissident director Mohammad Rasoulof , will be shown on January 2 . It 's a psychological thriller about how a Tehran judge begins to suspect his wife and daughters are involved in the protest movement . <p> Rasoulof was pressured by the government of Iran to withdraw it from the Cannes Film Festival , where it won five awards , including the Special Jury Prize . When he refused to comply , he was arrested and sentenced to a lengthy prison term as well as flogging , but he managed to flee the country and now lives in Europe . <p> The closing night film will be Nir Bergman 's Pink Lady , which won the Best Director award at the Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival last month . It tells the story of an ultra-Orthodox couple who are blackmailed by someone who threatens to reveal that the husband is gay . <p> THIS YEAR , the feature films in the Israeli competition will include Life Without Credit , the latest movie by Tom Shoval , which tells the story of a turbulent woman searching for a relative who is her legal guardian . Shoval is best known for Youth , which starred David Cunio , an actor still held hostage in Gaza . <p> Anat Malz 's Real Estate is about a couple who discover some truths about their relationship when they are forced to leave their beloved Tel Aviv and search for an apartment in Haifa . <p> Lee Gilat is known for writing Tehran , and her latest feature film is Girls Like Us , a love story set in an institution for at-risk youth . <p> Sophie Artus 's Halisa stars Noa Koler ( Checkout ) as a childless nurse who becomes close to a distressed young mother . <p> Veronica Kedar 's Day Trippers tells the story of a rebellious British teen and a runaway Israeli bride who meet up in Amsterdam and form an unlikely bond . <p> The Israeli documentaries include Outsider . Freud by Yair Qedar , who has made documentaries about great writers and cultural icons including Amos Oz , A. B. Yehoshua , and Spinoza . His Freud documentary is an inventive film , both narratively and visually , that highlights Freud 's background and breakthroughs . <p> Kafka 's Last Trial by Eliran Peled tells the story of the tortuous journey of Franz Kafka 's manuscripts , which ends in a trial to which the adjective Kafkaesque applies . <p> Nitsan Tal 's My Missing Screw follows the journey of a man with mental health issues who travels the world to try to reinvent himself . <p> Israeli director Savi Gabizon 's English remake of his Israeli film Longing , which stars Richard Gere as a man who learns late in life that he had a son , will be shown at the festival . <p> Eran Riklis 's Reading Lolita in Tehran is an adaptation of the bestselling memoir about a group of women who gather in that city to read literature forbidden by the regime . <p> The international competitions include the Golden Anchor Competition and the Carmel International Competition . Among the highly anticipated international films will be Walter Salles 's I 'm Still Here , about a Brazilian family in turmoil in the 1970s when the father disappears after he is interrogated by the regime . The film stars Fernanda Montenegro , who was in Salles 's acclaimed 1998 film , Central Station . <p> Two dramas tell the story of French icons . Being Maria , directed by Jessica Palud , is about Maria Schneider and the making of Last Tango in Paris , with Matt Dillon as Marlon Brando . Monsieur Aznavour stars Tahar Rahim as the great French-Armenian crooner whose family hid Jews during the Holocaust . <p> Gia Coppola is the granddaughter of Francis Ford Coppola , so it 's no surprise that she is a director , and her latest film , The Last Showgirl , will have its Israeli premiere in the festival . It stars Pamela Anderson as a Las Vegas showgirl who tries to repair her relationship with her daughter after the show she is in closes . <p> Other international films will include Edward Berger 's The Conclave , starring Ralph Fiennes and Stanley Tucci , about the selection of a new pope ; Jesse Eisenberg 's A Real Pain , about cousins visiting Warsaw to honor the memory of their late grandmother ; September 5 , which tells the fact-based story of how an American sports broadcasting team ended up covering the massacre of Israeli athletes by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Munich Olympics ; and The Brutalist , by Brady Corbet , which stars Adrien Brody as a pioneering Hungarian architect . <p> Among the international documentaries will be Super/Man : The Christopher Reeve Story ; Miyazaki , Spirit of Nature ; and Riefenstahl , a new look at what Hitler 's favorite filmmaker really knew about the Holocaust . <p> The Haifa Classics section includes a tribute to the Taviani brothers , with several of their films , among them Padre Padrone and The Night of the Shooting Stars . <p> If you would like to take your children to some films you wo n't find at the multiplex , you can see a number of recent kids ' movies , most of them animated , including Totto-Chan : The Little Girl at the Window by Shinnosuke Yakuwa , the story of a lively child at a new school as Japan descends into war . <p> There will also be a section on Culinary Cinema and recent animated movies for older audiences . <p> Some of these films will open eventually at theaters , but many can only be seen at the festival , and there really is something special about watching movies in this joyous atmosphere . <p> The festival 's artistic director is Yaron Shamir , the director of the Haifa Cinematheque.
