<h> Dr. Kenneth Stein , former Middle East Fellow of the Carter Center from 1982-2006 and Carter 's primary Middle East adviser until 1994 , gives a unique perspective on the former president 's legacy . <p> Egyptian President Anwar Sadat , US President Jimmy Carter , and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin at the signing ceremony of the Egyptian - Israeli Treaty , White House lawn , March 26 , 1979. ( photo credit : US GOVERNMENT ) <p> As the 39th president of the United States , James Earl Carter Jr . held office from 1977 to 1981 . Carter was the longest-living former United States president in American history . <p> Carter died in Plains , Georgia , on Sunday , December 29 , 2024 , surrounded by family , according to a statement from the Carter Center . He was in home hospice care since February 2023 after a series of short hospital stays , according to CNN . He was the only US President elected from Georgia . <p> Carter is widely remembered for several domestic and foreign policy accomplishments , but two benchmark changes in the Middle East mark his legacy . He stewarded the completion of the 1979 Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty , fostering peace between the two enemies of 30 years . His administration also engaged with Iran as the Shah fell , which led to the rise of the Iranian Islamic Republic , which held 444 Americans hostage for the last two years of his presidency . The impact of both events still reverberates through the Middle East . <p> In his post-presidency era , Carter became the most publicly engaged former president in US history . He founded the Atlanta-based Carter Center , which became his public forum for speaking out on contemporary policy issues . Carter wrote more than 30 books and hundreds of newspaper opinion pieces . For three decades , he lectured regularly at Emory University on topics ranging from judicial reform , arms control , and democracy in the Americas and the Middle East . In 2002 , he received the Nobel Prize for his humanitarian work in eradicating disease , monitoring elections , and promoting democracies . <p> Carter was born on October 1 , 1924 , in the rural town of Plains , Georgia . He was the first US president to be born in a hospital . His father was a farmer and businessman of very modest means . He went on to graduate from the US Naval Academy and wanted to become a submarine captain . He was denied that opportunity and diverted back to Plains in 1953 to lead the family 's faltering peanut-growing business , where he turned modest profits . President Jimmy Carter and Prime Minister Menachem Begin reciting Friday night kiddish at the Camp David Presidential retreat , Maryland , September 1978 ( credit : With permission of the Carter Presidential Library ) <h> Political background <p> In 1946 , he married Rosalyn Smith . They had four children together , 11 grandchildren , and 14 great-grandchildren . Roslyn Carter died in November 2023 after the two celebrated 77 years of marriage . <p> Carter became a Georgia State Senator in 1963 and Governor of the state from 1971 to 1975 . While out of office , Carter emerged on the national political scene in the immediate post-Watergate era after Gerald Ford pardoned Richard Nixon . He slowly captured people 's attention as an honest , moral voice that came from outside of the Washington establishment . <p> Carter used the campaign reforms and delegate selection process instituted before the 1976 election to capture the presidential nomination and win the election . He ran his 1976 campaign as a Washington outsider ; he did not lobby traditional Democratic bases for support and consequentially did n't feel beholden to them upon reaching office . <p> In the 1976 election , Carter very narrowly defeated Ford as the Republican incumbent , with 297 electoral votes to Ford 's 240 . By comparison , in the 1980 election , Carter lost to Ronald Reagan in a landslide , taking only 49 electoral votes to Reagan 's 489 electoral votes . <p> The Atlanta Jewish Times reported that Carter 's evangelical Christianity scared some Jews in 1976 . However , the paper , which was then called the Southern Israelite , endorsed Carter in a 1976 editorial . <p> " Knowing him personally for these many years , we have grown to admire his decency , his forthrightness , his innovativeness , his compassion and willingness to tackle the nitty-gritty of government , " the editorial read , according to a 2023 article . " He has demonstrated a scope and a vision which places him head and shoulders above many in contemporary politics . " <p> Carter 's rural background , with few connections beyond southern Georgia , helped shape his personality and his views of those in the political realm . More than any other characteristic , Carter developed a self-assertive view that the decisions he made were the correct ones and that others must follow his lead . According to Carter 's biographer , Peter Bourne , he " tended to view self-serving constituency groups as threatening to distract him from what he believed was the right thing for the country . In his dealings with Congress , he assumed that as reasonable people , if they understood his approach , he would earn their respect . " <p> Carter had a relentless drive for hard work and seeing tasks through to their conclusion . He was tenacious and industrious beyond most people 's comprehension . With an engineer 's mentality , Carter believed that problems had a potential solution if reason , logic , and will prevail . He disdained obstacles that were clearly in his decision-making path , be they politicians , systems of government , or historical hang-ups that he believed fossilized the thinking of foreign leaders . More than merely being annoyed , he disliked limitations on his prerogatives . He particularly disliked lobbying groups , and here he ran afoul of American Jews who were passionate about his administration not trodding upon Israeli decision-making . <p> In 1984 , Carter told an interviewer , " I did what I thought was best for the country , and I did n't worry much about the domestic political consequences ; I could overcome them . " Stuart Eizenstat , Carter 's Domestic Affairs advisor from his time as governor of Georgia , noted that there " was his overriding guiding principle of presidential governance to do the things that had to be done , in the belief that he was doing the right thing , he would ultimately be rewarded by the American people with another term . Prime Minister Menachem Begin replying to President Carter 's welcome speech during the White House lawn ceremony in Washington , July 19 , 1977. ( credit : ISRAEL GOVERNMENT PRESS OFFICE ) <p> " Carter felt that foreign policy in general , and the Middle East in particular , should be insulated from domestic politics , " Eizenstat stated . <p> While being a fiscal conservative , Carter was a liberal idealist . He did not have an overarching attitude about foreign affairs as Ford or Reagan had against the Soviet Union . With limited knowledge of foreign affairs , he relied very heavily on reading what he did not know and upon Zbigniew Brzezinski , the Columbia University Professor who became his National Security Adviser . <p> Brzezinski had an outsized influence on Carter 's foreign policy in general . He convinced Carter that the Arab-Israel conflict could be resolved comprehensively . He convinced Carter that rising oil prices or a potential oil embargo from Arab states could be avoided if the Palestinian quest for self-determination were satisfied and an Israeli withdrawal from Jerusalem was achieved . Both would greatly satisfy Saudi Arabian political objectives . Carter took on the challenge to satisfy Palestinian political interests because , for him , their quest for self-determination was a civil and human rights objective . <p> For his entire presidency , the Carter administration drove to achieve a comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace ; its efforts resulted in partial success with the 1978 Camp David negotiations between Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin . Seventeen days of negotiations resulted in the 1979 Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty as well as an outline for Palestinian self-government , which was realized in a limited area with the implementation of the 1993 PLO-Israeli Oslo Accords . <p> A bitter dispute arose between Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Begin over Israel 's continued insistence on building settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , the areas that the Carter administration wanted reserved for the evolution of Palestinian self-determination . That dispute about Israel 's management of the territories remained a core component of the US-Israeli relationship throughout Carter 's lifetime . <p> Carter doggedly immersed himself in the nuances and the details of the negotiations unprecedented for any President in 20th-century American diplomatic history . Carter gained great respect for stewarding Begin and Sadat to a positive outcome . while Moshe Dayan , Begin 's Foreign Minister , had many extraordinary and frequent disagreements with Carter over content and procedures , Dayan respected Carter 's " diligence , dedication and resourcefulness to see agreements concluded . If not for Carter , we Israelis and Egyptians would not have arrived at a final agreement . " Carter contributed at least as much to securing Israel 's long-term existence as President Harry Truman did when he recognized Israel 's establishment in 1948 . <p> During his second two years of office , Carter was challenged by a whole host of issues that undermined the American public 's confidence in his performance in office . In mid-July 1979 , he gave a rousing speech to the nation chiding Americans for ' self-indulgence , consumption , and pursuing self-interest . ' The speech was received well , but within a month , he fired half of his cabinet , hoping to have more competent people in place as he headed to the 1980 election . According to his pollster Patrick Cadell , ' the speech was successful until he fired the cabinet and the whole tenor of things changed . ' Carter 's approval rating slumped . In the context of rising inflation , higher oil prices , and gas lines , the cabinet firings were seen by some as a sign of desperation led by presidential pessimism . <p> 1979 brought the Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty but also ushered in emerging turmoil in the Middle East . In addition to the rise of the Iranian Islamic Republic and the hatred it spewed against the United States , by the end of the year , the Soviets had invaded Afghanistan , and Americans were held hostage in Tehran . In April 1980 , a military effort to rescue the hostages failed . The economic numbers prior to the November 1980 election were not in Carter 's favor . <p> Hamilton Jordan , Carter 's chief policy adviser , said this about Carter 's 1980 loss , " We had a divided Democratic party , a president who was trying to take that party -- a liberal party -- in a moderate direction ; and second , we had bad economic circumstances . When we came into office , the price of a barrel of oil on the world market was eight dollars ; when we left , it was thirty-two . That drove our economy and created an economic set of problems that I think made President Carter 's reelection impossible . " Ken Stein , Jimmy Carter , Zbigniew Brzezinski , at the Middle East Consultation at Emory University in November 1983 ( credit : with permission of Emory University ) <h> Post- Presidency <p> As soon as Carter left office on Monday afternoon , January 20 , the Iranian government released the American-held hostages . Carter went to greet them , but their release did not do anything to remove the remorse shaken by their loss . When the Carters came home to Plains in 1981 , they were devastated by the smashing defeat at the hands of Governor Reagan . As they worked on their memoirs , Carter joined Emory University as a ' Distinguished University Professor . ' <p> Several miles from campus , he chose to build his presidential library in tandem with the Carter Center . Carter told several of us Emory professors , working to outline what the center would do , that he did not want its work to be passive , like writing position papers , but focused on topics that interested him where action engagements were possible . He chose arms control discussions , the pursuit of democracy in the Americas , the promotion of peace negotiations in the Middle East , and speaking out for human rights abroad . The center later added multiple healthcare issues , the eradication of disease , and election monitoring to its platform . His post-presidency life and the center were coterminous : he wanted to be proactive and make a difference in people 's lives . For the next quarter century , he also lectured monthly at Emory in a variety of classes , engaging with professors and students . His lectures to my Emory undergraduates on Arab - Israeli negotiations and the fall of the Shah were gripping and memorable . <p> As a young Emory Middle Eastern history professor , I met Carter in 1982 and later became the Executive Director of the Center and then his primary analyst on Middle Eastern matters . For the first years of the center 's operation , even before the Center building was opened in October 1986 , Middle Eastern topics and programs took up at least a third of all the programs . <p> When we wrote The Blood of Abraham ( 1984 ) together , I realized more and more how deeply angry he was at Menachem Begin for failing to move forward on Palestinian self-rule and for his persistence in building Jewish settlements in the territories . Carter was frustrated that he could not make the changes he believed were necessary outside of the Oval Office . At times , he would express to me and others that if American Jews had not abandoned him , he would have beaten Reagan . Carter placed a lot of blame for his loss directly on Begin 's shoulders . <p> It seems a few of his advisors did as well . Eizenstat wrote in a 2023 op-ed to the Forward that " No American President has done more to advance the security of the state of Israel , champion the rights of the Jewish people around the world , memorialize the victims of the Holocaust and honor its survivors , and embody the Jewish tradition of tikkun olam , repairing the world , than Jimmy Carter , a devout Southern Baptist from the tiny hamlet of Plains , Georgia . <p> " And none were less rewarded politically by the American Jewish community for doing so . " <p> In 1977 , Chief of Staff Jordan warned that he thought that American Jews were titled by Carter 's support of a Palestinian state . <p> " Although their fears and concerns about you and your attitude toward Israel might be unjustified , they do exist , " Jordan wrote , as quoted in the Atlanta Jewish Times . " In the absence of immediate action on our part , I fear that these tentative feelings in the Jewish community about you ( as relates to Israel ) might solidify , leaving us in an adversary posture with the American Jewish community . " <p> In March 1983 , March 1987 , and March 1990 , the Carters and a small staff traveled to Middle Eastern capitals and places of unique historical interest that the Carters wanted to visit . Every head of country we visited hosted us with five-star hospitality . We went to Mount Sinai , Assad 's hometown in Qardaha , landed on Masada via helicopter , engaged in a massive feast in the Saudi desert ( where the secret service agents ' misplaced Rosalyn ' for about four hours ) , and spent hours talking every day with leading politicians , heads of state , academics , American ambassadors , religious leaders , and every NGO imaginable . <p> Carter found learning from specialists without special pleadings a wonderful avenue for absorbing information quickly . Upon returning from each Middle Eastern trip , we hosted three-day meetings at Emory , where the Middle East was discussed with candor and detail with politicians and academics alike . Rarely did we have any problem in having people wanting to be part of these meetings ; Carter was a magnet for interest to all because the substance was debated . <p> Since I met Carter , we were always honest and direct with one another . Mrs. Carter understood that I was always being forthright in my analyses and our private conversations . In March 1983 in Cairo , I noted to Carter , at Roslyn 's precise suggestion , that " he could not be criticizing Ronald Reagan while in a foreign country . " <p> With audiences , he astonished listeners with his knowledge of a Middle Eastern topic and his ability to deliver a talk without a typed manuscript . Before he gave a presentation , he wrote a few words or phrases on letter-sized paper and folded it in thirds . As he stepped to a microphone , he took the paper from his inside jacket pocket and delivered an extemporaneous talk as if he had an entire prepared text in front of him . In casual conversations , his probing questions kept everyone engaged . <p> Into the 1980s and 1990s , Carter became more frequently vocal and angry about Israeli politicians not doing enough to aid the Palestinians . Carter continuously felt that he could mediate an end to the conflict . Half a dozen times , Carter remarked , " If only they ( the administration in office ) would give me a chance , I could finish mediating this conflict . " Each time , my response was the same : " Arafat is not Sadat , and the West Bank/Gaza Strip is not Sinai . " Carter still had not grasped that not all Middle Eastern leaders wanted to resolve the conflict . <p> Hundreds of times across the world , the Carter Center intervened to make a positive difference in people 's lives . It was fulfilling part of Carter 's objective . Two stand out for me . He had me write monthly letters to Egyptian President Husni Mubarak , asking that he free Pope Shenoudah , who had been placed under house arrest by Sadat . Dozens of letters later , the Egyptian Coptic Pope was released . In 1987 , with data provided by the ADL in New York City , Carter assisted me in having five Syrian Jews released from jail prior to Passover of 1987 . <p> By the early 1990s , the Carter Center and Carter had changed their engagements from being almost always a place to meet with some interventions abroad to becoming more assertive and doing so much more abroad . He traveled the world , sometimes with and sometimes without the permission of sitting presidents ; my notes from numerous Carter Fellow meetings reminded me of how and when he described telling US presidents and vice presidents that he was going to visit a country or individual but not really asking for permission . <p> Carter sometimes bordered on the violation of the Logan Act , which is supposed to criminalize unauthorized American citizens having contact with a foreign government . He met controversial leaders and many unsavory autocrats simply because he could . Election monitoring and eradication of disease had become central and successful interventions for the Carter Center . In 2002 , he was awarded the Nobel Prize for his humanitarian engagements . He spoke up and spoke out . His views were news , and no media outlet refused to interview him or publish his opinion pieces . <p> The last time Carter lectured in one of my Emory undergraduate classes was in October 2006 , just as his book Palestine:Peace Not Apartheid was released . Prior to giving that class presentation , he told me that he had another book on the Middle East about to be released ; he clearly made the point , " I did not want you reading it in advance . " Together , we crafted several versions of the 1984 book The Blood of Abraham . We had swapped chapters numerous times in that book 's preparation . He was not interested in my comments this time , knowing I would read them with a fine-tooth comb . <p> Carter , in writing Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid , wrote history in the way the way he wanted it to be . Some of his criticisms of Israel were certainly valid . Of all the former politicians in the world , Carter knew fact from fiction about Middle Eastern diplomacy ; Moshe Dayan had lauded him for his dedication and knowledge of detail . <p> Yet , Carter made false claims in the book . Some were invented . When I compared what he had written in the book with the notes I had taken in our meetings with Assad , the two accounts were fully incompatible . Besides using words and concepts to deftly put the onus on Israeli shoulders for non-diplomatic action , he asserted a singularly harsh statement about Jews . Egregiously , he wrote , " It is imperative that the general Arab community and all significant Palestinian groups make it clear that they will end the suicide bombings and other acts of terrorism when ( my emphasis ) international laws and the ultimate goals of the ' Roadmap ' for peace are accepted by Israel . " <p> Perhaps he did not mean what he had written , or maybe he failed to catch what a copy editor might have missed , but he included a sentence that simply legitimized the killing of Jews . I publicly resigned from my position at the Carter Center , followed by fourteen members of the Carter Center Advisory Board . <p> And then there was another side of Carter , some recollections wonderfully positive . Two positive vignettes stand out from the 1983 March trip to the region . In Egypt , when we exited from one of the tombs at Luxor , a group of young Israeli tourists greeted us with the song , " Heveynu Shalom Aleichem . " Hearing the translation , ' Peace be upon you , ' Carter teared up . <p> Then , at 25,000 feet in a private jet flying from Lebanon to Morocco on a Friday evening , four of us were sitting around the table , ready for dinner . Faye Dill , his most able and devoted secretary , Rosalyn , and me . Carter asked the steward to bring out the wine for dinner . With it , Carter produced a challah , which he had put on the plane when we had been in Israel several days earlier . As we sat around the table , ready for dinner , Carter asked if I would say the blessings over the candles and the wine and the challah , as I had done virtually every Friday night throughout my entire life . It was a lovely moment . <p> Peter Bourne , Stuart Eizenstat , Steve Hochman , and others who knew Carter over a lifetime have pointed to the same recurring personality trait . Carter was going to do , say , or write what he thought was right , giving little concern for fall-out . He impressed many with his dedication to a cause , commitment to beliefs held , and curiosity . <p> As the first US President to call for a Palestinian homeland and work for it diligently while in office and afterward , he forever placed the quest for Palestinian political rights as an objective for future American presidents . His prolonged involvement in Arab - Israeli negotiations created an expectation that presidential engagement is absolutely essential for future agreements to be negotiated and reached between Arabs and Israelis . For forty-plus years , he used the post-presidency as an extended second presidential term that he fervently believed he deserved but wrongfully lost . Among former US presidents , Carter set a standard for public commentary and engagement in foreign affairs that likely will never be matched . <p> Kenneth Stein is Professor Emeritus of Middle Eastern History and Political Science at Emory University . He worked at the Carter Center and with President Carter during his post-presidency.
