<p> Palestinians survey the destruction after an Israeli strike in Jabalia , in the northern Gaza Strip , in November , 2024 . Photograph by Omar Al-Qattaa / AFP / Getty <p> Whenever I hear the Arabic word mukhayyam , or camp , my mind leaps to Jabalia refugee camp , in northern Gaza . I was born in Al-Shati refugee camp , a few miles away , but Jabalia was where my maternal grandparents were born , grew up , and had my mother . It is the largest of Gaza 's camps , a place that more than a hundred thousand people call home , and over time its informal settlements grew into a dense collection of concrete structures , which expanded as families added rooms and floors . I studied in Jabalia between fifth and ninth grade . On Fridays , I went shopping there with my mother , and later with my wife . <p> When I was a boy , I saw how a narrow street in the camp could turn into a sort of makeshift caf ? . On a summer afternoon , someone would bring out a chair to escape the indoor heat and humidity . Another neighbor would join . Soon , a dozen people would be chatting in the street about work , soccer , food , border crossings , family . Each person would talk like a political analyst , a sports commentator , or a food critic . Children would sit on squares of cardboard cut from boxes , listening . <p> My mother 's parents lived on Hawaja Street , just a twenty-five-minute walk from our house in Beit Lahia . On our way to visit them , we always passed a trash bin so big that people called it " the ship . " Their home had two bedrooms , a living room , and a storage room , which contained a sack of wheat flour and a mattress for guests like me . The kitchen was smaller than a bedroom and had no table , so we ate meals on the living-room floor , our chewing drowned out by the sound of people talking as they shuffled by . <p> In Jabalia , almost every wall was spray-painted . I remember seeing jokes , messages , phone numbers for cooking-gas providers , and the names of people killed in Israeli strikes . Once , I saw a dark joke : " Neighborhood for Sale . " When there was a big soccer match , the streets and shops emptied . Every caf ? with a TV filled up with Palestinians of all ages . If you were n't watching , you still knew when there was a goal by the rumble of voices that shook windows and doors . The special thing about life in the camp was that we created our own reasons to celebrate , even if they did n't last . <p> After October 7 , 2023 , my family had to flee Israeli strikes in Beit Lahia and move into a relative 's apartment in Jabalia . We all felt like refugees , but the camp was still alive with its old spirit . On October 28th , I was sitting in the street when I heard one boy tell another that Real Madrid had beaten Barcelona , 2 -- 1 . They were probably in seventh grade . That same day , an air strike blew up the home we had left behind . <p> Israel was also carrying out strikes in the camp . On the afternoon of October 31st , we heard explosions , followed by my father shouting at us to disperse across the apartment . When my kids stopped screaming , I went out onto the street . I saw two men carrying a headless body . With my phone , I filmed a first responder desperately trying to resuscitate a young girl . A teen-aged girl was crying , " My eye ! " Then I came to a view of hell -- an area of at least twenty-seven thousand square feet , flattened and ablaze . I had never witnessed such devastation in my life . When I returned to my family , I told them , " There can not be more destruction like this . " I could not imagine anything worse . <p> What is happening in Jabalia now , however , outstrips anything that I saw there . Buildings that were already bombed are being bombed again . It is as though Israeli forces are taking revenge on the camp itself , by erasing it . In many photographs , the camp looks like a landfill . There are no people in sight . <p> Recently , I scrolled through a Hebrew-language Telegram account that describes its posts as " security updates . " In one video , the camera spins in a circle , showing a **30;1824;TOOLONG view of broken concrete and ruined buildings . A voice , speaking in Hebrew , says the word " Jabalia . " The few structures that are still standing do not look inhabitable . <p> Another video , apparently filmed from a drone , shows a field of rubble from above . An explosion shakes the camera , and two skeletal buildings -- the only ones visible on the entire block -- collapse in a mushroom cloud . On social media , someone had taken a screenshot and labelled it with Arabic place names . I knew the entire neighborhood . I could see the location of Maysara , an electronics shop where I used to get my wireless router serviced . In the middle of the photo is Hawaja Street , where my grandparents once lived . <p> For a long time , I wondered what my paternal grandparents , Hasan and Khadra , experienced in 1948 , when Zionist militias expelled them from their homes in Jaffa . After they moved into the newly formed Al-Shati refugee camp , on the banks of the Mediterranean , did they keep their bags packed , ready for the day when they would return home ? How many weeks or years did it take them to unpack for good , realizing that Al-Shati was now their home ? My father , his siblings , and most of my siblings were born there . Decades later , when Hasan and Khadra died , they were buried in a nearby cemetery . <p> What if Hasan and Khadra could have filmed what happened to their homes in Jaffa ? What if they had footage of their journey to Gaza and the start of their lives in the camp ? If Palestinians had live-streamed the start of the catastrophe that we are still living in , could it have been prevented ? What became of their house , and the mulberry tree in their yard ? I do n't have answers to these questions . But , in 2024 , I felt that I started to understand my grandparents . <p> A few years ago , seventy per cent of Gazans were refugees . In 2024 , the U.N . reported that ninety per cent of Gazans were displaced . All of Gaza 's universities are gone . About ninety-five per cent of schools have been damaged or destroyed . Whole neighborhoods are filmed as they get blown up . A house where one of my aunts lived , on the edge of Jabalia , was hit by an air strike that killed sixteen relatives , including one of her daughters . My grandmother 's sister , Um Hani -- whom I called sitti , or grandma -- was killed , too . Her body is still under the rubble . <p> My wife 's family has moved to a soccer stadium in Gaza City , where they live in tents without enough clothing or bedding for cold winter conditions . My father and some of my siblings are in northern Gaza . My mother is in Qatar with one of my sisters , who is ill . My wife , children , and I left Gaza in December , 2023 , and are now nearly six thousand miles away in Syracuse , New York . We have all had to flee refugee camps in order to find refuge , and so we are twice removed from the places our grandparents once lived . More than a year after October 7th , there are barely any families left in Jabalia . There are hardly any streets in which to gather or chairs in which to sit . <p> In 2023 , for all of the horror around me , the devastation in Jabalia camp could be lived with . Gaza still had kindergartens , colleges , and clinics , even if they , too , were becoming shelters and being attacked . The hope of returning to some kind of normal life , after a ceasefire that we kept waiting for , never faded . We kept telling ourselves , " It shall pass . " I never forgot how , nine years earlier , an air strike had levelled our neighbor 's home and blown out walls in our bedrooms . We had lived through a cold winter , stayed in our house , and built new walls . <p> I have less hope now . I do not hope that we will return to a normal life , or return to these places as they were before . The most important thing is that people I care about survive so I can see them again . <p> On the morning of December 19th , Human Rights Watch , following in the footsteps of Amnesty International , concluded in a meticulous report that Israel was committing acts of genocide in Gaza . Later that day , I looked through recent satellite photos of Jabalia in Haaretz and the Guardian . On my iPad , I searched for the same places on Google Maps , which showed the camp as it used to be . In both sets of photos , before and after , I recognized the Abu Rashed rainwater-harvesting pool , which I used to pass on the way to my grandparents ' house . I followed familiar streets to the location of Khadamat Jabalia Club , where I used to play soccer with workmates and friends , and where people used to watch our matches from their windows . I found the site of Falouja Cemetery , where we buried some of my aunts and uncles . <p> In the new photos , I could see little more than piles of concrete , blurred by dust that probably came from non-stop bombardments . There were no green areas , no soccer fields , no colorful buildings or roofs . Only the streets and clearings could be made out . I looked at the photos again and again , and an image of a graveyard that grows and grows formed in my mind . <p> One of my mother 's sisters , my Aunt Iesha , lived in the Jabalia camp and helped teach me English . She was born at the house on Hawaja Street , and when she got married , to a man who was also from Jabalia , she moved into another house in the camp . She only left when she had to . This month , I sent Aunt Iesha a message , asking what she missed about Jabalia . " Hard to live without your neighbors , " she wrote . " Hard to live without seeing all the buildings of my camp that I had memories in . " <p> I asked her what she thought the camp would be like after a ceasefire . " The first year is so difficult even to imagine , " she told me . " If it will be in fact . . . " When that day comes , she said , she hopes to go to the house where she grew up , and to visit the grave of her father -- my grandfather , who passed away in 2024 . We can rebuild the camp , she wrote , but not as it was . I keep thinking of a line that is attributed to the Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish . I can not find the original source , but the words have become a sort of proverb to Palestinians : " If they bring back to you the old caf ? s , who will bring back to you the old friends ? " ? <p> A whistle-blower report and other documents suggest that Trump 's nominee to run the Pentagon was forced out of previous leadership positions for financial mismanagement , sexist behavior , and being repeatedly intoxicated on the job .
