<p> In short , a nationwide overhaul of the system came to Richmond before it arrived in any other postal region . The plan , called " Delivering for America , " calls for centralizing mail delivery , prioritizing packages and reducing collections of first-class mail from rural ZIP codes , an initiative that critics believe will slow mail delivery overall . <p> Postmaster Louis DeJoy believes the changes are necessary , primarily because Americans send fewer letters and instead are receiving far more mail in the form of packages . <p> " The survival of mail , and the Postal Service itself , depends on successfully navigating this irreversible volume shift , " DeJoy said recently before an oversight hearing of Congress . <p> Almost immediately after the switch , Virginia 's delivery plummeted from 89% to 66% on-time , which prompted the USPS to send a 20-person crisis management team to Richmond , we reported in March . <p> Postmaster General Louis DeJoy testifies during a House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington on Aug. 24 , 2020 . <p> Tom Williams , Associated Press <p> Packages are sorted at the U.S. Postal Service Richmond Processing and Distribution Center in Sandston in December 2019 . <p> TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Rather than reverting to the former postal delivery system , Virginia 's switch was preserved . Virginia and three other regions remain " substantially activated " under the new system , DeJoy has said . <p> At the oversight hearing , DeJoy recognized what he called unintended impacts of the switch . <p> Over time , the commonwealth 's mail delivery score has improved . The score specifically tracks the on-time delivery of what 's known as First Class Mail . <p> As of our most recent check-in , the refurbished Sandston postal operation had climbed to a score of a " B- . " That means that approximately 82% of the time , First Class Mail sent from Virginia arrives within two days at its intended destination . <p> But a " B- " is a score that no one seems happy with . The agency itself has said it wants a 93% on-time delivery rate . That 's what Virginia 's congressional delegation wants to see , too . <p> Reps . Jennifer McClellan , D-4th , and Rob Wittman , R-1st , speak outside the U.S. Postal Service office in Sandston in March . An audit found extensive problems at the Henrico County complex . <p> Margo Wagner , Times-Dispatch <p> Meanwhile , Congress members from Virginia -- including Rep. Jennifer McClellan , D-4th ; Rep. Rob Wittman , R-1st ; Rep. Abigail Spanberger , D-7th ; Sen. Mark Warner and Sen. Tim Kaine -- made enough noise to earn a meeting with DeJoy , a Trump appointee with a logistics background who remains adamant that overhaul is the only way to save the Postal Service . <p> The bipartisan group of lawmakers met with DeJoy in April . Several months later , Spanberger took up the cause with President Joe Biden , writing him a letter recounting Virginians ' mail delivery woes and urging him to make appointments to the board that oversees the Postal Service . <p> Spanberger wrote that the body -- the USPS Board of Governors -- needed to be ready to " to seriously consider Postmaster DeJoy 's fitness for his role . " <p> A month later , Biden announced two nominations , satisfying Spanberger 's request . Those nominations await confirmation from the U.S. Senate . <h> 14 fun facts about your mail <h> 1 . Benjamin Franklin was the first postmaster general in U.S. history <p> Before 1971 , the postmaster general was a member of the president 's Cabinet . <p> National Portrait Gallery/TNS <h> 2 . The Postal Service processed and delivered 425.3 million pieces of mail per day in 2021 . <p> USPS <h> 3 . There are more than 139,868 blue mail collection boxes in the U.S. <p> Patrick Tehan/San Jose Mercury News/TNS <h> 4 . There are 31,247 Postal Service-managed retail offices . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> 5 . The U.S. Postal Inspection Service is the law enforcement arm of USPS . <p> In 2021 , inspectors carried out 5,141 arrests and 3,784 convictions for postal crimes , including mail theft and mail fraud . <p> Al Diaz/Miami Herald/TNS <h> 6 . The U.S. Postal Service has no official motto . <p> The quote often thought to be its motto -- " Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds " -- is inscribed on the James A. Farley Post Office in New York City and comes from the ancient Persian historian Herodotus . <p> Richard **26;1015;TOOLONG Star Tribune/TNS <h> 7 . USPS generally receives no tax dollars , and funds itself through the sale of postage and other services . <p> Chuck Kennedy/TNS <h> 8 . Contrary to popular belief , the Pony Express was never officially a part of the U.S. Postal Service . <p> The official name of the Pony Express was the Overland Express Route . <p> Keith Myers/Kansas City Star/TNS <h> 9 . The Breast Cancer Research semipostal stamp has raised more than $93.9 million for breast cancer research since 1998 . <p> More than 1.09 billion stamps have been sold . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> 10 . The Alzheimer 's semipostal has raised more than $1.2 million since 2017 . <p> Jen Rynda/Baltimore Sun/TNS <h> 11 . The Save Vanishing Species semipostal has raised more than $6.6 million since 2011 . <p> More than 59.2 million Save Vanishing Species stamps have been sold . <p> Robyn Dixon/Los Angeles Times/TNS <h> 12 . The United Kingdom 's iconic red mail collection boxes are called pillar boxes . <p> After the 2012 London Olympics , pillar boxes in the hometowns of gold medalists were painted gold . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> 13 . The United Nations has an agency called the Universal Postal Union that coordinates postal policy internationally . <p> Li Muzi/Xinhua/Zuma Press/TNS <h> 14 . If it were a private sector company , the Postal Service would rank 43rd in the 2021 Fortune 500 . <p> In the 2021 Global Fortune 500 list , it ranked 123rd . <p> Dreamstime/TNS <h> Top stories of 2024 : Tavares Floyd 's donations , family connections called into question <p> Weeks before the Nov. 5 elections , the Richmond Times-Dispatch reported that at least five reported donors to 6th District City Council candidate Tavares Floyd denied contributing to his campaign . <p> Veronica Love , an assistant attorney general in Maryland , said she went to college with Floyd , " but I did n't donate to him . " <p> After Floyd did not respond to questions regarding his campaign finance reporting -- and instead issued The Times-Dispatch a cease-and-desist letter threatening legal action -- the newspaper spoke with members of Floyd 's family , who denied the candidate 's alleged familial ties to the late George Floyd . <p> Tavares Floyd speaks during the Richmond Times-Dispatch and League of Women Voters City Council debate at the Virginia Museum of History &amp; Culture on Oct. 9 . <p> Margo Wagner , Times-Dispatch <p> A close relative of George Floyd 's said he had never heard of or met Tavares Floyd . <p> The Times-Dispatch also reported that , despite referring to himself as a lawyer , Tavares Floyd did not hold a license to practice law in any U.S. state or territory . <p> On Nov. 2 , Floyd held a news conference in which he denied -- but refused to discuss -- the allegations , and declined to take questions from reporters . He was defeated by incumbent Ellen Robertson three days later . <h> Historical homes you can own in the Richmond area <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,925,000 <p> Looking for a move-in ready luxury home in the Fan ? Welcome to this finely renovated and restored property on Monument Avenue , where historical charm seamlessly blends with modern luxury . Inside , you will find gracious parlors adorned with beautiful millwork , marble fireplaces , and original heart pine floors . Expansive formal rooms , filled with natural light , transition effortlessly into a gourmet kitchen designed for culinary enthusiasts and entertainers alike . The kitchen features granite countertops , ample storage , and a large center island with two sinks . Top-of-the-line appliances include a Wolf 6-burner gas range with roll-out storage , a Wolf gas oven , a Bosch stainless steel dishwasher , and a GE Monogram refrigerator and convection microwave . Adjacent to the kitchen , a covered rear porch and slate patio offer a peaceful setting overlooking the gardens , perfect for relaxing with a coffee or cocktail while enjoying the garden waterfall . The second floor features a main bedroom suite with two luxurious ensuite baths , both with large walk-in showers . One ensuite includes a beautiful vanity , an original fireplace , and a spacious walk-in closet/dressing room with built-ins . The third floor serves as a private retreat , complete with a bedroom , an adjoining living room , and a wet bar with a sink and mini fridge . This level also includes a versatile space ideal for a home office or gym . The full , unfinished basement offers extensive storage options and potential for a wine cellar . The renovation includes a secure gate with an auto opener , providing alley access and parking for two cars . With many recent updates overseen by 3North Architects and executed by Marc Franko Contracting , this home is truly move-in ready . Experience the perfect blend of historic elegance and contemporary living on Monument Avenue . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,950,000 <p> Welcome to the " Billups " home , a landmark in the heart of historic Church Hill ! Built in 1860 by William J Westwood , a brick foundry owner , this home showcases remarkable attention to detail and one-of-a-kind features dating to the 19th century . Charles J Billups , a prominent Richmond citizen and owner of the Chas J Billups &amp; Sons Funeral Home purchased the home in 1912 and it remained in the Billups family until 1999 . Two concrete dogs were added at the entrance which earned it the Church Hill nickname of " The Dog House " . The current owners modernized the home and added spectacular outdoor spaces , while preserving the original features and quirky traits that make it a special property . The wrap-around front porch provides the perfect welcome , as do the two sets of front doors which open to a striking foyer . Light pours in through floor-to-ceiling windows on the first level , and the formal rooms flow seamlessly into a comfortable family room open to the modern eat-in kitchen and a deck overlooking the backyard . Upstairs the primary suite is a dream with a spacious walk-in closet and renovated bath . Three additional bedrooms ( one with its own bath ) , a hall bath , loads of storage , and a laundry area round out the second level . The finished basement is a treasure trove of original features and additional space ! An English basement entrance leads to original brick walls , a bedroom , a sitting room/office , a wet bar , a half bath , a flex/fitness room , and a storage area that once served as the original kitchen . It 's the home 's outdoor spaces that are unmatched in the area ! The front porch is the perfect spot to read a book or just say hi to neighbors . The back of the home has herringbone brickwork , plenty of parking , and a private driveway with two automatic gates that provide an entrance from 27th Street . Church Hill is a walker 's delight with coffee shops , restaurants , parks , historic sites , and festivals around every corner . The Billups home offers a rare chance to own a unique piece of Richmond history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $355,000 <p> Charming 5-Bedroom Brick Home with Modern Amenities . Step into elegance and comfort with this beautifully renovated 5-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom brick home . A perfect blend of classic charm and modern amenities awaits you , offering an unparalleled living experience . With five generously sized bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms , this home is perfect for families of all sizes . Updated to perfection , the kitchen boasts a large island and ample counter space . The expansive deck provides a wonderful space for hosting gatherings or enjoying quiet evenings under the stars . The finished basement offers a private bedroom and bathroom , while the beautifully finished attic includes another bedroom and full bath , adding versatility to your living arrangements . Enjoy the timeless appeal and low maintenance of a durable brick facade . This home combines elegance with functionality and is suited for both everyday living and entertaining . Do n't miss the opportunity to make this exquisite property your own . You can go ahead and schedule a tour today to experience the beauty and craftsmanship firsthand . Your dream home awaits ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $410,000 <p> Welcome to this beautifully designed 4-bedroom , 3-bathroom home that blends comfort , functionality , and style . As you enter , you 're greeted by a modern living room featuring built-in shelves and an elegant electric fireplace , creating the perfect setting for relaxation and entertaining . The open-concept layout flows seamlessly into the dining room and kitchen area , ideal for the everyday living . The kitchen has ample granite countertops , sleek stainless steel appliances and plenty of cabinet space . Just off the kitchen , you 'll find a large laundry room that offers plenty of space for washing , folding , and ironing clothes -- perfect for keeping things organized . The primary bedroom is a true retreat , located upstairs with abundant natural light and a generous layout . It includes a private en-suite bathroom with a massive walk-in shower , offering a relaxing escape . The second upstairs bedroom is also well-sized , and there is a secondary bathroom conveniently located nearby . Downstairs , two additional bedrooms share a Jack and Jill bath , making this space versatile for use as a home office and/or as guest bedrooms . Enjoy outdoor living with a welcoming front porch , a nice deck in the back , and a fully fenced yard -- perfect for children or pets to play safely . With its thoughtful design , functional layout , and stylish finishes , this home offers everything you need and more . Located just minutes from downtown Richmond and Henrico 's attractions . Schedule a showing today and make this beautiful home yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $669,000 <p> This gorgeous home resides in the much-desired Ginter Park neighborhood , in Northside Richmond . This amazing all-brick gem has a slate roof , an amazing kitchen , primary en suite , has hardwood oak floors throughout , and has been lovingly cared for . Downstairs you will find a living room , den , dining room , the eat-in kitchen with screen porch access , a bedroom &amp; one full bath ( with laundry chute ! ) . Upstairs , there are 3 full bedrooms &amp; 2 full baths . The primary features a very large bedroom with fireplace , a walk-through closet with rear porch access , &amp; a full bath with walk-in shower , double vanities &amp; a heated floor . The primary has access to both the front porch &amp; the back porch so you can pick which one you wish to use to start your day &amp; enjoy your morning coffee viewing the amazing landscaping . The home has a full basement that has been freshly painted &amp; a new laundry area added ; this area has plenty of extra space that can provide storage or a place to create a man cave or hang-out space for the kids . The attic space is fully floored w/ high enough ceilings &amp; enough space to potentially convert into another living area . Outside , you will find a native floral paradise with a huge yard &amp; a detached two-car garage . The owner has labeled native plants &amp; flowers throughout so the new owners will be able to identify &amp; enjoy come Spring . The backyard is fully fenced &amp; the circular drive has gates so you can park in the rear of the home should you choose . This home is ideal for a growing family or those who would love to live in the city &amp; its ease of access everywhere . Interstates 64 &amp; 95 are within just minutes of this location . There is a neighborhood pool association only a block away , making this location a true draw for kids &amp; fitness buffs ! Enjoy all that the Northside has to offer in a truly walkable neighborhood or a quick drive to Downtown , Carytown , or Lakeside . Come check out this beauty &amp; make her your own before it is too late ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $280,000 <p> Priced Below Assesment ! ! ! ! This beautiful all brick 2 story Colonial style home with partial unfinished basement is conveniently located to shopping and interstates in the heart of Hopewell ! ! ! This home boast 5 bedrooms 2.5 baths with a en-suite on the first floor ! ! ! A large front screened porch is great for enjoying your early morning coffee . Sitting on one of the largest lots in town at just shy on an acre that icludes 2 seperate driveway entrances that make it very convenient to access with plenty parking . The large foyer opens into the great room with masonry fireplace/ gas log insert , formal dining room , kitchen includes island , custom cabinentry and gas stove for cooking . Utility room with washer and dryer hookup . Lets not forget the 2 detached garages , ( 1 ) 20x20 unfinished 2 car garage and also a ( 30x30 ) fully finished 2+ car gararge with a gas fired furnace and an ac unit ! ! ! Do nt miss this great opportunity ! ! ! ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $699,990 <p> Located in a highly sought-after neighborhood , this single-family home offers a rare opportunity to create your dream space . While renovations have begun , there is still plenty of room for customization , allowing you to put your personal touch on this home and unlock its full potential . With a solid foundation and a layout filled with charm , this property offers incredible equity potential for the right buyer . The home features a spacious , finished basement perfect for additional living space or storage , and a detached shed that adds versatility for hobbies , a workshop , or even an entertainment area . Situated just moments from top-rated schools and an array of restaurants , you 'll enjoy both convenience and an ideal location . This is the perfect opportunity for someone looking to invest in a home with character , ready to be finished to suit your tastes and lifestyle . Do n't miss out on the chance to make this property truly your own ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $395,000 <p> Tucked away on the corner of a peaceful block , this newly remodeled 2-story home is truly a hidden gem ; located only a couple blocks from the best amenities Richmond has to offer . 5 min from I-64 , easily walk to the grocery , parks , and beloved Richmond restaurants like The Market at 25th , Dolce Pizza , and The Woodville Pool ! With striking details in every space starting with the fully fenced yard and custom stone walkway . The gracious floor plan offers 5 bedrooms and over 2,255 SF of modern living space flooded with natural light and elegant chandeliers . As you move through the foyer you will notice the large , open kitchen with beautifully remodeled granite countertops , a multi-purpose island , SS appliances , gas stove &amp; hood ( with option to modify to electric access ) , lots of cabinet space &amp; an oversized custom pantry . Private 14 x 8 laundry room offers exceptional storage space , perfect for busy households . This home is built for entertaining &amp; unwinding . Spend your evenings in the private , low maintenance backyard with a covered stone back porch and a huge 1 car garage/workspace -- a rare gem in the heart of the lively city . Boasting an open concept with 9 ' ceiling downstairs , recessed lights , large sized bedrooms , and great storage space ! ! Spacious 1st floor bedroom could be easily used as a primary with its own ensuite bathroom . Massive primary suite on the 2nd floor features an additional attached room/WIC/storage space with newly updated light fixtures , giving you more than enough room to enjoy . 2 ? fully remodeled bathrooms with an oversized vanity , top to bottom marble tiling throughout , and tub/showers ! 4th , &amp; 5th bedrooms on the 2nd floor all feature NEW windows , NEW light fixtures and FRESH paint . Other modern amenities include but not limited to NEW HVACS , NEW roof , NEW insulation , additional off-street parking , NEW electricity , NEW plumbing and more ! This property is a must see -- explore the neighborhood and fall in love with Richmond living . Make this your forever home and schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $300,000 <p> This is a completely remodeled and move-in-ready Cape Cod 4 bedroom home in central Richmond ! Brand new for this next lucky owner is the kitchen ( including new stainless steel appliances , ) fresh paint inside and out , 2.5 fully renovated bathrooms , new HVAC , new light fixtures and ceiling fans , and new flooring throughout ( tile in the kitchen and bathrooms + new carpet . ) The vinyl siding is also new for worry-free exterior maintenance years ahead . There are 2 main level bedrooms with 1.5 baths downstairs , and 2 more bedrooms upstairs with a full bath up there . There is a nice sunroom adjacent to the kitchen , and there is additional square feet to entertain on the concrete patio out back with a fully fenced back yard ! There is street parking out front with additional parking out back by the 1-car garage - or you could use it as a storage shed ! This home is within walking distance to the McGuire VA Hospital ! It 's also just minutes away from Broad Rock Sports Complex , and both Hull Street and Hwy 301 shopping and restaurants . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $825,000 <p> Enjoy the best of both worlds : Live in a carefully restored three- or four- bedroom , 3 full bath antebellum home while collecting rent from the sophisticated one-bedroom apartment in the English basement . The entire house is a skillful blend of 19th century detail and modern conveniences such as an open floor plan with custom kitchen on the main level . High ceilings and large windows make for bright rooms even as burnished heart pine floors and original woodwork impart a sense of place . The second level has two bedrooms and a full bath . The original two bedrooms on the third floor have been combined into one large cozy space , perfect for bedroom and study , home office , or exercise/media room . Adjacent is a full bath . Masterfully renovated , this 176-year old treasure has gas heat , central air , and six rebuilt fireplaces , some with gas coals . Wide porches on the first and second floors overlook a fenced rear garden with terraces and irrigation . There is brick-paved parking for at least two cars off a cobblestone city alley . Please note that the basement is 770 SF of fully finished space , which is included in the total for the house . Nearby are some of the city 's best restaurants &amp; bakeries . Close to the James River , the Capital Trail , interstates , MCV/VCU , government offices , the airport , and Amtrak . Staging and new photos to come . -- <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $450,000 <p> Welcome to 2719 Chamberlayne Ave , a beautifully remodeled 4-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom home in the heart of Richmond ! This stunning residence offers a perfect blend of modern elegance and versatile living , making it ideal for families , professionals , or entrepreneurs seeking a home-based business space . Step inside to discover an inviting open-concept lower level that seamlessly connects the living , dining , and kitchen areas -- a perfect layout for entertaining and family gatherings . The living room boasts a coffered ceiling and a cozy fireplace , setting the stage for warm and memorable moments . Recessed lighting and chic new fixtures enhance every corner , creating a bright and welcoming ambiance . The kitchen is a chef 's dream , featuring gorgeous granite countertops , a stylish backsplash , and a complete stainless steel appliance package . Whether you 're whipping up a weekday dinner or hosting a weekend brunch , this kitchen is ready for it all ! The walk-out basement provides additional space for recreation , storage , or a home office . Upstairs , you 'll find two spacious suites , each offering privacy and comfort , plus an additional shared bathroom perfectly situated between the other two bedrooms . Vinyl replacement windows flood the home with natural light while providing energy efficiency . Outside , enjoy the serenity of your back lot surrounded by a 6-foot privacy fence , ideal for relaxing evenings or vibrant gatherings . The 1.5-car detached garage offers convenience and additional storage , while the charming front country porch invites you to unwind and soak in the neighborhood 's tranquility . With immediate access to amenities and just minutes from downtown Richmond , this location is unbeatable ! Embrace a lifestyle of comfort , convenience , and endless possibilities . Do n't miss your chance to own this incredible property . Check out the virtual tour ; see the real thing in person and make this home yours today . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $325,000 <p> Step inside this meticulously maintained and tastefully updated and completely renovated home . Nestled in a desirable neighborhood , this residence features a total of 5 bedrooms and 2.5 bathrooms , providing ample space for comfortable living . The upper level boasts 3 spacious bedrooms , perfect for accommodating family and guests , along with one fully renovated bathrooms ( 2024 ) featuring luxurious carpeted floors , ensuring comfort during the colder months . There is an additional room that can be home office or gym . On the main level , you 'll find an additional bedroom with full bathroom , ideal for a huge primary bedroom and a conveniently located half bathroom . The renovated kitchen ( 2024 ) includes additional counter space and cabinets , while also featuring modern appliances including a refrigerator ( 2024 ) and range ( 2024 ) , dishwasher ( 2024 ) , Washer , and Dryer all convey with the house . SECOND FLOOR HVAC unit was fully replaced in the spring of 2023 ensuring efficient heating and cooling throughout the year . First HVAC is about 6 years old . In addition , a tankless water heater ( 2024 ) will provide endless hot water on demand . The beautifully replaced windows ( 2024 ) adds charm and natural light to the living space , while the durable PVC front porch posts enhance the home 's curb appeal . Additionally , a motorized awning ( with cover ) was renovated , freshly painted front patio in June 2024 . Freshly painted fence walls in the backyard offer both functionality and style , with gravel areas for easy maintenance . For those with outdoor needs , a huge front porch patio to enjoy your morning cup of coffee . The roof , replaced in 2023 , and overall detailed maintenance of this property will ensure peace of mind for years to come . Experience the perfect blend of modern fully updates and comfortable living spaces ! This stunning home wo n't last long . Schedule a viewing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $535,000 <p> Absolutely beautiful completely renovated and expanded home in Church Hill North neighborhood offering incredible quality . Just completed , this home boasting 2278 SF of living space , 2 primary bedrooms w/ ensuite bathrooms , 2 additional beds and 2 additional bathrooms . Other features included luxury vinyl wood plank flooring throughout , Dimensional Shingle Roof ( 2024 ) , HVAC ( 2024 ) , hot water tank ( 2024 ) and updated plumbing &amp; electrical . The beautifully renovated kitchen includes 42 " cabinets with soft-close drawers , granite counters , tile backsplash , large sink , island w/ pendants , SS appliances . A spacious full bath is provided on the first floor , as well as the laundry room . Upstairs you 'll find the main large primary suite in the front of the house , with two sets of closets , fireplace , and beautiful custom tiled bathroom featuring large shower and slipper soaking tub . An additional primary bedroom with ensuite full bath is also part of this beautiful home . Rounding off the 2nd floor are two additional bedrooms with a hall bath , featuring another custom tiled shower to complete this floor . Right off the kitchen area is a pair of French doors that lead you to the professionally landscaped backyard with gorgeous sod . This yard is fully enclosed with a privacy height wood fencing . The large deck would provide ample opportunities for your entertaining purposes , in addition is a detached studio , measuring about 230 sq ft and a separate storage closet for your yard supplies or bikes ! As a corner lot , you 've also got access to plenty of off-street parking . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $425,000 <p> Discover this charming home nestled on a spacious corner lot , offering inviting curb appeal with a generous 31 ' front porch , perfect for relaxing and greeting neighbors . The home boasts replacement windows for energy efficiency , and a fully fenced rear yard , ideal for privacy and entertaining . You 'll also enjoy the flexibility of both street parking and the option for rear parking by the garage . Step inside to find a welcoming 7 ' x 8 ' hardwood-floored entryway , leading directly to the expansive living room with a cozy fireplace and surrounding book/ display cases or through a pass-thru into the upgraded kitchen . Storage abounds with numerous closets , a dedicated 4 ' x 6 ' pantry , and a 4 ' x 11 ' + mudroom outfitted with LVP flooring . Convenient dual staircases provide easy access to the second floor , whether from the main entry or the mudroom . Renovated in 2022 , this home boasts a stunning , upgraded kitchen featuring stylish Shaker cabinets and sleek quartz countertops . The third-floor flex space offers endless possibilities -- think home office , studio , or guest retreat . Enjoy peace of mind with new appliances ( 2022 ) , modern HVAC units , a hot water heater , and an entirely updated electrical system . The Basement provides ample storage and potential for an additional half bath . In the back is a spacious garage ( conveyed as-is but in solid condition ) with potential for a driveway from the street . This home is move-in ready . Make it yours and enjoy a blend of character , modern comforts , and fantastic versatility ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $390,000 <p> Welcome to 2100 Harwood St , a beautifully renovated gem that offers the ideal space for your family ! This well-maintained , 1.5-level home boasts 6 spacious bedrooms , 4 full bathrooms , and a generous 2,543 sqft of living space . The home features a paved driveway , a fully fenced yard , and two HVAC units ensuring year-round comfort . You 'll love the stunning kitchen with granite countertops and a cozy eat-in breakfast area , perfect for family meals . The backyard provides a great space for gatherings and relaxation . With modern updates throughout , including renovated bathrooms and stylish finishes , this home is move-in ready and waiting for you ! Schedule your showing today and make this gorgeous property yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $434,900 <p> **Motivated Seller** A Unique Opportunity to own this stunning 1920s 2 Story with a double corner lot . Two Primary Bedrooms 1st &amp; 2nd floors with full bath ensuite 's . Total 4 Bedrooms and 4 Full Baths . Fully renovated with full finished basement and situated on a massive sized lot ! Inviting entry with 9-foot ceilings . Open living , dining and entertainment spaces as well as plenty of privacy and comfort in mind . Elegant finishes include luxurious vinyl plank floors , fresh paint , high end light fixtures &amp; hardware throughout . All new kitchen cabinets with quartz countertops and stainless-steel appliances . The 2nd level offers a primary bedroom ensuite , two additional bedrooms and another full bath . Possibilities galore with a separate entrance to the Basement featuring another full bath and open floor plan . This could be a Rec Room , 5th Bedroom , Office , Guest , In-law Suite or Rent a Room for xtra income . Completing the Interior with an insulated walk-up attic featuring plenty of floored storage space and headroom . An attractive landscaped outdoor space includes a concrete patio and completely fenced in yard with concrete driveway . Detached storage shed with lighting and work bench . A lot this size offers many possibilities from building a garage , in-law suite , swimming pool or another home . Subdivision possible . Other features include HVAC , New Water Heater , Sump Pump and peace of mind with a low maintenance exterior vinyl siding , new roof , new energy efficient windows , new electrical and new plumbing all with approved building permits . Ask about adding custom finishes if desired . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $995,000 <p> ( This home needs some work , but does have much to offer .. we are releasing this this week as we have an opportunity to rent , but if anyone would have interest to purchase after the release , we would be open to considering ) LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION ! What is it about this street that makes it so inviting ? ! ? This charming 1930 's Tudor home features 5 bedrooms , 5 bathrooms , a work-out room in basement and 2585 square feet , with 340 finished square feet in the basement . Step into the spacious formal living area , open to the sun porch with its old but charming space . Previous owner added many updates to include a new kitchen , and updated bathrooms . Yes , it 's going to be dated , but this street , and this homes charm are definitely inviting . The first floor bedroom with french doors leading to the deck and a bathroom en suite can second as a family room , complete with built-in bookcases and it 's own fireplace . Upstairs has the large main bedroom with its own bath , and 3 additional bedrooms providing ample space , with two connected by a convenient Jack &amp; Jill bathroom . The walk-out basement offers a workout room with a closet , a bathroom and washer/dryer . Outside , enjoy the lovely freshly stained deck , perfect for outdoor dining or relaxation . This one offers easy access from a paved alley to a two-car garage &amp; a path to the home . The fenced-in yard provides privacy and space for outdoor activities ( Fence on sides belong to other homeowners ) . New roof ( 2023 ) , HVAC ( 2022 ) , and appliances 1-2 years old . With its classic charm and modern amenities , 42 Willway Ave on this sought after street allows a potential opportunity to own a piece of history with endless possibilities . Willway is a block or two from Mary Munford Elementary School , 3-5 minutes to Carytown , 3-6 minutes to Monument Avenue and has easy access to interstates and main roads . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $475,000 <p> Unique duplex in Barton Heights sitting on an a large corner lot . Unit 1 offers 2000 Square feet of living space with three levels . Walking into the unit you will find a two story foyer with a large staircase . The large family room is open to the recently renovated kitchen . The oversized kitchen features Granite countertops , modern cabinets , and stainless steel appliances . On the second floor you will find two large bedrooms and a recently remodeled full bathroom . The third floor features flex space/office and another full bathroom . Unit 2 offers 1726 finished square feet and has a separate outside entrance . Inside the unit on the first floor you will find a spacious living room , kitchen and a half bathroom . The second floor has 2 nice sized bedrooms each with its own full bathroom . Both units have central air , washer/dryer , and original hardwood flooring . The exterior of the property features a large wrap around front porch and a recently landscaped front and side yard . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $725,000 <p> INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY for this UNIQUE property in the heart of the Fan ! Steps away from Sticky Rice and other classic Fan restaurants and shops ! This property is actually TWO PARCELS deeded together -- the main house at 1 N. Stafford and a CARRIAGE HOUSE/STUDIO located at 2330 W. Main St. SOLID RENTAL HISTORY on both units , OR live in the home and rent the carriage house ! It 's TWO FOR ONE ! This 1,374 sq ft classic brick Fan row home features a spacious living room , dining area and kitchen on the first floor , and three bedrooms ( one is a trunk room being used as a spacious walk-in closet and dressing room ) and full bath ( with custom glass tile flooring ) upstairs . Wood floors , high ceilings -- ALL THE THINGS ! Brand new upper deck ! The carriage house/studio apartment provides an additional 364 square feet and is perfect for a home office , guest house , Air BnB , full time rental or studio space . There is a shared courtyard between the house and carriage house , with a locked gate for outdoor entertaining at its best . **This property is one deed with two separate tax parcels , two mailing addresses ( 1 N. Stafford and 2330 W. Main St ) and separate utilities . ( tax ID #W0001038031 main house and #W0001038030 studio ) . Truly an amazing opportunity and a must see ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $325,000 <p> Step into a piece of history revitalized for modern living with this meticulously renovated historic home , transformed into a thriving PadSplit residence in 2022 . Nestled in a prime location along a busline with friendly neighbors and close proximity to parks and grocery stores , this property combines timeless charm with practicality . Boasting 6 bedrooms of varying sizes , each equipped with smart locks for secure and convenient access , it currently generates a robust net monthly income exceeding $3,000 . Two full bathrooms , built with durable roofing materials , cater to communal living needs , complemented by a communal outdoor patio . Updated with a new roof in 2015 and essential HVAC , electrical , and plumbing upgrades in 2015/2016 , the property ensures minimal maintenance and longevity . Originally intended for student rentals , it has achieved remarkable occupancy rates with only 6 turnovers in its inaugural year , offering stability with tenants able to give one week 's notice to vacate . Beyond its current use as a PadSplit , the property offers flexibility as it can also function as a traditional single-family residence , with the PadSplit lease terminable upon one month 's notice . Detailed financials and lease agreements are available upon request , making this an ideal investment opportunity or comfortable residence with income potential in a sought-after locale. <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $1,500,000 <p> Step into a piece of history with this charming Dutch Tudor-style home built in 1929 , nestled in the heart of historic City Point with a waterfront view where the Appomattox and James Rivers converge . This spacious 5-bedroom , 3.5-bath home boasts 4,075 square feet of living space and is set on a generous 2.92-acre lot , offering both privacy and ample room for outdoor activities . The home 's architectural integrity is beautifully preserved , showcasing intricate wood and brickwork details that echo its storied past . With a large 4-car garage , there 's plenty of space for vehicles and storage . Designed with entertaining in mind , this home provides the perfect backdrop for hosting family and friends . The expansive layout and scenic surroundings make it ideal for gatherings , while its prime location means you 're just 30 minutes from Richmond and 45 minutes from Williamsburg . If you 're looking for a home that combines historic charm with modern conveniences and is perfect for enjoying river views and outdoor activities , 701 Appomattox St is the perfect fit for you . Do n't miss this opportunity to own a unique piece of Hopewell 's history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,149,950 <p> Welcome to the historic residence at 2018 Princess Anne Avenue ! Built in the early 20th century , this was the last home constructed on Princess Anne Avenue . It is a historically registered place citywide , statewide , and nationwide . There have been modernizations to the kitchen , bathrooms , and rooftop deck . The home has been lovingly maintained and kept in excellent condition by homeowner . The property exudes distinct character traits distinguishing it from other homes in the Union Hill and Church Hill area . You 'll have access to 4 different outdoor spaces including a full front covered porch with ample room to sit privately or host company , an outdoor balcony from the primary bedroom overlooking Jefferson Park , a fenced back patio , and a rooftop deck for you and your guests leisure time . The home possesses 9 ft+. ceilings on each of the 3 floors . The entire 3rd floor could be used as an optional income unit or in-law suite featuring , living rm , 2 bedrooms , 1 full bath , kitchen w/fridge , multiple room arrangement plans and access to rooftop deck . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $519,900 <p> Featuring newly refinished hardwood floors , a detached garage , and fresh paint throughout this gorgeous property is ready to welcome you home ! You 'll love parking in your own private garage then make your way up the recently re-stained porch , through the back door , and into the mudroom - the perfect space to kick off your shoes and hang your coat at the end of the day . Continue into the eat-in kitchen with stainless appliances and mobile island with breakfast bar . Open to the kitchen is a light and bright dining room featuring a new modern light fixture and an abundance of natural light ! Continue into the living room that boasts beautiful French doors , a cozy stone fireplace , and a new modern light fixture making this the perfect place to entertain guests . Also on the first floor is a half bathroom with updated fixture and mirror . Upstairs you will find four sizable bedrooms and a full bathroom with updated vanity , light fixture , and mirror ! This property also features a partially finished basement with a shower . Enjoy convenient access to Byrd and Maymont Park , as well as local dining and shopping . Do n't miss out on owning this gorgeous property in the desirable Byrd Park area . Schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $850,000 <p> Steeped in history and fully updated for modern living , this stunning 1890 Churchill home offers the perfect blend of preserved charm and contemporary luxury . Fully renovated to the studs in 2018 , updates include a new TPO and shingled roof , 2-zone HVAC , tankless water heater , plumbing , and electrical -- plus brand-new wood siding in 2024 . Offering 4 spacious bedrooms and 3.5 baths , this home features two primary suites -- one on each floor -- each with private porches . The second-floor suite boasts a cozy wood-burning stove , multiple closets , a spa-like en-suite bath with dual vanity , soaking tub , and glass shower , plus a private study with wet bar and balcony access . The chef 's kitchen is a true highlight with a farmhouse sink , gas cooking , and breakfast bar , all open to a light-filled living space with soaring coffered ceilings and 6 total fireplaces . Outdoors , enjoy a full front porch , a stamped concrete patio , front and side gardens , and a private fenced rear . Off-street parking completes the package . This is your chance to own a beautifully restored historic gem close to some of the city 's best restaurants and sites ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $599,999 <p> Rare opportunity for investors or owner-occupants to own a completely renovated duplex with a garage on tree-lined Leonard Parkway in the desirable Near West End . Each unit features a spacious living room , dining room , kitchen with private porch access , two bedrooms , one bathroom , and in-unit washer/dryer . The head-to-toe renovation includes a new roof , kitchens , bathrooms , two heat pumps , ductwork , Pella windows , two water heaters , main water line , washers/dryers , gutters , crawl space insulation and hatch , interior and exterior paint , doors , hardware , upgraded plumbing and electrical , and more ! There is a full front porch with a swing and two new large , covered rear porches that lead to the garden enclosed by a new privacy fence . Additionally , there is a divided 2-car garage with individual pedestrian doors , plus separate utilities for each unit . Ideal for generating rental income or living in one unit while renting out the other . Completely turnkey and ready to go -- this is an exceptional opportunity in a prime location ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $220,000 <p> Are you looking for your next investment property ? Come check out this Duplex in Hopewell ! There is a 3rd unit at this property inside the garage . This property has had lots of renovations and with some small finishing touches you could turn this into 3 units with good rental returns ! Upstairs has all new windows except for 1 . Roof is brand new ! All units have their own entrance . 1 car garage as well ! Lots of extra lot space in the rear of property with a fully fenced in lot ! There is lots of potential with this property ! All personal property to include carports , storage containers etc. do not convey but are negotiable . <h> Top stories of 2024 : City 's credit card program hit by abuse <p> In May , the Richmond Times-Dispatch reported that the city credit cards assigned to Registrar Keith Balmer and Deputy Registrar Jerry Richardson -- who together oversaw Richmond 's Office of Elections -- had been suspended after tens of thousands of dollars in questionable charges . <p> That analysis revealed dozens of transactions that were not consistent with city procurement rules . It also showed that then-city spokesperson Petula Burks had used her card to make nearly $100,000 worth of purchases at firms connected to her former business partner . <p> City spokesperson Petula Burks speaks at City Hall on June 8 , 2022 , during Mayor Levar Stoney 's unveiling of a new branding identity for Richmond . An analysis by The Times-Dispatch showed that Burks had used her city credit card to make nearly $100,000 worth of purchases at firms connected to her former business partner . Asked about those charges , she resigned on July 2 . <p> Eva Russo , Times-Dispatch <p> Asked about those charges , Burks resigned on July 2 . Later that month , officials announced measures to " improve efficiency and oversight " in the procurement department , which manages the credit cards . <h> Historical homes you can own in the Richmond area <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,925,000 <p> Looking for a move-in ready luxury home in the Fan ? Welcome to this finely renovated and restored property on Monument Avenue , where historical charm seamlessly blends with modern luxury . Inside , you will find gracious parlors adorned with beautiful millwork , marble fireplaces , and original heart pine floors . Expansive formal rooms , filled with natural light , transition effortlessly into a gourmet kitchen designed for culinary enthusiasts and entertainers alike . The kitchen features granite countertops , ample storage , and a large center island with two sinks . Top-of-the-line appliances include a Wolf 6-burner gas range with roll-out storage , a Wolf gas oven , a Bosch stainless steel dishwasher , and a GE Monogram refrigerator and convection microwave . Adjacent to the kitchen , a covered rear porch and slate patio offer a peaceful setting overlooking the gardens , perfect for relaxing with a coffee or cocktail while enjoying the garden waterfall . The second floor features a main bedroom suite with two luxurious ensuite baths , both with large walk-in showers . One ensuite includes a beautiful vanity , an original fireplace , and a spacious walk-in closet/dressing room with built-ins . The third floor serves as a private retreat , complete with a bedroom , an adjoining living room , and a wet bar with a sink and mini fridge . This level also includes a versatile space ideal for a home office or gym . The full , unfinished basement offers extensive storage options and potential for a wine cellar . The renovation includes a secure gate with an auto opener , providing alley access and parking for two cars . With many recent updates overseen by 3North Architects and executed by Marc Franko Contracting , this home is truly move-in ready . Experience the perfect blend of historic elegance and contemporary living on Monument Avenue . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,950,000 <p> Welcome to the " Billups " home , a landmark in the heart of historic Church Hill ! Built in 1860 by William J Westwood , a brick foundry owner , this home showcases remarkable attention to detail and one-of-a-kind features dating to the 19th century . Charles J Billups , a prominent Richmond citizen and owner of the Chas J Billups &amp; Sons Funeral Home purchased the home in 1912 and it remained in the Billups family until 1999 . Two concrete dogs were added at the entrance which earned it the Church Hill nickname of " The Dog House " . The current owners modernized the home and added spectacular outdoor spaces , while preserving the original features and quirky traits that make it a special property . The wrap-around front porch provides the perfect welcome , as do the two sets of front doors which open to a striking foyer . Light pours in through floor-to-ceiling windows on the first level , and the formal rooms flow seamlessly into a comfortable family room open to the modern eat-in kitchen and a deck overlooking the backyard . Upstairs the primary suite is a dream with a spacious walk-in closet and renovated bath . Three additional bedrooms ( one with its own bath ) , a hall bath , loads of storage , and a laundry area round out the second level . The finished basement is a treasure trove of original features and additional space ! An English basement entrance leads to original brick walls , a bedroom , a sitting room/office , a wet bar , a half bath , a flex/fitness room , and a storage area that once served as the original kitchen . It 's the home 's outdoor spaces that are unmatched in the area ! The front porch is the perfect spot to read a book or just say hi to neighbors . The back of the home has herringbone brickwork , plenty of parking , and a private driveway with two automatic gates that provide an entrance from 27th Street . Church Hill is a walker 's delight with coffee shops , restaurants , parks , historic sites , and festivals around every corner . The Billups home offers a rare chance to own a unique piece of Richmond history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $355,000 <p> Charming 5-Bedroom Brick Home with Modern Amenities . Step into elegance and comfort with this beautifully renovated 5-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom brick home . A perfect blend of classic charm and modern amenities awaits you , offering an unparalleled living experience . With five generously sized bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms , this home is perfect for families of all sizes . Updated to perfection , the kitchen boasts a large island and ample counter space . The expansive deck provides a wonderful space for hosting gatherings or enjoying quiet evenings under the stars . The finished basement offers a private bedroom and bathroom , while the beautifully finished attic includes another bedroom and full bath , adding versatility to your living arrangements . Enjoy the timeless appeal and low maintenance of a durable brick facade . This home combines elegance with functionality and is suited for both everyday living and entertaining . Do n't miss the opportunity to make this exquisite property your own . You can go ahead and schedule a tour today to experience the beauty and craftsmanship firsthand . Your dream home awaits ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $410,000 <p> Welcome to this beautifully designed 4-bedroom , 3-bathroom home that blends comfort , functionality , and style . As you enter , you 're greeted by a modern living room featuring built-in shelves and an elegant electric fireplace , creating the perfect setting for relaxation and entertaining . The open-concept layout flows seamlessly into the dining room and kitchen area , ideal for the everyday living . The kitchen has ample granite countertops , sleek stainless steel appliances and plenty of cabinet space . Just off the kitchen , you 'll find a large laundry room that offers plenty of space for washing , folding , and ironing clothes -- perfect for keeping things organized . The primary bedroom is a true retreat , located upstairs with abundant natural light and a generous layout . It includes a private en-suite bathroom with a massive walk-in shower , offering a relaxing escape . The second upstairs bedroom is also well-sized , and there is a secondary bathroom conveniently located nearby . Downstairs , two additional bedrooms share a Jack and Jill bath , making this space versatile for use as a home office and/or as guest bedrooms . Enjoy outdoor living with a welcoming front porch , a nice deck in the back , and a fully fenced yard -- perfect for children or pets to play safely . With its thoughtful design , functional layout , and stylish finishes , this home offers everything you need and more . Located just minutes from downtown Richmond and Henrico 's attractions . Schedule a showing today and make this beautiful home yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $669,000 <p> This gorgeous home resides in the much-desired Ginter Park neighborhood , in Northside Richmond . This amazing all-brick gem has a slate roof , an amazing kitchen , primary en suite , has hardwood oak floors throughout , and has been lovingly cared for . Downstairs you will find a living room , den , dining room , the eat-in kitchen with screen porch access , a bedroom &amp; one full bath ( with laundry chute ! ) . Upstairs , there are 3 full bedrooms &amp; 2 full baths . The primary features a very large bedroom with fireplace , a walk-through closet with rear porch access , &amp; a full bath with walk-in shower , double vanities &amp; a heated floor . The primary has access to both the front porch &amp; the back porch so you can pick which one you wish to use to start your day &amp; enjoy your morning coffee viewing the amazing landscaping . The home has a full basement that has been freshly painted &amp; a new laundry area added ; this area has plenty of extra space that can provide storage or a place to create a man cave or hang-out space for the kids . The attic space is fully floored w/ high enough ceilings &amp; enough space to potentially convert into another living area . Outside , you will find a native floral paradise with a huge yard &amp; a detached two-car garage . The owner has labeled native plants &amp; flowers throughout so the new owners will be able to identify &amp; enjoy come Spring . The backyard is fully fenced &amp; the circular drive has gates so you can park in the rear of the home should you choose . This home is ideal for a growing family or those who would love to live in the city &amp; its ease of access everywhere . Interstates 64 &amp; 95 are within just minutes of this location . There is a neighborhood pool association only a block away , making this location a true draw for kids &amp; fitness buffs ! Enjoy all that the Northside has to offer in a truly walkable neighborhood or a quick drive to Downtown , Carytown , or Lakeside . Come check out this beauty &amp; make her your own before it is too late ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $280,000 <p> Priced Below Assesment ! ! ! ! This beautiful all brick 2 story Colonial style home with partial unfinished basement is conveniently located to shopping and interstates in the heart of Hopewell ! ! ! This home boast 5 bedrooms 2.5 baths with a en-suite on the first floor ! ! ! A large front screened porch is great for enjoying your early morning coffee . Sitting on one of the largest lots in town at just shy on an acre that icludes 2 seperate driveway entrances that make it very convenient to access with plenty parking . The large foyer opens into the great room with masonry fireplace/ gas log insert , formal dining room , kitchen includes island , custom cabinentry and gas stove for cooking . Utility room with washer and dryer hookup . Lets not forget the 2 detached garages , ( 1 ) 20x20 unfinished 2 car garage and also a ( 30x30 ) fully finished 2+ car gararge with a gas fired furnace and an ac unit ! ! ! Do nt miss this great opportunity ! ! ! ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $699,990 <p> Located in a highly sought-after neighborhood , this single-family home offers a rare opportunity to create your dream space . While renovations have begun , there is still plenty of room for customization , allowing you to put your personal touch on this home and unlock its full potential . With a solid foundation and a layout filled with charm , this property offers incredible equity potential for the right buyer . The home features a spacious , finished basement perfect for additional living space or storage , and a detached shed that adds versatility for hobbies , a workshop , or even an entertainment area . Situated just moments from top-rated schools and an array of restaurants , you 'll enjoy both convenience and an ideal location . This is the perfect opportunity for someone looking to invest in a home with character , ready to be finished to suit your tastes and lifestyle . Do n't miss out on the chance to make this property truly your own ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $395,000 <p> Tucked away on the corner of a peaceful block , this newly remodeled 2-story home is truly a hidden gem ; located only a couple blocks from the best amenities Richmond has to offer . 5 min from I-64 , easily walk to the grocery , parks , and beloved Richmond restaurants like The Market at 25th , Dolce Pizza , and The Woodville Pool ! With striking details in every space starting with the fully fenced yard and custom stone walkway . The gracious floor plan offers 5 bedrooms and over 2,255 SF of modern living space flooded with natural light and elegant chandeliers . As you move through the foyer you will notice the large , open kitchen with beautifully remodeled granite countertops , a multi-purpose island , SS appliances , gas stove &amp; hood ( with option to modify to electric access ) , lots of cabinet space &amp; an oversized custom pantry . Private 14 x 8 laundry room offers exceptional storage space , perfect for busy households . This home is built for entertaining &amp; unwinding . Spend your evenings in the private , low maintenance backyard with a covered stone back porch and a huge 1 car garage/workspace -- a rare gem in the heart of the lively city . Boasting an open concept with 9 ' ceiling downstairs , recessed lights , large sized bedrooms , and great storage space ! ! Spacious 1st floor bedroom could be easily used as a primary with its own ensuite bathroom . Massive primary suite on the 2nd floor features an additional attached room/WIC/storage space with newly updated light fixtures , giving you more than enough room to enjoy . 2 ? fully remodeled bathrooms with an oversized vanity , top to bottom marble tiling throughout , and tub/showers ! 4th , &amp; 5th bedrooms on the 2nd floor all feature NEW windows , NEW light fixtures and FRESH paint . Other modern amenities include but not limited to NEW HVACS , NEW roof , NEW insulation , additional off-street parking , NEW electricity , NEW plumbing and more ! This property is a must see -- explore the neighborhood and fall in love with Richmond living . Make this your forever home and schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $300,000 <p> This is a completely remodeled and move-in-ready Cape Cod 4 bedroom home in central Richmond ! Brand new for this next lucky owner is the kitchen ( including new stainless steel appliances , ) fresh paint inside and out , 2.5 fully renovated bathrooms , new HVAC , new light fixtures and ceiling fans , and new flooring throughout ( tile in the kitchen and bathrooms + new carpet . ) The vinyl siding is also new for worry-free exterior maintenance years ahead . There are 2 main level bedrooms with 1.5 baths downstairs , and 2 more bedrooms upstairs with a full bath up there . There is a nice sunroom adjacent to the kitchen , and there is additional square feet to entertain on the concrete patio out back with a fully fenced back yard ! There is street parking out front with additional parking out back by the 1-car garage - or you could use it as a storage shed ! This home is within walking distance to the McGuire VA Hospital ! It 's also just minutes away from Broad Rock Sports Complex , and both Hull Street and Hwy 301 shopping and restaurants . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $825,000 <p> Enjoy the best of both worlds : Live in a carefully restored three- or four- bedroom , 3 full bath antebellum home while collecting rent from the sophisticated one-bedroom apartment in the English basement . The entire house is a skillful blend of 19th century detail and modern conveniences such as an open floor plan with custom kitchen on the main level . High ceilings and large windows make for bright rooms even as burnished heart pine floors and original woodwork impart a sense of place . The second level has two bedrooms and a full bath . The original two bedrooms on the third floor have been combined into one large cozy space , perfect for bedroom and study , home office , or exercise/media room . Adjacent is a full bath . Masterfully renovated , this 176-year old treasure has gas heat , central air , and six rebuilt fireplaces , some with gas coals . Wide porches on the first and second floors overlook a fenced rear garden with terraces and irrigation . There is brick-paved parking for at least two cars off a cobblestone city alley . Please note that the basement is 770 SF of fully finished space , which is included in the total for the house . Nearby are some of the city 's best restaurants &amp; bakeries . Close to the James River , the Capital Trail , interstates , MCV/VCU , government offices , the airport , and Amtrak . Staging and new photos to come . -- <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $450,000 <p> Welcome to 2719 Chamberlayne Ave , a beautifully remodeled 4-bedroom , 3.5-bathroom home in the heart of Richmond ! This stunning residence offers a perfect blend of modern elegance and versatile living , making it ideal for families , professionals , or entrepreneurs seeking a home-based business space . Step inside to discover an inviting open-concept lower level that seamlessly connects the living , dining , and kitchen areas -- a perfect layout for entertaining and family gatherings . The living room boasts a coffered ceiling and a cozy fireplace , setting the stage for warm and memorable moments . Recessed lighting and chic new fixtures enhance every corner , creating a bright and welcoming ambiance . The kitchen is a chef 's dream , featuring gorgeous granite countertops , a stylish backsplash , and a complete stainless steel appliance package . Whether you 're whipping up a weekday dinner or hosting a weekend brunch , this kitchen is ready for it all ! The walk-out basement provides additional space for recreation , storage , or a home office . Upstairs , you 'll find two spacious suites , each offering privacy and comfort , plus an additional shared bathroom perfectly situated between the other two bedrooms . Vinyl replacement windows flood the home with natural light while providing energy efficiency . Outside , enjoy the serenity of your back lot surrounded by a 6-foot privacy fence , ideal for relaxing evenings or vibrant gatherings . The 1.5-car detached garage offers convenience and additional storage , while the charming front country porch invites you to unwind and soak in the neighborhood 's tranquility . With immediate access to amenities and just minutes from downtown Richmond , this location is unbeatable ! Embrace a lifestyle of comfort , convenience , and endless possibilities . Do n't miss your chance to own this incredible property . Check out the virtual tour ; see the real thing in person and make this home yours today . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Henrico - $325,000 <p> Step inside this meticulously maintained and tastefully updated and completely renovated home . Nestled in a desirable neighborhood , this residence features a total of 5 bedrooms and 2.5 bathrooms , providing ample space for comfortable living . The upper level boasts 3 spacious bedrooms , perfect for accommodating family and guests , along with one fully renovated bathrooms ( 2024 ) featuring luxurious carpeted floors , ensuring comfort during the colder months . There is an additional room that can be home office or gym . On the main level , you 'll find an additional bedroom with full bathroom , ideal for a huge primary bedroom and a conveniently located half bathroom . The renovated kitchen ( 2024 ) includes additional counter space and cabinets , while also featuring modern appliances including a refrigerator ( 2024 ) and range ( 2024 ) , dishwasher ( 2024 ) , Washer , and Dryer all convey with the house . SECOND FLOOR HVAC unit was fully replaced in the spring of 2023 ensuring efficient heating and cooling throughout the year . First HVAC is about 6 years old . In addition , a tankless water heater ( 2024 ) will provide endless hot water on demand . The beautifully replaced windows ( 2024 ) adds charm and natural light to the living space , while the durable PVC front porch posts enhance the home 's curb appeal . Additionally , a motorized awning ( with cover ) was renovated , freshly painted front patio in June 2024 . Freshly painted fence walls in the backyard offer both functionality and style , with gravel areas for easy maintenance . For those with outdoor needs , a huge front porch patio to enjoy your morning cup of coffee . The roof , replaced in 2023 , and overall detailed maintenance of this property will ensure peace of mind for years to come . Experience the perfect blend of modern fully updates and comfortable living spaces ! This stunning home wo n't last long . Schedule a viewing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $535,000 <p> Absolutely beautiful completely renovated and expanded home in Church Hill North neighborhood offering incredible quality . Just completed , this home boasting 2278 SF of living space , 2 primary bedrooms w/ ensuite bathrooms , 2 additional beds and 2 additional bathrooms . Other features included luxury vinyl wood plank flooring throughout , Dimensional Shingle Roof ( 2024 ) , HVAC ( 2024 ) , hot water tank ( 2024 ) and updated plumbing &amp; electrical . The beautifully renovated kitchen includes 42 " cabinets with soft-close drawers , granite counters , tile backsplash , large sink , island w/ pendants , SS appliances . A spacious full bath is provided on the first floor , as well as the laundry room . Upstairs you 'll find the main large primary suite in the front of the house , with two sets of closets , fireplace , and beautiful custom tiled bathroom featuring large shower and slipper soaking tub . An additional primary bedroom with ensuite full bath is also part of this beautiful home . Rounding off the 2nd floor are two additional bedrooms with a hall bath , featuring another custom tiled shower to complete this floor . Right off the kitchen area is a pair of French doors that lead you to the professionally landscaped backyard with gorgeous sod . This yard is fully enclosed with a privacy height wood fencing . The large deck would provide ample opportunities for your entertaining purposes , in addition is a detached studio , measuring about 230 sq ft and a separate storage closet for your yard supplies or bikes ! As a corner lot , you 've also got access to plenty of off-street parking . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $425,000 <p> Discover this charming home nestled on a spacious corner lot , offering inviting curb appeal with a generous 31 ' front porch , perfect for relaxing and greeting neighbors . The home boasts replacement windows for energy efficiency , and a fully fenced rear yard , ideal for privacy and entertaining . You 'll also enjoy the flexibility of both street parking and the option for rear parking by the garage . Step inside to find a welcoming 7 ' x 8 ' hardwood-floored entryway , leading directly to the expansive living room with a cozy fireplace and surrounding book/ display cases or through a pass-thru into the upgraded kitchen . Storage abounds with numerous closets , a dedicated 4 ' x 6 ' pantry , and a 4 ' x 11 ' + mudroom outfitted with LVP flooring . Convenient dual staircases provide easy access to the second floor , whether from the main entry or the mudroom . Renovated in 2022 , this home boasts a stunning , upgraded kitchen featuring stylish Shaker cabinets and sleek quartz countertops . The third-floor flex space offers endless possibilities -- think home office , studio , or guest retreat . Enjoy peace of mind with new appliances ( 2022 ) , modern HVAC units , a hot water heater , and an entirely updated electrical system . The Basement provides ample storage and potential for an additional half bath . In the back is a spacious garage ( conveyed as-is but in solid condition ) with potential for a driveway from the street . This home is move-in ready . Make it yours and enjoy a blend of character , modern comforts , and fantastic versatility ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $390,000 <p> Welcome to 2100 Harwood St , a beautifully renovated gem that offers the ideal space for your family ! This well-maintained , 1.5-level home boasts 6 spacious bedrooms , 4 full bathrooms , and a generous 2,543 sqft of living space . The home features a paved driveway , a fully fenced yard , and two HVAC units ensuring year-round comfort . You 'll love the stunning kitchen with granite countertops and a cozy eat-in breakfast area , perfect for family meals . The backyard provides a great space for gatherings and relaxation . With modern updates throughout , including renovated bathrooms and stylish finishes , this home is move-in ready and waiting for you ! Schedule your showing today and make this gorgeous property yours ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $434,900 <p> **Motivated Seller** A Unique Opportunity to own this stunning 1920s 2 Story with a double corner lot . Two Primary Bedrooms 1st &amp; 2nd floors with full bath ensuite 's . Total 4 Bedrooms and 4 Full Baths . Fully renovated with full finished basement and situated on a massive sized lot ! Inviting entry with 9-foot ceilings . Open living , dining and entertainment spaces as well as plenty of privacy and comfort in mind . Elegant finishes include luxurious vinyl plank floors , fresh paint , high end light fixtures &amp; hardware throughout . All new kitchen cabinets with quartz countertops and stainless-steel appliances . The 2nd level offers a primary bedroom ensuite , two additional bedrooms and another full bath . Possibilities galore with a separate entrance to the Basement featuring another full bath and open floor plan . This could be a Rec Room , 5th Bedroom , Office , Guest , In-law Suite or Rent a Room for xtra income . Completing the Interior with an insulated walk-up attic featuring plenty of floored storage space and headroom . An attractive landscaped outdoor space includes a concrete patio and completely fenced in yard with concrete driveway . Detached storage shed with lighting and work bench . A lot this size offers many possibilities from building a garage , in-law suite , swimming pool or another home . Subdivision possible . Other features include HVAC , New Water Heater , Sump Pump and peace of mind with a low maintenance exterior vinyl siding , new roof , new energy efficient windows , new electrical and new plumbing all with approved building permits . Ask about adding custom finishes if desired . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $995,000 <p> ( This home needs some work , but does have much to offer .. we are releasing this this week as we have an opportunity to rent , but if anyone would have interest to purchase after the release , we would be open to considering ) LOCATION LOCATION LOCATION ! What is it about this street that makes it so inviting ? ! ? This charming 1930 's Tudor home features 5 bedrooms , 5 bathrooms , a work-out room in basement and 2585 square feet , with 340 finished square feet in the basement . Step into the spacious formal living area , open to the sun porch with its old but charming space . Previous owner added many updates to include a new kitchen , and updated bathrooms . Yes , it 's going to be dated , but this street , and this homes charm are definitely inviting . The first floor bedroom with french doors leading to the deck and a bathroom en suite can second as a family room , complete with built-in bookcases and it 's own fireplace . Upstairs has the large main bedroom with its own bath , and 3 additional bedrooms providing ample space , with two connected by a convenient Jack &amp; Jill bathroom . The walk-out basement offers a workout room with a closet , a bathroom and washer/dryer . Outside , enjoy the lovely freshly stained deck , perfect for outdoor dining or relaxation . This one offers easy access from a paved alley to a two-car garage &amp; a path to the home . The fenced-in yard provides privacy and space for outdoor activities ( Fence on sides belong to other homeowners ) . New roof ( 2023 ) , HVAC ( 2022 ) , and appliances 1-2 years old . With its classic charm and modern amenities , 42 Willway Ave on this sought after street allows a potential opportunity to own a piece of history with endless possibilities . Willway is a block or two from Mary Munford Elementary School , 3-5 minutes to Carytown , 3-6 minutes to Monument Avenue and has easy access to interstates and main roads . <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $475,000 <p> Unique duplex in Barton Heights sitting on an a large corner lot . Unit 1 offers 2000 Square feet of living space with three levels . Walking into the unit you will find a two story foyer with a large staircase . The large family room is open to the recently renovated kitchen . The oversized kitchen features Granite countertops , modern cabinets , and stainless steel appliances . On the second floor you will find two large bedrooms and a recently remodeled full bathroom . The third floor features flex space/office and another full bathroom . Unit 2 offers 1726 finished square feet and has a separate outside entrance . Inside the unit on the first floor you will find a spacious living room , kitchen and a half bathroom . The second floor has 2 nice sized bedrooms each with its own full bathroom . Both units have central air , washer/dryer , and original hardwood flooring . The exterior of the property features a large wrap around front porch and a recently landscaped front and side yard . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $725,000 <p> INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY for this UNIQUE property in the heart of the Fan ! Steps away from Sticky Rice and other classic Fan restaurants and shops ! This property is actually TWO PARCELS deeded together -- the main house at 1 N. Stafford and a CARRIAGE HOUSE/STUDIO located at 2330 W. Main St. SOLID RENTAL HISTORY on both units , OR live in the home and rent the carriage house ! It 's TWO FOR ONE ! This 1,374 sq ft classic brick Fan row home features a spacious living room , dining area and kitchen on the first floor , and three bedrooms ( one is a trunk room being used as a spacious walk-in closet and dressing room ) and full bath ( with custom glass tile flooring ) upstairs . Wood floors , high ceilings -- ALL THE THINGS ! Brand new upper deck ! The carriage house/studio apartment provides an additional 364 square feet and is perfect for a home office , guest house , Air BnB , full time rental or studio space . There is a shared courtyard between the house and carriage house , with a locked gate for outdoor entertaining at its best . **This property is one deed with two separate tax parcels , two mailing addresses ( 1 N. Stafford and 2330 W. Main St ) and separate utilities . ( tax ID #W0001038031 main house and #W0001038030 studio ) . Truly an amazing opportunity and a must see ! <h> 6 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $325,000 <p> Step into a piece of history revitalized for modern living with this meticulously renovated historic home , transformed into a thriving PadSplit residence in 2022 . Nestled in a prime location along a busline with friendly neighbors and close proximity to parks and grocery stores , this property combines timeless charm with practicality . Boasting 6 bedrooms of varying sizes , each equipped with smart locks for secure and convenient access , it currently generates a robust net monthly income exceeding $3,000 . Two full bathrooms , built with durable roofing materials , cater to communal living needs , complemented by a communal outdoor patio . Updated with a new roof in 2015 and essential HVAC , electrical , and plumbing upgrades in 2015/2016 , the property ensures minimal maintenance and longevity . Originally intended for student rentals , it has achieved remarkable occupancy rates with only 6 turnovers in its inaugural year , offering stability with tenants able to give one week 's notice to vacate . Beyond its current use as a PadSplit , the property offers flexibility as it can also function as a traditional single-family residence , with the PadSplit lease terminable upon one month 's notice . Detailed financials and lease agreements are available upon request , making this an ideal investment opportunity or comfortable residence with income potential in a sought-after locale. <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $1,500,000 <p> Step into a piece of history with this charming Dutch Tudor-style home built in 1929 , nestled in the heart of historic City Point with a waterfront view where the Appomattox and James Rivers converge . This spacious 5-bedroom , 3.5-bath home boasts 4,075 square feet of living space and is set on a generous 2.92-acre lot , offering both privacy and ample room for outdoor activities . The home 's architectural integrity is beautifully preserved , showcasing intricate wood and brickwork details that echo its storied past . With a large 4-car garage , there 's plenty of space for vehicles and storage . Designed with entertaining in mind , this home provides the perfect backdrop for hosting family and friends . The expansive layout and scenic surroundings make it ideal for gatherings , while its prime location means you 're just 30 minutes from Richmond and 45 minutes from Williamsburg . If you 're looking for a home that combines historic charm with modern conveniences and is perfect for enjoying river views and outdoor activities , 701 Appomattox St is the perfect fit for you . Do n't miss this opportunity to own a unique piece of Hopewell 's history ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $1,149,950 <p> Welcome to the historic residence at 2018 Princess Anne Avenue ! Built in the early 20th century , this was the last home constructed on Princess Anne Avenue . It is a historically registered place citywide , statewide , and nationwide . There have been modernizations to the kitchen , bathrooms , and rooftop deck . The home has been lovingly maintained and kept in excellent condition by homeowner . The property exudes distinct character traits distinguishing it from other homes in the Union Hill and Church Hill area . You 'll have access to 4 different outdoor spaces including a full front covered porch with ample room to sit privately or host company , an outdoor balcony from the primary bedroom overlooking Jefferson Park , a fenced back patio , and a rooftop deck for you and your guests leisure time . The home possesses 9 ft+. ceilings on each of the 3 floors . The entire 3rd floor could be used as an optional income unit or in-law suite featuring , living rm , 2 bedrooms , 1 full bath , kitchen w/fridge , multiple room arrangement plans and access to rooftop deck . <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $519,900 <p> Featuring newly refinished hardwood floors , a detached garage , and fresh paint throughout this gorgeous property is ready to welcome you home ! You 'll love parking in your own private garage then make your way up the recently re-stained porch , through the back door , and into the mudroom - the perfect space to kick off your shoes and hang your coat at the end of the day . Continue into the eat-in kitchen with stainless appliances and mobile island with breakfast bar . Open to the kitchen is a light and bright dining room featuring a new modern light fixture and an abundance of natural light ! Continue into the living room that boasts beautiful French doors , a cozy stone fireplace , and a new modern light fixture making this the perfect place to entertain guests . Also on the first floor is a half bathroom with updated fixture and mirror . Upstairs you will find four sizable bedrooms and a full bathroom with updated vanity , light fixture , and mirror ! This property also features a partially finished basement with a shower . Enjoy convenient access to Byrd and Maymont Park , as well as local dining and shopping . Do n't miss out on owning this gorgeous property in the desirable Byrd Park area . Schedule your showing today ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $850,000 <p> Steeped in history and fully updated for modern living , this stunning 1890 Churchill home offers the perfect blend of preserved charm and contemporary luxury . Fully renovated to the studs in 2018 , updates include a new TPO and shingled roof , 2-zone HVAC , tankless water heater , plumbing , and electrical -- plus brand-new wood siding in 2024 . Offering 4 spacious bedrooms and 3.5 baths , this home features two primary suites -- one on each floor -- each with private porches . The second-floor suite boasts a cozy wood-burning stove , multiple closets , a spa-like en-suite bath with dual vanity , soaking tub , and glass shower , plus a private study with wet bar and balcony access . The chef 's kitchen is a true highlight with a farmhouse sink , gas cooking , and breakfast bar , all open to a light-filled living space with soaring coffered ceilings and 6 total fireplaces . Outdoors , enjoy a full front porch , a stamped concrete patio , front and side gardens , and a private fenced rear . Off-street parking completes the package . This is your chance to own a beautifully restored historic gem close to some of the city 's best restaurants and sites ! <h> 4 Bedroom Home in Richmond - $599,999 <p> Rare opportunity for investors or owner-occupants to own a completely renovated duplex with a garage on tree-lined Leonard Parkway in the desirable Near West End . Each unit features a spacious living room , dining room , kitchen with private porch access , two bedrooms , one bathroom , and in-unit washer/dryer . The head-to-toe renovation includes a new roof , kitchens , bathrooms , two heat pumps , ductwork , Pella windows , two water heaters , main water line , washers/dryers , gutters , crawl space insulation and hatch , interior and exterior paint , doors , hardware , upgraded plumbing and electrical , and more ! There is a full front porch with a swing and two new large , covered rear porches that lead to the garden enclosed by a new privacy fence . Additionally , there is a divided 2-car garage with individual pedestrian doors , plus separate utilities for each unit . Ideal for generating rental income or living in one unit while renting out the other . Completely turnkey and ready to go -- this is an exceptional opportunity in a prime location ! <h> 5 Bedroom Home in Hopewell - $220,000 <p> Are you looking for your next investment property ? Come check out this Duplex in Hopewell ! There is a 3rd unit at this property inside the garage . This property has had lots of renovations and with some small finishing touches you could turn this into 3 units with good rental returns ! Upstairs has all new windows except for 1 . Roof is brand new ! All units have their own entrance . 1 car garage as well ! Lots of extra lot space in the rear of property with a fully fenced in lot ! There is lots of potential with this property ! All personal property to include carports , storage containers etc. do not convey but are negotiable . <p> Among them included Latitude Seafood Co. , which received a $68,000 bill on an $800 late fee ; Philly Vegan , which received a $37,000 bill in uncollected taxes ; and Beauvine Burger Concept , which received a single bill for $424,000 . <p> The city gave itself a July 1 deadline . However , many restaurant owners are still waiting for answers . <p> As meals tax payments are self-reported , restaurants are responsible for turning in their reporting to the city each month . Restaurants are required to collect a meals tax of 7.5% on every diner 's bill . <p> Samuel Veney is the co-owner of Philly Vegan , a Richmond restaurant that received a $37,000 bill in uncollected taxes . <p> Mike Kropf , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Likewise , the city does not send out monthly bills . Instead , it issues yearly bills for any unpaid taxes . It also does not have a mechanism in place to inform owners if they are behind . <p> Late payments are applied a 10% penalty and another 10% for each year the penalty goes unpaid , which is how these bills balloon over time . <p> Mayor Levar Stoney addresses the meals tax controversy during a news conference at City Hall in August . <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Chief Administrative Officer Lincoln Saunders cited that many of the problems associated with its meals tax collection arose from its outdated technology system . A new and improved online system called RVAPay -- in which restaurants and businesses will be able to look up their accounts , balances and payments -- is in the works but is not yet online . The city previously said it would go live at the end of 2024 . <p> Many restaurants received settlements from the city . Elizabeth Sexton , owner of Smokh RVA BBQ , received a refund , roughly $5,000 , in 42 separate checks . <p> The Times-Dispatch previously requested through the Freedom of Information Act a list of restaurants that saw their bills reconciled , but the request was denied due to " taxpayer privacy . " <p> Mike Byrne , director of the Richmond Restaurant Association , speaks during a news conference at The Tobacco Company Restaurant in Shockoe Slip on Jan. 31 . Restaurant owners gathered to demand the city make changes to its flawed collection of meals taxes . <h> RVA 100 : 100 people , places , things that you should know about Richmond <h> RVA 100 : The Marlboro sign <p> Head south from downtown Richmond on Interstate 95 and , yes , that big concrete office building does look like a pack of cigarettes with a few butts sticking out . <p> No surprise , because that low-lying factory just behind it is Altria Group 's Richmond Manufacturing Center , where the nation 's No. 1 cigarette brand , Marlboro , is made . <p> Some 1,700 Richmonders make some 76 billion cigarettes a year there . That 's way down from the days when the plant was built in 1973 : 4 of 10 Americans smoked then ; now it 's just a bit more than 1 in 10 . <p> Altria , meanwhile , is looking at other tobacco products that it feels will not be as dangerous to use -- one , a nicotine pouch , is already made in Richmond . <p> -- Dave Ress <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : The Markel Building <p> No , that 's not a flying saucer that landed just west of Willow Lawn shopping center . It 's the Markel Building , commissioned in 1962 by the specialty insurer Markel and designed by Richmond architect Haigh Jamgochian . <p> That crinkly looking metal wrapping each floor is a 500-plus foot long chunk of aluminum and Jamgochian , reportedly inspired by a foil-wrapped baked potato , wielded the sledgehammer that created that distinctive texture . <p> It 's been deemed one of the 10 ugliest buildings in the world , but rather like Jamgochian ( who only managed to get one other design built ) and Markel -- which got its start insuring jitneys and is now a $55 billion insurance and investment powerhouse that long ago moved its headquarters to suburban Glen Allen -- it 's uniquely Richmond . <p> --Dave Ress <p> Phil Riggan <h> RVA 100 : Justin Verlander <p> Before racking up nine All-Star selections , a Rookie of the Year award , three Cy Youngs , two World Series rings , two ERA titles and an MVP , Justin Verlander pitched for Goochland High School . <p> He played varsity all four years with the Bulldogs . After graduating from Goochland , the longtime Manakin-Sabot resident starred at Old Dominion in Norfolk , setting both school and Colonial Athletic Association career records for strikeouts . <p> Verlander was selected second overall by the Tigers in the 2004 MLB draft , leading Detroit to the American League pennant in 2006 and 2012 . After nearly 12 full seasons in the Motor City , he was traded to Houston in 2017 . He went on to win his first of two World Series that season . <p> Along with earning his third Cy Young Award in 2022 , Verlander and the Astros won their second World Series together . <p> The New York Mets acquired Verlander in free agency prior to the 2023 season , but he was traded back to Houston that same season . <p> There was a need for a rail connection following the Civil War , which led to a single-track Belt Line that was a part of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad . <p> In 1919 , the double-track bridge structure was built over top of the James and has since served as an iconic sight for locals and travelers . <p> -- Jackson Didlake <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Murals <p> Richmond 's more than 100 murals range from thought-provoking to statement-making to just plain odd . <p> One of the first , a beauty queen on the wall of Sidewalk Cafe on West Main Street , was painted by Ed Trask in the 1990s . Then in 2012 , mural painting exploded here after the first RVA Street Art Festival and the Richmond Mural Project , which led to the design of 100 murals in five years . <p> They have also drawn pushback as the city became " muralized . " <p> Richmond 's murals rose hand in hand with the city 's breweries , restaurants and social media . They appear in tourism videos , help define neighborhoods and drive economic development . Most are on private buildings , paid for by the owner . Near VCU , a mural of a woman crouched in a glass jar is among the most famous . <p> This spring , Richmond was ranked the second best city in the U.S. for public art by the USAToday Best List . <p> --Eric Kolenich <p> DANIEL SANGJIB MIN , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : The Jefferson Hotel <p> The historic Jefferson Hotel has welcomed thousands of visitors in its nearly 130 years of operations , including the likes of U.S. presidents , writers and celebrities such as the Rolling Stones , Dolly Parton and Elvis Presley . <p> Famous actor and dancer Bill " Bojangles " Robinson was allegedly a waiter at The Jefferson Hotel in the early 1900s . <p> The 166-room luxury hotel , which was the brainchild of famous Richmonder and tobacco baron Lewis Ginter , opened its doors in 1895 . <p> Its classic Spanish Baroque style , designed by one of the most notable New York architects , sets it apart from others in the city and state . It has been the backdrop for numerous movies , including the 1981 film " My Dinner with Andr ? . " <p> In 1901 , a wire fire destroyed three-fifths of the hotel , and the marble statue of Thomas Jefferson sculpted by Edward Valentine was almost destroyed . <p> It also used to house full-size alligators in its marble pools in the front lobby . While the alligators are long gone , their legacy remains with bronze alligator motifs throughout the hotel . <p> The Jefferson remains a popular Richmond destination to celebrate holidays and dining with Christmas , Easter and Mother 's Day brunch selling out months in advance . <p> -- Em Holter <p> Dean Hoffmeyer <h> RVA 100 : Richmond Kickers <p> Established in 1993 , the Richmond Kickers are the longest continuously run professional soccer club in the country and a cornerstone of RVA 's sports scene . <p> The Kickers compete at historic City Stadium and annually place among the highest attendance numbers in USL League One , with an average of roughly 4,000 fans in a stadium situated to hold 6,000 for home games . <p> The club has two primary groups of supporters -- the River City Red Army and Scuffletown Social Club -- traditionally filling Section O in the southwest corner of the stadium , from whence red smoke drifts and drums emanate . <p> The Kickers in 2018 were purchased by majority owners 22 Holdings , LLC , led by CEO and former player Rob Ukrop , from Richmond Kickers Youth Soccer Club , which maintains a minority stake in the club . <p> -- Zach Joachim <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Maymont <p> One of Richmond 's most popular and picturesque spots is Maymont , a Victorian estate set on 100 rolling acres above the James River . Maymont serves as a park , museum , environmental center and more . <p> Maymont was created in the Gilded Age by James and Sallie Dooley , who lived there from 1893 until 1925 . In their will , the Dooleys left their estate to the city of Richmond to use as a museum and public park . <p> Maymont began showing signs of severe disrepair around the late ' 60s and early ' 70s . In 1975 , the nonprofit Maymont Foundation was established to partner with the city and raise funds for annual expenses and capital improvements . <p> Maymont now offers a public park to Richmond including Japanese Gardens , Italian Gardens and an arboretum . The Maymont Mansion now serves as a museum with 33 rooms that the Dooleys decorated with furnishings from around the world , including the famous Swan Bed . <p> Maymont also offers the Robins Nature Center , which houses river otters , a 20-foot waterfall , aquariums , games and educational exhibits related to life along the James . The Maymont Farm is also home to goats , pigs and other animals for hands-on fun for children and adults . <p> Last year , roughly 800,000 visitors enjoyed Maymont 's exhibits , programming and parks . With a mix of history and modern-day attractions , Maymont is one of the most popular places in Richmond . <p> -- Savannah Reger <p> Jared Campbell <h> RVA 100 : Libby Hill <p> Libby Hill Park is one of three original parks in Richmond , located in Church Hill . The seven-acre park was designed by city engineer Wilfred Cutshaw . <p> Libby Hill is often known as for " The View that Named Richmond , " as the view of the James River closely resembles the view of Richmond on the Thames in England . <p> Originally called Marshall Square , the park became known as Libby Hill Park , named after prominent landowner Luther Libby 's house nearby . <p> Historically , the park was created to give Richmonders the chance to get healthy air in the 1850s , according to the Cultural Landscape Foundation . <p> Libby Hill Park has a great view of the city , as it 's located on a hill and also has an ornamental fountain . In 1969 , it became a national historic landmark , along with St. John 's Church . It was previously home to the Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Memorial statue , which was removed in 2022 . <p> Libby Hill Park has views of the James River , the city skyline and several districts . It is a popular place for gatherings and events , making it a beautiful icon of Richmond . <p> -- Savannah Reger <p> AKASH PAMARTHY , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Doug Wilder <p> As we say in the news biz , L. Douglas Wilder has been good copy for more than five decades . <p> Wilder rose from Richmond 's segregated Church Hill to become the nation 's first elected Black governor in 1990 . In 2005 , he became Richmond 's first popularly elected mayor in 56 years . <p> After receiving a Bronze Star for his service in Korea , Wilder built a successful law practice before he achieved a series of historic political firsts . In 1969 , he became Virginia 's first African American state senator since 1890 . <p> With his 1985 election as lieutenant governor , he became the first African American elected statewide in the South since Reconstruction . <p> In January 1990 , after U.S. Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr . swore him in as governor , Wilder declared : " I am a son of Virginia . " <p> At 93 , Wilder continues to make news , often taking issue with Virginia Commonwealth University President Michael Rao and Gov . Glenn Youngkin on his " Wilder Visions " blog . <h> RVA 100 : Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond <p> It 's the headquarters of the Fifth District of the Federal Reserve , which is responsible for the banking system in Maryland , North Carolina , South Carolina , most of West Virginia and Washington , D.C. <p> The bank has a broad list of functions that include providing money to commercial banks and selling Treasury bonds . <p> When the bank moved from its building on North Ninth Street to the current location in 1978 , a small army of security escorted three specially-designed tractor-trailers through the streets of Richmond in the middle of the night as they moved $6 billion worth of securities -- including $300 million in cash , $1 million in coins and more than $700 million in miscellaneous paper such as canceled currency . <p> Security included 30 Secret Service agents in bulletproof vests , heavily armed SWAT teams in station wagons in front of and behind each tractor trailer , 100 Richmond policemen blocking intersections throughout downtown , sharpshooters perched on rooftops and a helicopter overlooking the whole scene . <p> The current building at 701 E. Byrd St. was designed by architect Minoru Yamasaki , who also designed the former World Trade Center in Manhattan . It is the city 's fourth-tallest building at 393 feet . <p> -- Paul Whelan <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , Times-Dispatch <h> RVA 100 : The Flying Squirrels <p> Professional baseball was played for generations in Richmond before the Flying Squirrels soared into town for the 2010 season . Nothing before was comparable in name , entertainment presentation , or impact . <p> With a heavy accent on the fans ' game experience , the Double-A franchise affiliated with the San Francisco Giants became a highly popular attraction for those who are serious fans of the sport , and those who enjoy a lively atmosphere with baseball as background . <p> The Flying Squirrels instantly became one of the leading draws in the minor leagues , regularly averaging more than 6,000 fans and uplifting the community 12 months a year with coat drives , reading programs , youth-league field renovations , and other contributions . <p> MARK GORMUS , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Richmond Coliseum <p> For nearly 50 years , the Richmond Coliseum at 601 E. Leigh St. stood as the city 's premier venue for sports , concerts and political rallies . <p> After opening its doors in 1971 , the Coliseum served as the home of the VCU men 's basketball team for nearly 30 years and a part-time home for the ABA 's Virginia Squires until the league folded . <p> Perhaps the most dramatic Coliseum moment occurred during the 1994 Women 's NCAA Division I Basketball Championship , when North Carolina 's Charlotte Smith hit a buzzer-beating 3-pointer to defeat Louisiana Tech by a point . <p> Concerts at the Coliseum featured such legends as Aretha Franklin , Elvis , Prince , The Jackson 5 , Van Halen , B.B. King , Bruce Springsteen and Cher . <p> The Coliseum 's final event was a Harlem Globetrotters show on Dec. 29 , 2018 , with the arena officially closing a couple of months later . <h> RVA 100 : Hollywood Cemetery <p> Nestled alongside the rapids of the James River , Hollywood Cemetery is host to the graves of many noteworthy Virginians . <p> Former presidents James Monroe and John Tyler ; Confederate President Jefferson Davis ; former Gov . Lee Fitzhugh ; and Confederate generals J.E.B. Stuart and George Pickett are all buried within the cemetery grounds . The Monument to Confederate War Dead -- a 90-foot pyramid constructed of crudely hewn James River granite -- pays tribute to the thousands of enlisted Confederate soldiers also buried at the site . <p> In addition to its historical significance , Hollywood Cemetery is an excellent place to take an evening walk to enjoy autumn foliage and local wildlife , or to enjoy a morning sunrise over Belle Isle . <p> -- Samuel B. Parker <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Agecroft Hall <p> Richmonders can get a taste of Renaissance-era England at Agecroft Hall . <p> The Tudor-style manor , with exposed timber and a stone-style roof , was built in the late 1400s or early 1500s in Lancashire , England . <p> By the 20th century , it had fallen into disrepair . So Richmonder Thomas C. Williams Jr . bought it , had it disassembled and shipped to Richmond , where it was remodeled and rebuilt at 4305 Sulgrave Road in the Windsor Farms neighborhood , overlooking the James River . <p> Work finished in 1928 , but Williams died a year later . The house opened to the public in 1969 . <p> Visit the sunken garden , the trails and museum at 4305 Sulgrave Road . Adult tickets are $12 . Or bring a tailgate chair , a picnic basket full of food and catch a Shakespearean play on the lawn during the Richmond Shakespeare Festival . <p> Clement Britt <h> RVA 100 : Arthur Ashe Jr . <p> A strong case can be made that Arthur Ashe Jr . is the premier athlete from the Richmond area . <p> He was an esteemed international figure in the sporting world for an extended period , becoming the first Black man to win Wimbledon ( 1975 ) , the U.S. Open ( 1968 ) and the Australian Open ( 1970 ) . He captured dozens of other professional tournament titles . <p> But Ashe , an alumnus of Maggie L Walker High School , was also an author and humanitarian . Arthur Ashe Stadium is the New York-based home of the U.S. Open , a multipurpose arena on Richmond 's Arthur Ashe Boulevard also bears his name , and a Monument Avenue statue honors him . <p> STAFF PHOTO <h> RVA 100 : Bill 's Barbecue <p> For more than 80 years , Bill 's Barbecue was an independent , Virginia barbecue chain that served vinegar-based pork barbecue sandwiches , homemade chocolate pies and freshly squeezed limeade . <p> In 2005 , Rhoda Elliott , the company 's president and daughter of Bill 's longtime owner and operator , the late W.S. Richardson Sr. , said " small independents are a dying breed . " <p> " We ought to be put on the endangered-species list . It is hard to fight the big corporations . They have so many resources that the small independents do n't have . " <p> She was right . In December 2012 , the last three Richmond locations closed . Lines were 30 to 50 people deep as longtime customers waited for just one more limeade . <p> DEAN HOFFMEYER , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Byrd Theatre <p> The historic Byrd Theatre has been a film spot in Carytown for nearly a century . <p> The venue , known as " Richmond 's Movie Palace , " opened in 1928 when silent films were the popular entertainment . It was named after William Byrd II , the founder of Richmond . <p> The theater has 1,392 seats -- 916 on the main level and 476 in the balconies . Hanging from the ceiling is a giant chandelier that features 500 colored lights that illuminate 5,000 crystals . It also has an organ , the Mighty Wurlitzer , which is still played ahead of shows on Saturdays . <p> In 1977 , it was added to the Virginia Landmarks Register . The Byrd Theatre Foundation , a nonprofit , purchased the Byrd in 2007 and has since put the building under many renovations . <p> The Byrd 's programming has changed over the years from offering second-run films to offering a mix of classic movies and film festivals . <p> -- Jackson Didlake <h> RVA 100 : Capital One <p> The Capital One credit card in your wallet is a modern piece of Richmond history , but also helps pay for the region 's current economic vitality . <p> Capital One is the offspring of Richmond 's once-dominant banking industry , born in 1994 as the spinoff of Signet Banking Corp. , itself the child of Bank of Virginia . <p> But the global financial services giant is also the Richmond region 's largest private employer , with a workforce of 13,000 housed primarily in its operations center on a sprawling West Creek campus in Goochland County , with offices in Chesterfield and Henrico counties . <p> Capital One is still led by one of its founders , Richard Fairbank , chairman and CEO of a company now headquartered in an office tower that overlooks the Capital Beltway at Tysons Corner in McLean . <p> -- Michael Martz <p> Times-Dispatch <h> RVA 100 : The Carillon <p> " What is that ? " <p> For those new to Richmond , the Virginia War Memorial Carillon rises like a distant beacon above its leafy Byrd Park neighborhood . <p> At home , the Carillon is a beloved landmark that stands in homage to 3,700 Virginians who died in World War I as part of the Allied Expeditionary Forces . Their names are not yet listed in stone but will be next year with the completion of a three-stage restoration of the state-owned historic landmark . <p> The 240-foot tower rose from a civic initiative that began a week after the Armistice ended the war on Nov. 11 , 1918 , and culminated in the memorial 's dedication in a public celebration attended by 15,000 people on Oct. 15 , 1932 . Now , the Carillon is poised for rededication with the same lofty goal of remembering the war dead . <p> -- Michael Martz <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Church Hill <p> In 1775 , Patrick Henry delivered his famous " Give Me Liberty , or Give Me Death ! " speech at St. John 's Church in Church Hill , laying the groundwork for the area 's historic significance . <p> Founded in 1737 , Church Hill is home to Richmond 's first church and is the city 's oldest surviving neighborhood . <p> In 1925 , a train tunnel built during Reconstruction collapsed under Church Hill , killing three or four people . Former Gov . Doug Wilder was born and raised in Church Hill . <p> Church Hill has also experienced a significant demographic shift . In the late 1950s , the neighborhood experienced decline and subsequent white flight due to development and housing policies . <p> In the 1980s , the Historic Richmond Foundation began purchasing homes to resell to private homeowners for restoration . In 1997 , the Church Hill Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places . <p> In recent years , Church Hill has become one of Richmond 's most desirable neighborhoods with critically acclaimed restaurants such as The Roosevelt , ample parks and historic homes . Increased interest in Church Hill has translated into rising home prices with the median home price around $440,000 , pushing out longtime residents who are most often people of color . <p> -- Savannah Reger <p> Phil Riggan <h> RVA 100 : Jackson Ward <p> For those who want to understand the complex history of Richmond , Jackson Ward is ground zero . <p> In the 1920s , Jackson Ward -- bounded by north Belvidere and Third and East Broad streets and Interstate 95 -- made a name for itself as a Black Wall Street . Since then , it has suffered from years of segregationist policy decisions , chief among them the 1954 decision to route a section of I-95 through the heart of the neighborhood . <p> Some 1,000 homes were removed to fit the highway , which now cuts the neighborhood in half , according to historian Benjamin Campbell . <p> The historically Black neighborhood sits on the northwest corner of Richmond 's bustling downtown . Its key landmarks include a colorful section of Broad Street , the Maggie L. Walker Memorial Plaza , a small business triangle dedicated to the civil rights leader ; the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church ; and the distinct Leigh Street Armory , which is now the Black History Museum &amp; Cultural Center of Virginia . <p> -- Luca Powell <p> Daniel Sangjib Min , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : The James River <p> At Richmond , Virginia 's backbone waterway passes its final falls and rapids to begin its more stately path to the Chesapeake Bay . You can spot bald eagles and ospreys circling overhead ; herons stalk the shore . <p> Dropping 105 feet in elevation as it flows through Richmond , the river 's passage over rocks and dams creates class I , II , III and IV rapids -- the last rated difficult because of their power , with standing waves ; souse holes ; and boiling eddies . <h> RVA 100 : City Stadium <p> Whether it was football or f ? tbol , City Stadium has hosted its fair share of sporting events over the years . <p> The stadium was built in 1929 and is currently used at a capacity of 6,000 for the Richmond Kickers of USL League One and the Richmond Ivy of USL W League . Its full capacity sits at roughly 22,000 . <p> The University of Richmond played football there up until 2009 , and the venue adopted the name UR Stadium in 1983 until 2010 after the Spiders moved . <p> The stadium has also played host to a couple of Richmond-based minor league football teams in addition to a couple of other USL-based soccer teams . Additionally , it was previously the host of the NCAA Division I Men 's Soccer Tournament from 1995 to 1998 . <p> JAMES H. WALLACE , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Chimborazo Park <p> Chimborazo Park is laden with city history and lore while also letting park-goers experience all of Richmond . <p> Sitting on a bluff overlooking the James River , Chimborazo Park has 180-degree views showing the river and the Richmond skyline . <p> The modern park , which is home to such landmarks as a miniature replica Statue of Liberty and the Chimborazo Medical Museum , holds the Richmond National Battlefield Park headquarters . <p> The park in the 3200 block of East Broad Street was established in 1874 and carries the name of a volcano in Ecuador . During the Civil War , it was home to one of the world 's largest military hospitals with over 75,000 patients passing through its doors during the conflict . <p> After the war , the site was turned into a refugee camp for former slaves managed by the Freedmen 's Bureau . It was eventually purchased by Richmond 's Board of Aldermen for $35,000 to make way for the park . <p> -- Sean Jones <p> JOE MAHONEY , TIMES-DISPATCH <h> RVA 100 : Carytown <p> When in search of a fun day of shopping , dining and entertainment , Carytown is the hub for indie boutiques , flavorful food spots and more to satisfy a local 's or visitor 's experience . <p> Carytown was officially established in 1938 , when the Cary Court shopping area opened as Richmond 's first strip mall . Cary Street , and the neighborhood of Carytown , got its name from Colonel Archibald Cary , an influential politician and landowner who lived on Ampthill Plantation in Chesterfield in the 1700s . On the plantation 's 14,000 acres , Cary owned hundreds of slaves , a ropery , a flour mill and an iron forge . <p> Now a bohemian district nestled in the heart of Richmond , Carytown is a " mile of style " offering various shopping , dining and entertainment venues , with a hyperfocus on small , locally owned businesses . <p> Featuring unique murals that brighten the buildings and alleyways throughout the district 's stretch of West Cary Street , Carytown is also home to the historic Byrd Theatre , a popular cinema named after the founder of the city and affectionately known as " Richmond 's Movie Palace . " <p> A 25-foot-tall Carytown sign is headed to the western entrance of the neighborhood . The diamond-like shaped sign will include green and gold coloring and read " Carytown , Richmond , Va. , Est. 1938 . " <p> -- Kylee Toland <p> AKASH PAMARTHY , TIMES- DISPATCH <h> Top stories of 2024 : A tumultuous political year sees Trump return <p> This was one of the more tumultuous years in politics in a long time -- a former president won a White House reengagement , a current president 's on-again-off-again campaign collapsed , and Virginians sent some new faces to the U.S. Capitol . <p> Vice President Kamala Harris lost the presidential contest to former President Donald Trump , but Democrats carried Virginia . <p> Associated Press <p> Richmond voters elected former state Commissioner of Social Services Danny Avula as the city 's next mayor . A pediatrician who led Virginia 's COVID-19 vaccination push , Avula won outright in a five-way race . <p> Avula <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Sen. Tim Kaine , D-Va. , won a third term . <p> Sen. Tim Kaine , D-Va. , who won a third term , speaks at an election night party at the Hippodrome Theater in Richmond . <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> The state 's Congressional delegation remained at six Democrats and five Republicans , though there will be three new members of Congress next year . <p> State Sen. John McGuire , R-Goochland , unseated Rep. Bob Good , R-5th , in a June primary . <p> Paige Dingler , News &amp; Advance <p> State Sen. John McGuire , R-Goochland , will represent the 5th District , which covers a swath of the Piedmont , from Goochland and Louisa County south to the state line . McGuire ousted Rep. Bob Good , R-5th , in a GOP primary . <p> Vindman <p> Vindman campaign <p> Eugene Vindman , a retired Army officer whose twin brother testified against Trump during his first impeachment trial , will represent the Prince William County-anchored 7th District in Northern Virginia . Vindman succeeds Rep. Abigail Spanberger , D-7th , who is leaving Congress to run for governor next year . <p> Subramanyam <p> Courtesy of Suhas Subramanyam <p> Former state Sen. Suhas Subramanyam , D-Loudoun , will represent the 10th District in Northern Virginia . He succeeds Rep. Jennifer Wexton , who is retiring after a diagnosis that she has a severe neurological disease . <p> Democrats had hoped to flip the 2nd District in Hampton Roads , while Republicans wanted to take the 7th in Northern Virginia . Neither effort succeeded . <p> President Joe Biden 's disastrous performance in a June debate with Trump put his campaign on the skids , and he withdrew from the race in July . <p> While the Democratic Party quickly coalesced around Harris , her victory in Virginia was narrower , at 5.8 percentage points , than Biden 's 10-point win over Trump in Virginia in 2020 . Her total was some 78,173 votes less than Biden 's . Trump picked up an additional 112,655 Virginia votes . <h> Other contests <p> Also in Richmond : School Board member Kenya Gibson defeated incumbent Ann-Frances Lambert to represent the 3rd District on City Council . Andrew Breton and Sarah M.A. Abubaker won the open seats for the 1st and 4th districts . <p> On the Richmond School Board , five of the nine members will be new : Matt Percival for the 1st District ; Katie Ricard , who unseated incumbent Mariah White for the 2nd ; Ali Faruk , who succeeds Gibson in the 3rd ; Wesley Hedgepeth , who topped recently appointed incumbent Garrett Sawyer in the 4th ; and Emmett Jafari in the 8th . <p> In Petersburg , 81.6% of voters said they want a casino . Richmond voters had rejected a casino in 2021 and in 2023 . <h> From the archives : President-elect Donald Trump 's Virginia visits <p> Former President Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at the Greater Richmond Convention Center on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . <p> MIKE KROPF , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Former President Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at the Greater Richmond Convention Center on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . <p> MIKE KROPF <p> Former President Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at the Greater Richmond Convention Center on Saturday , March 2 , 2024 . <p> MIKE KROPF <p> A customer picks up a beanie in support of presidential candidate Trump outside the Greater Richmond Convention Center prior Trump 's rally in Richmond , Va . March 2 . <p> President Donald Trump gave a thumbs-up Thursday as he left the hangar deck of the Gerald R. Ford warship , which is under construction at Newport News Shipbuilding . <p> ALEXA WELCH EDLUND/Times-Dispatch <p> President Donald Trump stands next to Capt . Richard McCormack , commander of the USS Gerald R. Ford , as they leave the hangar deck after the president spoke aboard the aircraft carrier at Newport News Shipbuilding Thursday , March 2 , 2017 . <h> Top stories of 2024 : Hamas attack , Gaza war effects felt in Richmond <p> Approximately 1,200 people were killed and another 250 were taken hostage during the attacks , which had ripple effects that carried over into 2024 . <p> One of the hostages was Hersh Goldberg-Polin , 23 , a former Richmond resident . <p> Goldberg-Polin 's parents , Rachel Goldberg and Jon Polin , publicly called for their son and the other hostages to be released , meeting with President Joe Biden and Pope Francis and speaking at the Democratic National Convention . <p> As a throng of reporters took their seats amid UVa athletics brass and a host of current and former Cavaliers basketball players and coaches , the weight of the moment was palpable . They had gathered for Tony Bennett 's retirement news conference in the dining hall of John Paul Jones Arena . <p> And as Bennett , alongside UVa director of athletics Carla Williams , prepared to address the media the following day , the nationwide conversation surrounding the evolving landscape of college athletics hovered over the proceedings . <p> " The game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " Bennett said as he fought back tears . " And there needs to be change . " <p> So his retirement proved not only one of Virginia 's top stories of 2024 , but one of the most notable sports narratives on a national scale -- a barometer of the growing unease surrounding a college athletics landscape that many believe has spun wildly out of control amid the " wild west " of the transfer portal and name , image and likeness compensation . <p> If Bennett , one of the country 's most widely respected college hoops minds , does n't want to play ball anymore , something must truly be rotting at the core of the nation 's college athletics landscape . <p> During a news conference in the dining hall at John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville on Oct. 18 , UVa men 's basketball coach Tony Bennett announces his retirement in front of a crowd of UVa officials , current and former UVa players and others connected to the school . " The game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " Bennett said as he fought back tears . " And there needs to be change . " <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <p> Bennett said college sports are moving toward a " professional model " in which collective bargaining is essential . <p> He called for restrictions on the salary pool that programs can spend ; for increased transfer regulations ; and for limits on agent involvement with college athletes . <p> He added that he worries about the mental health of student-athletes in the modern landscape . <p> " It 's not fair to these guys ( his players ) and this institution that I love so much , to continue on when you know you 're not the right guy for the job , " Bennett said . <h> Scenes from Tony Bennett 's retirement press conference <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-9. jpg <p> From left to right , Pat Parkhill and Tony Bennett , University of Virginia Basketball Head Coach , chat after Bennett announces his retirement from coaching at John Paul Jones Arena during a press conference on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . <p> CAL CARY THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-7. jpg <p> During a news conference in the dining hall at John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville on Oct. 18 , UVa men 's basketball coach Tony Bennett announces his retirement in front of a crowd of UVa officials , current and former UVa players and others connected to the school . " The game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " Bennett said as he fought back tears . " And there needs to be change . " <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-8. jpg <p> Tony Bennett , University of Virginia Basketball Head Coach , shakes hands with Jim Ryan , UVa 's President , after Bennett announces his retirement from coaching at John Paul Jones Arena during a press conference on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-6. jpg <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-4. jpg <p> From left to right , University of Virginia President Jim Ryan and Rector Robert Hardie attend the retirement announcement of basketball coach Tony Bennett , Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 , at John Paul Jones Arena in Charlottesville . <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-3. jpg <p> Coach Tony Bennett gets emotional on Friday as he discusses his reasons for stepping down from UVa . <p> CAL CARY , THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-1. jpg <p> From left to right , Erich Bacher , University of Virginia Associate AD for Athletic Communications ; Tony Bennett , UVa Basketball Head Coach ; and Carla Williams , UVa Athletic Director , walk in the aisle at JPJ before Bennett announces his retirement from coaching during a press conference on Friday , Oct. 18 , 2024 . <p> CAL CARY THE DAILY PROGRESS <h> TonyBennettRetire ' 24-2. jpg <p> Virginia Director of Athletics Carla Williams , left , listens as head coach Tony Bennett announces his retirement . " ... the game and college athletics is not in a healthy spot , " he said . " And there needs to be change . I was equipped to do the job here the old way . " <h> HIDE VERTICAL GALLERY ASSET TITLES <p> CarMax Park , with a baseball seating capacity of approximately 10,000 and a 360-degree concourse , will replace The Diamond in 2026 , if the plan matures as expected . <p> The Diamond has been home to professional baseball in Richmond since 1985 . In addition to baseball , CarMax Park will host " large-scale events year-round , including concerts , festivals , and community gatherings , " according to CarMax and the Double-A Richmond Flying Squirrels . CarMax Park will be located adjacent to The Diamond on North Arthur Ashe Boulevard . <p> The Diamond has been home to professional baseball since 1985 , and 2025 is expected to be its final season before it is replaced by CarMax Park . <p> Throughout the final season at The Diamond next year , the Flying Squirrels plan to salute former Richmond players and teams . <p> The new stadium , projected to cost $110 million , is considered the anchor to a 68-acre , $2.4 billion development called the Diamond District . The Flying Squirrels will be tenants for a minimum of 30 years . For the first 10 years of the lease , they will pay $3.2 million a year , among the highest lease payments in minor league baseball . <p> Shayy Winn sings the national anthem on May 19 before a Richmond Flying Squirrels ' game against the Reading Fighting Phils . <p> NICOLAS GALINDO , TIMES- <p> DISPATCH <p> According to CarMax , " CarMax Park will be uniquely Richmond in its design , with nods to the city 's history blended with modern , state-of-the-art amenities . " <p> The Diamond , which cost $8 million to build , previously was home to the Richmond Braves , Atlanta 's Triple-A club , in town from 1966 to 2008 . Although The Diamond lacks modern amenities , the Flying Squirrels consistently have ranked among the top 20 in minor league attendance -- all levels -- since they arrived in Richmond for the 2010 season . <p> Ashley Pollard , mother of Amari Pollard , wipes away a tear during an interview about her eldest son , who was sentenced to 43 years in prison with 18 years suspended after pleading guilty to first-degree murder in the death of Huguenot High School graduate Shawn Jackson on June 6 , 2023 . <p> The Diamond , home to professional baseball in Richmond since 1985 , heads into its final season in 2025 . <p> Richmond Circuit Court Judge W. Reilly Marchant said the exemption that the School Board used to justify not releasing the report in response to public records requests mostly did not apply to the 32-page report . He ordered the board to release the report . <p> The report found Huguenot High School staff knew of threats against Shawn Jackson , the student who was fatally shot , and the school did not initiate a threat assessment as school system policy requires in such circumstances . <p> The report also found Jackson participated in the ceremony without the school principal 's authorization and without consideration of safety concerns that were known by several school staff members . <p> Police respond to the area around Monroe Park following the fatal shooting after Huguenot High School 's graduation ceremony on June 6 , 2023 . <p> MARGO WAGNER , TIMES-DISPATCH <p> Weeks after the release of the report , Amari Pollard , Jackson 's former classmate , pleaded guilty to first-degree murder and received a sentence of 43 years in prison with 18 years suspended . <p> The killer of Jackson 's stepfather , Renzo Smith , remains unidentified . Ballistics evidence ruled out Pollard as his killer . A forensic examiner found at least 30 bullet cartridge casings , most of which were not fired from Pollard 's gun . <p> Jackson 's mother , Tameeka Jackson-Smith , gave an emotional testimony on the opening day of the trial , saying that she watched her husband and only son die in a matter of minutes . <p> One year after the shooting , in June , The Times-Dispatch spoke with Jackson-Smith , who said she was still searching for answers -- who shot and killed her husband , and who struck her 9-year-old daughter with their car during the chaos outside the graduation ceremony ? <p> Henrico County Public Schools continue to hold graduation ceremonies after the shooting tragedy at Altria Theatre . Families at Thursday 's Highland Springs ceremony said they were determined to enjoy the day . <p> Richmond Public Schools administration seeks to boost partnership with police . It also proposes a new 15-part safety plan with a pilot program that would require some students to lock up their cellphones in pouches during the school day . <p> The Richmond City School Board voted Monday night to authorize a third-party investigation of the circumstances leading up to the June 6 shooting death of an 18-year-old graduating student and his father outside of the Altria Theater after the Huguenot High School graduation . <p> The Richmond School Board on Monday night rejected a proposal to release an external investigation into the June 6 shooting death of an 18-year-old graduating student and his father outside of the Altria Theater after Huguenot High School 's graduation ceremony . <p> Richmond Public Schools previously denied the newspaper 's public records request for the report , saying that it is subject to the attorney-client privilege exemption laid out in Virginia 's public record laws . <p> The Richmond Times-Dispatch sued the school board to force it to release the results of an investigation that it paid a law firm to conduct over the June 6 shooting outside the theater following the Huguenot High School graduation ceremony . <p> Amari Pollard , 20 , is the only suspect in the shooting at Huguenot High School 's graduation last summer , where two people were killed and five others were injured . Pollard is charged with first-degree murder in connection with Shawn Jackson 's death , and a separate felony offense for using a firearm . Pollard and Jackson had an " ongoing dispute , " but police have never explained why only Pollard has been charged despite the number of victims . The trial is set to last five days , with a verdict expected on March 1 . <p> The year featured startling national political twists , protests and crackdowns on Virginia 's college campuses , revelations about Richmond 's Office of Elections , and a star UVa coach 's sudden departure .
