<h> The world should not forget Afghanistan <p> Two Afghan women and an 18-month-old boy warm themselves while waiting for alms along the Kabul-Pul-e-Alam highway in eastern Afghanistan File : Kathy Gannon/AP <p> In a world where crises compete for attention , Afghanistan , once at the forefront of international aid and media coverage , now sits in the shadows . This year , the global focus has overwhelmingly been on victims of wars in Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine . <p> In 2024 , 23.7 million people -- more than half of the population -- required humanitarian assistance . Reports show that Afghanistan has the fourth largest number of people facing severe hunger and food shortages . About 12.4 million Afghans do not know where their next meal will come from , placing their country among the top " hunger hotspots " alongside Palestine , Yemen , Haiti and Syria . <p> About 80 percent of families live on less than $1 per day per person . Nearly four million children , pregnant women and breastfeeding mothers are malnourished . These already dire circumstances are exacerbated by frequent natural disasters from which communities do not have the capacity to recover . <p> Advertisement <p> Earthquakes , floods and landslides regularly devastate the country . For instance , in October 2023 , several magnitude 6.3 earthquakes struck Herat province , killing at least 2,000 people and injuring thousands more . More than 10,000 homes were destroyed and more than 20,000 severely damaged . At least 275,000 people were affected and were in need of assistance . <p> Despite some relief efforts in the immediate aftermath of the earthquakes , Herat remains devastated . Thousands of families are facing harsh weather for a second winter without permanent housing or proper access to water , food and sanitation . Destroyed schools have not been rebuilt . <p> Climate change has also affected Afghanistan . Despite contributing less than 0.1 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions , it ranks among the top 10 countries most vulnerable to climate change . Issues like drought and water scarcity are particularly severe . <p> In Kabul , water shortages have become so dire that UNICEF warned this year that the city could run out of groundwater by 2030 if immediate action is n't taken . The lack of water threatens not only urban populations but also rural communities where droughts have devastated local agriculture and livestock . <p> Afghanistan has also struggled with a weak economy . Unemployment has doubled since last year while the forced return of Afghan nationals from neighbouring Pakistan has cut off vital economic lifelines . Despite increasing hostility towards Afghans in neighbouring countries , emigration continues at a high pace . About eight million people have left the country since 2020 , according to the International Organization for Migration . <p> Advertisement <p> Many families consider leaving not only because of economic hardship but also because girls and women are denied education and employment . <p> These multiple crises are starkly visible in Kabul . Having no access to jobs , many women are forced to beg with their children in the streets while boys sell plastic bags , polish shoes and collect rubbish to earn money . Many labourers and wheelbarrow carriers have turned to begging , often waiting outside bakeries for scraps of bread . <p> Despite the severity of the situation , Afghanistan rarely makes international headlines . This silence is especially heartbreaking when considering the growing number of children who are forced to work even in the cold of winter to earn a meagre living . Their stories of suffering deserve to be heard and acknowledged . <p> However , Afghanistan needs more than attention . It requires meaningful action . The international community must recognise that the plight of the Afghan people is as urgent as those of the populations of Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine . A poverty and disaster-stricken Afghanistan abandoned by the international community can only be a source of instability in the region . <p> To break the cycle of hunger and poverty permanently , the international community , NGOs and donor countries must invest in sustainable , long-term solutions . These include building irrigation canals and dams , developing agriculture and livestock , improving infrastructure and creating jobs . Such efforts will help rural people remain in their communities , work their land and secure a better future for their children . Rural development would inevitably also help urban centres prosper . <p> Advertisement <p> Afghanistan 's silent suffering and its plight require urgent action . By addressing the root causes of its crises , the international community can restore hope and dignity to its people and work towards a prosperous world where no nation is left behind . <p> The views expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera 's editorial stance .
