<h> Share this : <p> 2024 kicked off with readers ' reactions to Republican contender Nikki Haley 's comments on the Civil War . Such debate 158 years after the war 's end foreshadowed the contentiousness of another eventful period in American politics . As we report the news of the day , you let us know what you make of it all , in letters sent by email or by stamp . Today , we look at the past year through your words on the Voice of the People page . <p> Bruce Farrell Rosen of San Francisco said Haley 's " vague " explanation disrespected Black Americans as well as the soldiers , " Black and white , " who fought to end slavery . " It undermines the work of perhaps our greatest president , Abraham Lincoln , the man who gave his life to hold the Union together , " he added . <p> Briarwood 's Joseph N. Manago decried the carnage of a then 3-month-old Gaza war being fought with American military aid . " More than 20,000 Palestinian Arab civilians , mostly women and children , have been murdered and 2 million physically displaced by the Israel Defense Forces , " Manago said , recalling the $168 billion spent to finance the Vietnam War . " This is mere d ? j ? vu of the criminal organization known as the United States government . " <p> Canadian Frank Sterle Jr . reflected on Gaza : " It has long seemed to me as a news consumer that the value of a life abroad is typically perceived according to the abundance of protracted conditions under which it suffers , especially during wartime , and that this effect can be exacerbated when there 's also racial contrast . " <p> Writing from New Windsor , N.Y. , Lois Lichtenberg called for a shift in coverage of a different sort in response to a photo of NFL quarterback Patrick Mahomes ' " beautiful " wife : " How about a nice beefcake pic of hubby Patrick ? We girls deserve equal exposure ( wink , wink ) . " <p> NYC 's impending trash bin rules to help in the fight against rats prompted James Scotto of Yorktown Heights , N.Y. , to urge choosing humane methods over glue traps , reminding us that rodents are " emotional , intelligent and just looking to survive . " <p> In April , New Yorkers were shaken by a rare earthquake . From Greenburgh , N.Y. , Nicole Bamber shared her experience . " It started as a rumble underground . I thought I was insane , thinking it felt like the subway but in the suburbs . Then our windows and doors started rattling and things fell off of shelves in our dining room , " she said . " My dog Nugget went nuts . <p> Another natural rarity that month was the solar eclipse , and some headed to places where the sun would be totally blocked by the moon . " ' The path of totality ' is one of those great phrases , like ' the cone of silence ' in ' Get Smart , ' " mused Rick Sinclair of Suffern , N.Y . <p> As Middle East protests persisted , Shirley Watts of Jamaica looked to the past to make sense of the present . " For those of you in my age group , does n't this all sound familiar ? Different reasons , of course , since the late ' 60s , but we 've been here before . Seems like the old saying ' history repeats itself ' is exactly what 's going on . " <p> Daniel Jean Lipsman of Manhattan gave his recommendation : " Private entities , like Columbia University , need to divest themselves -- of hypocritical , troublemaking rabble-rousers . No one forced these students to pay tuition to institutions whose policies they disagree with . " <p> With anxieties over the presidential candidates mounting , Warren Gross of New Rochelle , N.Y. , expressed concern that both lacked " the character , skill and vision " necessary for the role . " They both should step aside and let new leaders be put into place while we still have a place . " <p> In July , a potential assassin 's bullet grazed Donald Trump 's ear . " Less than half an inch would have changed the history of the world for the better or for the worse , " said C ? line Secada of Bedford , N.Y . " I pray that our former president realizes he 's not immune to the effects of his own hate-filled , revenge rhetoric . " <p> Days later , another earthquake , this one political . <p> " With President Biden 's decision to drop out of the presidential campaign , Donald Trump now becomes the oldest person ever nominated for president , " noted John Dent of Woodland Park , N.J. " If he is elected , he will also be the oldest president when he completes his term . Do we really want to go through this again ? " <p> In August , readers like JoAnn Lee Frank of Clearwater , Fla. , celebrated . " Freedom is something to be cherished . Just ask Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich , who had been held in Russian captivity for nearly 16 months , and former Marine Paul Whelan , " she said . <p> On the killing of Hamas political leader Ismael Haniyeh , Frank Metzger of Pomona , N.Y. , questioned the wisdom : " Now who 's going to negotiate for the ceasefire that will release the hostages ? " <p> Amid the onslaught of stories about terrible things in the world , Brooklynite Mariann Tepedino found a nice one . " I love the kumbaya story about the hydrant fish in Bedford-Stuyvesant . " <p> After the death of Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar , Frank Barnett of Queens Village chided the president 's guidance on Gaza . " If the Israeli army listened to Biden warning them not to go into Rafah , they would not have gotten the Hamas leader . " <p> Peter J. Peirano of Ridgewood , N.J. , saw that the event would be seen differently depending on who was looking . " Many will not mourn his death , as it opens a possibility of peace in Gaza . Others will mourn the death of a hero resisting oppression to his last breath . " <p> From Huntington Station , L.I. , Nancy Macri Kennedy celebrated another bit of good news . " Just watched the Liberty take the first title in franchise history . Fantastic ! " <p> Election Day saw Trump return to the Oval Office . David DiBello of Brooklyn offered his perspective : " The Biden administration has failed at foreign leadership , and Kamala Harris ca n't see anything she would do differently , " he said . " On Tuesday , I voted for Trump to the second term he so justly deserves . " <p> " I really did n't think all that hate would win , " said Greg Arnold of Hauppauge , L.I . <p> Another assassin 's bullet found its mark this month , sparking debate over not only violence but health insurance . <p> " It 's too bad that an insurance CEO had to die so some crazy guy could send his message , but maybe now these greedy , selfish health insurance companies will realize that health and life are more important than stock dividends , " said Bob Wiecezak of New Hyde Park , L.I . <p> In Brooklyn , Barbara Prince bemoaned the crappy state of things . " You have to watch where you are walking every step of the way , otherwise you are stepping into dog poop , " she said . <p> That could be said about a lot of things in the world today , Barbara . So many of us feel it . And yet , we hold out hope and look for the bright spots we can rejoice in . Whatever happens , we 'll keep reporting it , and we 'll keep publishing what you think about it . Just keep writing .
