<h> Israeli official reveals how ' to truly defeat Hezbollah ' <p> An Israeli official said on Sunday that the return of normal civilian life in northern Israel along the border with Lebanon is the way " to truly defeat Hezbollah . " <p> " In order to truly defeat Hezbollah -- because militarily , we have already won , and our victory is very clear -- to truly win , to achieve long-term victory , is to have many residents living here ( northern Israel ) , vast tourism , to reopen the restaurants and cafes that used to be here , to have people coming to cycle , agriculture flourishing -- everything thriving , " Israeli Defense Forces ( IDF ) Chief of the General Staff , LTG Herzi Halevi , said while visiting southern Lebanon . <p> " This is a long-term victory . And the state must step in and strongly reinforce this responsibility , " he added . <p> Fox News confirmed that Halevi had conducted a situational assessment on Sunday in southern Lebanon with the Commanding Officer of the Northern Command , MG Ori Gordin ; the Commanding Officer of the 146th Division , BG Yiftach Norkin ; the Commanding Officer of the 300th Brigade , COL Omri Rosenkrantz ; and other senior officers . <p> The IDF Chief of the General Staff , LTG Herzi Halevi , conducted a situational assessment on Dec. 29 , 2024 in southern Lebanon with the Commanding Officer of the Northern Command , MG Ori Gordin ; the Commanding Officer of the 146th Division , BG Yiftach Norkin ; the Commanding Officer of the 300th Brigade , COL Omri Rosenkrantz ; and other senior officers . <p> A cease-fire deal between Israel and the Iran-backed terrorist group Hezbollah in Lebanon has held for a month as of Friday . <p> Since the 60-day agreement went into effect on Nov. 27 , Israeli forces have been conducting operations in southern Lebanon that they say are meant to dismantle terror tunnels and Hezbollah 's command center . <p> According to the New York Times , Israeli forces have continued strikes as the cease-fire deal has held , mostly in southern Lebanon but now , as of days ago , also in the eastern Bekaa region . <p> Thousands of Israelis have evacuated villages along the Lebanon border after Hezbollah , in allegiance with Hamas terrorists in Gaza , began launching rockets at Israel following the Oct. 7 , 2023 , attacks . <p> The IDF Chief of the General Staff , LTG Herzi Halevi , conducted a situational assessment on Dec. 29 , 2024 , in southern Lebanon . <p> Israeli forces in response have pummeled Lebanon , severely weakening Hezbollah , forcing the group to make concessions . <p> India 's payments regulator is set to decide as early as Monday whether to curb the dominance of Walmart 's PhonePe and Google in the nation 's fast-growing mobile payments market , a move that could reshape how its billion-plus population moves money . The decision centers on UPI , or Unified Payments Interface , a network backed by more than 50 retail banks that has changed how Indians pay for everything from groceries to taxi rides . At issue is whether the National Payments Corporation of India , which reports to India 's central bank , will enforce a rule limiting companies to handling no more than 30% of all UPI transactions .
