<h> The Most Dangerous People on the Internet in 2024 <p> From Elon Musk and Donald Trump to state-sponsored hackers and crypto scammers , this was the year the online agents of chaos gained ground . <p> ILLUSTRATION : GRAPHICS BY JAMES MARSHALL ; WIRED STAFF ; GETTY <p> For its entire existence as a global medium , the internet 's evolution has been caught in a tug of war , pulled by opposing forces : on one side , moderation and control ; on the other , disruption and anarchy . <p> This year , the most prominent actors weighing in on the side of disruption were familiar faces : The reckless oligarchs , cybercriminals , scammers , and state-sponsored hackers who made the internet feel particularly dangerous in 2024 were , to some degree , the same forces destabilizing the online world in 2023 . But perhaps more than in any other recent year , those agents of chaos seemed to persist in the face of opposition , to grow in their influence -- and to win . <p> From Elon Musk 's completed remake of X in his own tech-bro image to Trump 's disinformation-fueled campaign , to Russia 's ongoing cyberattacks against Ukraine , to China 's relentless onslaught of digital intrusions and crypto scammers ' global spread , the online experience of 2024 was messy , hazardous , and Hobbesian . And for the most part , the people who made it that way are poised to exert even more influence over the year to come . <p> As we do every year , WIRED has assembled a list of the most dangerous people , groups , and organizations on the internet . Here are our picks for 2024 . <h> Elon Musk <p> After years of evolution from entrepreneur to edgelord , Musk seemed to reach his final form this year in the run-up to November 's US election . Once a technologist with ambiguous politics who occasionally pursued public arguments against scuba divers , Musk now uses his megaphone of 200-million-plus followers on X , the social media platform he fully controls , to broadcast an unrelenting stream of anti-regulation , anti-immigrant , anti-transgender , anti-press , anti-progressive talking points . He 's amplified and repeated disinformation , like claims after the disastrous damage done by Hurricanes Helene and Milton that the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) was hoarding supplies or had spent its budget on migrants instead of needy Americans . He 's repeated debunked theories about voter fraud and immigrants swinging elections . In at least one case , he 's even seemed to drop a reference that suggest support for the QAnon movement , which maintains bizarre theories about satanic pedophile rings that only Donald Trump can destroy . <p> Meanwhile , Musk continues to push his AI startup , xAI , toward one of the most no-holds-barred visions of what that technology can make possible , with little regard for safety or preventing its use for disinformation . The company this year launched new image-generation capabilities in its Grok tool that were immediately used to create images of copyrighted characters , celebrities , and political figures in compromising or sexual positions . Musk himself at one point posted an AI-generated deepfake of Kamala Harris that mocked her with her own voice -- with no annotation that it was not authentic -- that received 150 million views . <p> More than any particular political message or technology he 's pushed , however , the danger Musk represents is simply that the richest man in the world can buy one of the internet 's most vital media platforms , then use it , along with hundreds of millions of dollars in donations , to elect the president of his choosing and shape US policy . After Trump 's election , Musk was rewarded with hundreds of billions more in net worth . The system , in other words , is working -- for oligarchs like Elon Musk . <h> Donald Trump <p> For the next four years , Donald Trump will once again be the most powerful single person in the world . This year , he was just a very loud one . On social media platforms like X -- where Musk reinstated Trump 's account despite a 2021 ban following his incitement of the January 6 storming of the US Capitol -- and Trump 's own Truth Social , he lit fires with false claims that arguably helped fuel his path to political victory . Like Musk , he made and repeated falsehoods such as FEMA spending its budget on immigrants rather than hurricane victims , or that immigrants were stealing and eating pets . By converting Robert F. Kennedy Jr . from a third-party candidate to an endorsing ally , Trump also reciprocally endorsed RFK Jr . ' s long-running stream of anti-vaccine misinformation , rhetoric that has led to childhood vaccine rates now dipping to a lower level than before the Covid-19 pandemic . <p> Once his second term in office begins , Trump is poised to use digital surveillance to carry out a highly disruptive and even vindictive agenda : He 's promised mass deportations of millions of immigrants starting on day one of his administration , and he 's vowed to target political opponents and journalists with prosecution . There 's little doubt that Trump will top this list in 2025 . But in 2024 , his words alone represent a clear and present danger . <h> Volt Typhoon <p> In the cybersecurity world , the last months of 2024 have been dominated by warnings from public officials about a Chinese state-sponsored hacking group known as Salt Typhoon , which has penetrated at least eight telecoms , in some cases accessing the real-time calls and texts of Americans . But in the midst of that cyberespionage scandal , a different , far more dangerous digital threat from China still quietly looms : A Chinese state-sponsored group called Volt Typhoon spent much of 2024 continuing its stealthy campaign to breach US critical infrastructure facilities -- not to spy on communications , but to prepare for a potential cyberattack . While headlines about Volt Typhoon have largely dissipated since it was first called out and named by Microsoft in May of 2023 , officials warn that the group continues to " pre-position " itself inside of networks that appear to be chosen for maximum disruption , perhaps timed to a Chinese invasion of Taiwan . Given that Chinese head of state Xi Jinping has told his country 's military to be prepared for that invasion by 2027 , now is the time to head off the digital salient of what could be a world-shaking future war . <h> Sandworm <p> While Volt Typhoon prepares , Sandworm attacks . The Russian hacking group , a unit of the country 's GRU military intelligence agency , has in fact carried out many of the most disruptive cyberattacks of the past decade . Those attacks -- mostly in Ukraine -- include at least three blackouts triggered by its hacking , the destructive NotPetya malware that spread around the globe and inflicted $10 billion in damage , and countless data-destroying breaches that the group has carried out since the beginning of Russia 's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 . In 2024 , as Russia fought Ukraine to a stalemate or regained territory in the east of the country , Sandworm continued to project its power beyond that front : Security firm StrikeReady discovered Sandworm targeting Ukraine 's energy sector again this fall , perhaps in preparation for another round of electrical utility hacking , either to carry out its own attacks or as reconnaissance for the Russian military 's now-annual physical bombing of Ukraine 's grid . <h> Israeli Military and Intelligence <p> Last year , WIRED named both the IDF and Hamas on this list , a nod to each side 's use of the internet in its propaganda efforts in the war in Gaza following Hamas ' October 7 attack . This year , with Israel 's adversaries in that conflict like Hamas and Hezbollah significantly weakened and in retreat , it 's the Israeli forces that remain on the offensive . Israel 's military continues to use AI tooling to identify targets for bombs as its strikes have killed tens of thousands of Gazan civilians and leveled entire cities in the territory . Israeli missiles continue to intermittently knock out Gaza 's communications infrastructure , destroying 80 percent of the country 's top telecom 's cell towers and leading to information blackouts amid the destruction and starvation of that now year-plus siege . Add to all of that a still-mysterious Israeli supply chain attack that hid lethal explosives in pagers and walkie-talkies in an effort to target Hezbollah operatives , which led to immediate distrust of all communications devices in the country , and Israel 's government forces remain an internet apex predator by any definition . <h> Black Cat/AlphV/RansomHub <p> Ransomware in 2024 was , again , one of the most abhorrent forms of cybercrime to blight the internet . But few ransomware attacks in history have been quite as dangerous and damaging as the one that targeted UnitedHealthcare subsidiary Change Healthcare early this year , carried out by a ransomware group known as Black Cat or AlphV . Even after extracting a $22 million ransom from the company -- a payment processor that handles around 40 percent of all health care insurance claims across the US -- the hackers ' disruption of Change 's network continued to prevent the company from completing payments to pharmacies , clinics , health care practices , and hospitals across the country for weeks , causing some to even go out of business . Then , as if it had n't inflicted enough chaos , AlphV ran off with Change 's ransom money instead of sharing it with a group of hackers with whom it had partnered to infiltrate the company . That led the jilted hackers to share the data stolen from Change Healthcare with another , newer ransomware crew called RansomHub , which extorted the company a second time -- an unprecedented health care cybersecurity debacle . <h> The Com <p> Even in an age of state-sponsored Chinese cyberspies , Russian hacker saboteurs , and ransomware gangs , nihilistic young hackers remain a constant in the darker corners of the internet . And few of those corners are as dark as the ones frequented by the Com . The loose movement of online trolls and criminals who operate under the Com banner in channels on Telegram and Discord , many just in their teens , engage in some of the most despicable digital crimes possible , from petty crypto theft and ransomware to sextortion , harassment , and the creation and trade of child sexual abuse material . This year , several members of a Com subgroup of ransomware hackers known as Scattered Spider were arrested , following their alleged high-profile 2023 attacks on companies including Caesar 's Entertainment and MGM Resorts . But other members of the group are allegedly responsible for the serial breaches of well over a hundred customers of the cloud provider Snowflake . It 's a safe bet that the Com will continue to serve as a haven for plenty more criminal acts to come . <h> Data Brokers <p> Once , privacy fears centered on government agencies like the FBI and NSA and their ability to carry out mass surveillance worldwide . Now , increasingly , we give away that same surveillance data en masse to companies you 've never heard of . This year , it came to light that several data brokers collect and then sell access to Americans ' highly granular location data pulled from their phones . Surveillance services like Babel Street 's LocateX allegedly can -- and do -- track visitors to sensitive locations abortion clinic or mosques . A data broker called Near Intelligence left a vast cache of location data exposed online , revealing the movements of hundreds of visitors to sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein 's island in the Caribbean . Reporting on both companies has demonstrated how much private location data our devices leave behind as revelatory digital detritus , and how the possession of that data now extends far beyond government agencies to little-known firms with highly questionable privacy and security practices . <h> Character.AI <p> If 2023 was the year that AI tools future-shocked the internet with their seemingly abrupt rise to prominence , 2024 was the year that those tools became normalized , quietly settling into common use in spite of all their alleged flaws and ethical problems . Yet those issues are still there , and perhaps no startup better exemplifies them than Character.AI , an AI firm backed by $2.7 billion in investment from Google . According to lawsuits filed in Texas and Florida against the company , its chatbots have encouraged children to engage in self-harm and violence against their parents , and allegedly contributed to 14-year-old dying by suicide . Other chatbots hosted by the company have allegedly coached kids into developing eating disorders , role-playing as school shooters , and even seemed to be sexually grooming them . Despite repeatedly vowing to implement age restrictions , no meaningful age safeguards appear to have been added even now , according to news outlet Futurism . If this is the future of artificial intelligence , the AI era is going to be a dark age indeed . <h> Crypto Scammers <p> The crypto-based investment scams known as " pig butchering " -- a term experts now say should be retired because it can further harm victims -- pulled in a staggering $37 billion in 2023 , and likely more in 2024 . The victims of that explosively growing form of crimes are n't just those who fall for its scams and lose their life savings , but also many of the perpetrators of the scams themselves : As many as 200,000 people have been enslaved in compounds across Southeast Asia and forced to carry out the fraud schemes . In some cases , they 've been kept in electrified shackles and faced threats of cattle prods and beatings from the gangs overseeing their work . This year , the dystopia those scammers have ushered in has begun to spread worldwide , with operations cropping up in the Middle East , Eastern Europe , Latin America , and West Africa . The targets of their fraud , of course , are even more global . Crypto scams have already become a top-tier form of cybercrime , and there 's no end in sight to the expansion of this predatory underworld industry . <p> When programmer Micah Lee was kicked off X for a post that offended Elon Musk , he did n't look back . His new tool for saving and deleting your X posts can give you that same sweet release . <p> Andy Greenberg <p> WIRED is where tomorrow is realized . It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation . The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives -- from culture to business , science to design . The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking , new connections , and new industries .
