<h> What Could Citizens ' Assemblies Do for American Politics ? <p> Downtown Bend , Oregon , which has transformed in recent decades as newcomers have flocked to the city.Photograph by Joe Kline / NYT / Redux <p> Last July , an unusual letter arrived at Kathryn Kundmueller 's mobile home , in central Oregon . It invited her to enter a lottery that would select thirty residents of Deschutes County to deliberate for five days on youth homelessness -- a visible and contentious issue in an area where the population and cost of living have spiked in recent years . Those chosen would be paid for their time -- almost five hundred dollars -- and asked to develop specific policy recommendations . <p> Kundmueller was being invited to join what is known as a citizens ' assembly . These gatherings do what most democracies only pretend to : trust normal people to make decisions on difficult policy questions . Many citizens ' assemblies follow a basic template . They impanel a random but representative cross-section of a population , give them high-quality information on a topic , and ask them to work together to reach a decision . In Europe , such groups have helped spur reform of the Irish constitution in order to legalize abortion , guided an Austrian pharmaceutical heiress on how to give away her wealth , and become a regular part of government in Paris and Belgium . Though still rare in America , the model reflects the striking idea that fundamental problems of politics -- polarization , apathy , manipulation by special interests -- can be transformed through radically direct democracy . <p> Kundmueller , who is generally frustrated by politics , was intrigued by the letter . She liked the prospect of helping to shape local policy , and the topic of housing insecurity had a particular resonance for her . As a teen-ager , following a falling-out with her father , she spent months bouncing between friends ' couches in Vermont . When she moved across the country to San Jose , after college , she lived in her car for a time while she searched for a stable job . She worked in finance but became disillusioned ; now in her early forties , she ran a small housecleaning business . She still thought about living in a van and renting out her mobile home to save money . <p> From an initial mailing to twelve thousand seven hundred households in Deschutes County , about a hundred and twenty people responded . The assembly 's organizers -- a group of nonprofits with support from local elected officials and philanthropic funding -- wanted selected delegates to mirror the county 's demographics along many axes , including age , gender , housing status , ethnicity , political affiliation , and education . Using survey results from the respondents , the Portland-based organization Healthy Democracy deployed a software program to create numerous combinations of delegates that would reflect the region in microcosm . When one of those groups was chosen at random , through a lottery-style system , Kundmueller was in it . <p> The assembly lasted five full days , spread across two weekends a few weeks apart . The members of the cohort , who ranged in age from their teens to their eighties , included a retired pipe fitter , an I.T . specialist , a restaurant manager , a worker at a local bullet manufacturer , and several small-business owners . Some of the delegates were struggling to pay rent in cramped apartments ; others owned spacious homes with many spare rooms . About fifty per cent were politically unaffiliated , with the other half split evenly between Democrats and Republicans . <p> They met in the airy wood-panelled atrium of a new building on the Oregon State University-Cascades campus , in the county seat of Bend , and spent the first weekend learning about youth homelessness and about one another , with icebreakers , small-group discussions , and presentations from experts . " It had an awkward vibe in the room to me , in a really good way , sort of that first-class-of-college kind of feel , " a member of a regional government council who observed the first weekend told me . <p> Awkward but civil conversation was an improvement over recent political discourse about homelessness in Deschutes County . One Bend city-council member recalled a public meeting at which someone compared homeless people to raccoons , saying that if they 're fed , they will stay in the area and make more raccoons . Advocates for homeless people could be extreme , too ; another local elected official described being likened to a Nazi for suggesting a need to regulate encampments . <p> During the first weekend , the assembly members generated questions that they wanted answered in the second session . The organizers then convened panels made up of nonprofit service providers , government employees , and community advocates to address the delegates . Some questions were very broad , such as " How can we disrupt the cycle of generational poverty ? " Others were highly targeted : " How much money is spent sweeping the homeless encampments ? " and " Is there more funding or resources to build more tiny homes ? " <p> In an age of high political polarization and dysfunction , a diverse group of citizens calmly studying and discussing a nuanced issue presents a surprisingly functional image of politics . " It was like Congress without the showboating , " Elizabeth Marino , an associate professor of anthropology at O.S.U.-Cascades whose research explores divisive conversations , said of the first weekend . Marino , alongside a group of researchers from M.I.T. , was interested in observing the assembly to understand how people navigate charged conversations . Marino 's research team has found that when they shift the moral frames used to discuss polarizing topics , greater consensus becomes possible . In one study , the researchers discovered that when climate change was framed in terms of patriotism , personal responsibility , and the purity of America 's environment , conservatives were more likely to say that it was caused by humans than when the topic was discussed with an emphasis on values like justice or fairness , which typically appeal more to liberals . The team found a similar result when a suicide-prevention message aimed at firearm owners invoked tradition and responsibility . These were controlled studies ; whether anything similar would happen spontaneously in Bend was an open question . <p> On a cool Friday morning in October , the delegates talked over coffee and fruit in the light-filled atrium as they waited for the final three days of the assembly to begin . The aesthetic in the room was split between elk-hunting cabin and trendy coffee shop ; some people wore jeans , work boots , or cowboy hats , while others were in leggings , puffy jackets , and hoodies . Bend reflects a similar mix : the city , which has a population of roughly a hundred thousand , is a former logging town now home to craft breweries , upscale boutiques , and tech companies . <p> As the delegates took their seats at a large U-shaped table , they chatted amiably . After the first weekend , they now knew who played Scrabble , who owned alpacas , who did upholstery work . The mood was more neighborhood-association potluck than city-council meeting . <p> On a bank of windows was a cloud of yellow sticky notes on which delegates had written points that they wanted the entire group to consider . These ranged from the factual ( " 500 homeless kids in central Oregon " ) to policy pitches ( " Cash direct transfers has shown life altering changes for youth in the homeless system " ) to an aphorism attributed to the conservative economist Thomas Sowell ( " There are no solutions , only trade-offs " ) . <p> During the morning session , a delegate named Benjamin , a bearded man in a blue-and-white plaid shirt , tapped the microphone on the table in front of his seat and began to speak . Based on the information presented , he said , it seemed safe to assume that it was not possible to increase the supply of housing fast enough to drive down prices . He wondered instead if there was a way to decrease demand from " buyers from outside the area " who had " disproportionate purchasing power . " <p> The three panelists -- all housing-policy experts and staffers in city or county government -- did not offer any concrete ways to do this . " It 's probably a bigger philosophical discussion , " Erik Kropp , the deputy county administrator for Deschutes , said . " I 'm not sure how you limit the purchaser in terms of where they 're coming from . " When a second panelist mentioned a policy in Portland that used property-tax revenue to fund affordable housing , Benjamin , reading from his laptop , cited various places that tax buyers from outside of the region : " I have a list right here , " he said . Kundmueller , a few seats away , nodded as he spoke and jotted something down on her notepad . " Is that something that you consider to be politically feasible ? " Benjamin asked the members of the panel . They did n't know ; one suggested it was a question for elected officials , not staff . <p> Benjamin 's idea could be seen as a wealth tax , but this was not how he presented it . He instead made an implicit appeal to defend people within the area from outsiders driving up prices . " That struck me , " Marino said later . " That felt like a novel path forward . That 's something you do n't get very often when you 're listening to a debate on the floor , right ? " <p> During a snack break , I approached Benjamin , who was holding forth to a small group of delegates about the unreliability of the media . The rumors about immigrants eating pets in Springfield , Ohio , were grounded in truth , he claimed -- he was from there , so he should know . He was happy to talk with me about his life and his political views , which he described as " somewhere in the vicinity of anarchism , agorism , and libertarianism . " But he felt that these labels were misleading . " What libertarian have you heard suggest hiking up taxes ? " <p> Kundmueller 's views also defied easy characterization . She grew up listening to NPR and supporting Democrats , she said , but their support for Israel 's bombing of civilians in Gaza was one among several issues that made her feel it was hard to back the Party . On youth homelessness , she strongly believed that corporations were not people and should not be allowed to buy real estate as a speculative asset . She liked Benjamin 's idea of taxing wealthy out-of-state buyers at a higher rate . But she also stressed the importance of individual responsibility . She had recently finished the 2018 book " The Coddling of the American Mind , " by the attorney and free-speech activist Greg Lukianoff and the social psychologist Jonathan Haidt , and she thought that young people needed to learn independence and self-reliance . " It seems like we have a society that continues to sort of go down that route of sort of forced helplessness , " she said . <p> Throughout the final weekend of the citizens ' assembly , the delegates drafted , revised , and finally voted for specific policy recommendations . The process was full of iterative loops , so that as ideas were tested against empirical information and the views of other panelists , they could be gradually strengthened and refined . One afternoon , during a collaborative editing session , there was some disagreement about a single word . An older delegate had proposed that the principle of promoting " strong families " should guide their thinking . A younger delegate felt that the word " strong " was too aggressive , and urged the assembly to consider encouraging " community building " rather than " this supposed structure of a strong family . " As the author of the proposal , the first delegate had the final word , and he objected to this revision . After a few minutes of discussion among multiple delegates , he agreed to replace " strong families " with " cohesive and resilient families . " It was a small but significant moment -- a civil exchange of different views , followed by a compromise . <p> With other suggestions , compromise was not an option . As solutions to youth homelessness , one man proposed a one-child policy and a war with another country to boost the economy . These were just the sort of trollish suggestions that on social media would incite a predictable storm of outrage . In person , the effect was different . Another delegate in the same small-group discussion said that the ideas got polite but forceful pushback . " He had , like , seventeen ideas , and some of them were very good and interesting . And the other ones , you know , were definitely more out there , " the other delegate said . <p> On the final day of the assembly , delegates ranged through the atrium and two adjoining rooms , voting on more than four dozen discrete recommendations written on sheets of white paper hung from walls and windows . Beneath each recommendation was printed a brief rationale and pros and cons listed by delegates . People voted by pasting small colored stickers in a quadrant to show one of four levels of support : strongly agree , agree , neutral , or disagree . The delegates themselves had proposed a refinement to the voting , asking for the results to be covered beneath a privacy flap , so that social influence had less sway over their choices . <p> The recommendations that were supported by a super-majority , with seventy-five per cent of delegates either agreeing or strongly agreeing , were varied . Some focussed on schools : one suggested that school staff be allowed to override the state 's " ten-day drop policy , " which unenrolls students who are absent for more than ten days ; another aimed to mandate financial-literacy training for young people . Some proposed more funding for nonprofits or the centralization of services such as child-care support , public transit , vocational training , and social-media outreach to advertise these services . Other recommendations targeted the foster-care system , calling for more resources for eighteen-year-olds leaving the system and redefining the goal of always reuniting young people with their birth families . All twenty-two recommendations that cleared this seventy-five-per-cent threshold were presented in November to the Bend City Council , the county commissioners , and a body of formerly homeless young people called the Central Oregon Youth Action Board . It 's still unclear which , if any , of these will be implemented , but elected officials will respond to them in the new year . <p> One of the popular recommendations was a descendant of Benjamin 's idea : seventy-seven per cent of delegates supported reforming local housing policy to benefit community members through measures such as levying taxes on second or additional properties , or instituting a tax on non-owner-occupied properties . This was neither a wealth tax nor a tax on buyers from out of state , but the proposal overlapped with both ideas . <p> Multiple delegates were skeptical that politicians would act on any of these recommendations . Early in the weekend , when I first asked Kundmueller if she thought any of their ideas would become reality , she gave a derisive laugh and answered , " No . " But when I asked her at the end how she was feeling , she had changed her mind a little . " I definitely came in a skeptic , " she said . " Now I 'm optimistically skeptical . " ? <p> A whistle-blower report and other documents suggest that Trump 's nominee to run the Pentagon was forced out of previous leadership positions for financial mismanagement , sexist behavior , and being repeatedly intoxicated on the job .
