<p> Jimmy Carter wore a button-down shirt in Khartoum . It was a sweltering morning and the sun shone on the Nile as the clamorous city was rousing to life . Carter was in the Sudanese capital to monitor the 2010 election that was certain to extend the rule of autocrat Omar Hassan Ahmed Bashir , who had been indicted on international charges of crimes against humanity . <p> Carter was not deterred . He believed the first multiparty election in decades -- no matter how flawed -- would bring the war-scarred country closer to democracy . His blue eyes agleam , his trousers pressed , the former president , a wanderer accustomed to the planet 's cruel and harsh predicaments , offered coffee and pastries in his hotel room . He was optimistic but knew well what could happen when leaders with outsize ambitions controlled holy men and armies . <p> I was in town covering the story for The Times , and a representative from the Carter Center called and invited me to breakfast . <p> Advertisement <p> Carter , who died Sunday at 100 , was president when I was a teenager . I knew him well from TV -- that swoop of hair , Southern accent and disarming resolve that confronted a post-Watergate world of gas lines , inflation , the Iranian hostage crisis and a sense that America was adrift . His presidency had been much maligned . But his second act as humanitarian , house builder , Guinea worm exterminator and Nobel Peace Prize winner was a portrait of perseverance and grace . <p> Carter , with wife Rosalynn at the 1976 Democratic National Convention , was much-maligned for his presidency amid multiple crises , but went on to shine as a humanitarian . <p> ( Associated Press ) <p> An aide greeted me when I entered the hotel room . She quietly vanished . Carter walked in and sat on a small couch . Coffee was poured . A Danish slid onto a plate , a bit of fruit . Fishing boats were busy in the currents below and tea ladies dressed in plumes of colors stoked fires beneath blackened kettles on the corners . <p> Advertisement <p> Carter spoke about Sudan -- its possibilities and dangers , and the fact that in coming months the country 's south , with its vast oil reserves , would hold an independence referendum on whether to secede from the north . Would Bashir relinquish the south to let it be governed by a former enemy in a cowboy hat , who presided over a territory with fewer than 100 miles of paved roads and a population that was 80% illiterate ? <p> Carter knew the personalities and pitfalls , the egos and secrets , the maps and ledgers . He had traveled across Sudan ; years earlier he 'd brokered a ceasefire in its civil war . He always went to the source , to places of refugees , poverty , disease and despair . To see and bear witness , much like the Bible school teacher he was back in Plains , Ga . He did n't know what would happen . But he had hope . <p> The sun rose higher in the midmorning sky . The room quieted . <p> " You 're based in Cairo , " he said . <p> " Yes . " <p> He leaned closer . <p> " Tell me about things , " he said . " What 's happening ? " <p> I felt like I was being quizzed by a man who had read countless dossiers and was intimate with the rise and fall of power . It was at once intimidating and bracing . <p> Advertisement <p> The restlessness and anger in the Arab world were nearing a breaking point that would erupt months later . Tunisia would ignite into nationwide protests . An uprising in Egypt would bring down President Hosni Mubarak . Tremors would spread from Syria and Yemen and from Libya to Bahrain . There were few inklings when we met of what would unfold , but the Middle East that Carter had spent so much time navigating was about to come undone yet again . <p> He mostly wanted to discuss the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the possibilities , no matter how remote , of any progress toward reconciliation on that front . In 1978 , Carter had held talks at Camp David with Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat that would lead to a historic peace treaty . Carter believed then -- apparently wrongly , given the problems that would come -- that the pact would bring wider regional stability . And he hoped it would one day lead to a two-state solution for Israelis and Palestinians . <p> Carter celebrates in 1979 with Egyptian President Anwar Sadat , left , and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin , right , after they signed a peace treaty Carter helped their nations reach . <p> ( Associated Press ) <p> Carter would later face criticism for his opinions on the issue . Many Jews and others were angered by his 2006 book , " Palestine Peace Not Apartheid , " which they saw as painting Israel as an aggressor and being overly sympathetic to Palestinians . Carter defended the book as well as his meetings with Hamas , which critics argued enhanced the stature of the militant group that the U.S. and Israel consider a terrorist organization . Carter later told an audience in Cairo that apartheid " is the exact description of what 's happening in Palestine now . " <p> But his vision remained focused , his commitment to peace unwavering . Three years later , in his book " We Can Have Peace in the Holy Land , " Carter wrote : " Everyone who engages in Middle East peacemaking is bound to make mistakes and suffer frustrations . Everyone must overcome the presence of hatred and fanaticism , and the memories of horrible tragedies . Everyone must face painful choices and failures in negotiations . Nevertheless , I am convinced that the time is ripe for peace in the region . " <p> Carter had been in hospice since before Hamas attacked Israel on Oct. 7 and killed some 1,200 people . Israel has been retaliating with an ongoing bombardment of the Gaza Strip that health authorities there say has killed more than 45,000 Palestinians . <p> Advertisement <p> The Carter Center released a statement late last year saying : " The violence must stop now . There is no military solution to this crisis , only a political one that acknowledges the common humanity of both Israelis and Palestinians , respects the human rights of all , and creates a path for both societies to live side by side in peace . " <p> It would have been good to have heard Carter 's own voice , his Southern-inflected resolve and traveler 's wisdom . <p> What struck me most in that Khartoum hotel room were his empathy and his insatiable need to know . He was relentless in his pursuit , to track down threads and unfold scenarios , to follow the great maneuverings and go where needed -- like to Sudan , where years earlier he 'd landed to try to help end fighting between Bashir 's troops and rebels who later ascended to power in a new country . Bashir was overthrown in 2019 , and Sudan is again in turmoil . <p> It is difficult to mend the hard corners of the world . To find justice amid the stain of transgression . Carter 's gift was his capacity to wonder ; to know the bitter truths and imagine something better . <p> Jeffrey Fleishman is a senior writer at the Los Angeles Times . Previously , he was the foreign and national editor . A 2002 Nieman fellow at Harvard University , Fleishman was a Pulitzer Prize finalist in feature writing . A longtime foreign correspondent , he served as bureau chief for The Times in Cairo and Berlin , and was previously based in Rome for the Philadelphia Inquirer . He also was a writer on film , art and culture . Fleishman has been a finalist for the Goldsmith Prize for Investigative Reporting and a finalist for the Center for Public Integrity 's Award for Outstanding International Investigative Reporting . He is the author of five novels , including " Good Night , Forever " and " Last Dance . "
