<p> If you buy something using links in our stories , we may earn a commission . This helps support our journalism . Learn more . Please also consider subscribing to WIRED <p> Let 's face it -- 2024 has felt at times like a relentless conveyor belt of doom . The climate crisis is still gaining momentum , COP underlined the lack of consensus on what to do about it , and attempts to create a plastics treaty failed . Political violence rose to the surface in the US , and there was an election result that foretells four years of chaos and persecution for many . And war , conflict , and violence continue to afflict millions worldwide , from the DRC to South Sudan , Haiti to Yemen , Ukraine to Gaza . <p> But in the midst of the darkness , there were some bright rays of light . Scientists made big strides in countering some of the greatest health problems faced by humanity . Efforts to fight climate change have pressed on . And a cute baby hippo bit her zookeeper 's knee in a fit of childish rage , launching a thousand memes . Here 's our rundown of the best news to come out of 2024 . <p> Routine Childhood Vaccination Against Malaria Began <p> Malaria has proven a stubborn foe -- the quest to produce a vaccine against it began more than a century ago . Now , two are available , and in early 2024 , the world 's first routine childhood immunization campaign against malaria began in Cameroon . The disease kills more than half a million people worldwide every year , but this could be the starting point for bringing this number down significantly . Read more on WIRED . <p> Humans Gathered Their First Rocks From the Far Side of the Moon <p> In May , China 's Chang'e-6 mission began its journey to the far side of the moon , and when it returned to Earth on June 25 , it was carrying a very precious cargo -- almost two kilos of lunar material from a region rarely glimpsed by humans , the dark side of the moon . Researchers hope these rock samples will help reveal how the moon , and other planets , evolved . Read more at Nature . <p> SpaceX 's Starship Completed a Stunning Vertical Landing <p> Elon Musk has said Starships will start journeying to Mars in 2026 . That 's an ambitious goal , but SpaceX made great progress toward it this year . The Starship program completed a number of test flights , the most eye-catching being the fifth test , in October , which saw the giant craft launch successfully and its booster return to and land on its launch tower . It was an exhilarating spectacle -- and potentially a historic milestone in the history of interplanetary travel . Read more on Ars Technica . <p> We 're currently close to solar maximum , the peak of the sun 's predictable 11-year cycle of activity , which is resulting in large waves of charged particles being spewed out from the star . When these reach Earth they create auroras , and bigger waves result in the northern and southern lights being visible at latitudes far from our planet 's poles . With the peak of solar maximum not arriving until the middle of next year , we can expect further vivid and widespread auroras for some more time yet . Read more on WIRED . <p> HIV Vaccines Moved Closer to Reality <p> One reason HIV has been such a threat is because there 's no vaccine against it . Making one remains fiendishly difficult -- the virus mutates rapidly , meaning it can quickly outmaneuver immune defenses . But , for the first time , researchers have successfully managed to use an experimental vaccine to stimulate broadly neutralizing antibodies against many forms of the virus , paving the way for a potential vaccine . The next step is to get the human body to produce these antibodies in greater quantities . Read more on WIRED . <p> A PhD Student Discovered a Lost Mayan City <p> Archaeologists discovered an ancient lost Mayan city this year , unearthing monumental structures such as pyramids and plazas using lidar -- a form of laser mapping that works a bit like radar . Named Valeriana , the city is believed to have been founded before 150 AD . The first person to notice the city 's existence was Luke Auld-Thomas , a PhD student at Tulane University in Louisiana , USA . Hear from Luke about making the discovery on WIRED . <p> The UK Shut Off Its Last Coal Power Station <p> For the first time since 1882 , the United Kingdom has no coal-fired power plants generating electricity , becoming the first country in the G7 to move fully away from coal power . A number of factors combined to bring about the end of coal power in Britain : the growth of natural gas-powered plants and renewables , pollution controls , carbon pricing , and the UK government 's goal to hit net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 . Read more on Ars Technica . <p> New Solar Panels Broke Records for Producing Electricity <p> Experimental cells that combine silicon with a material called perovskite broke the efficiency record for converting solar energy into electricity , producing 60 percent more electricity than conventional solar cells . However , these record-breaking cells are currently made in laboratories and are smaller than a postage stamp . Translating such high performance to meter-square areas remains a vast challenge . Read more on WIRED . <p> Back in February , LA received half a year 's worth of rain in a day -- but the city 's water managers were prepared . In recent years LA has been preparing for more extreme rainfall by transforming into a " sponge city , " replacing impermeable surfaces , like concrete , with permeable ones , like dirt and plants . This avoids flash flooding while at the same time channeling water into the region 's aquifers , to help in times of drought . This is something more and more cities will need to do as the world warms . Read more on WIRED . <p> A Startup Unlocked a Way to Make Cheap Insulin <p> At a time when many Americans are struggling to afford the drugs they need to manage their diabetes , Houston biotech startup rBIO is working to produce an affordable copycat version of insulin via a process involving custom-made bacteria . rBIO says its insulin product is structurally and functionally similar to a brand-name drug , and the company will now move on to clinical testing . Read more on WIRED . <p> Retinal Implants Restored Vision in Blind People <p> Science Corporation -- a California-based brain-computer interface company -- is developing an experimental eye implant to restore vision . After receiving the implant as part of a clinical trial , some participants could see well enough to read from a book , play cards , or fill in a crossword puzzle despite being legally blind . Read more on WIRED . <p> Scientists Tested a Protective Pill for Lyme Disease <p> Tarsus Pharmaceuticals is developing a pill for humans that could protect against tick-borne Lyme disease for several weeks at a time . In February , the Irvine , California -- based biotech company announced results from a small , early-stage trial showing that 24 hours after taking the drug , it can kill ticks on people , with the effects lasting for up to 30 days . Read more on WIRED . <p> Weight Loss Drugs Showed Promise Against a Host of Diseases <p> Ozempic , Zepbound , and other GLP-1 drugs seem to boost heart health , protect the kidneys , improve sleep apnea , and lower the risk of certain obesity-related cancers . Recent studies have also hinted at their potential to treat addiction and even slow the cognitive decline that comes with dementia . Scientists are still working out exactly why they seem to have these positive effects . Read more on WIRED . <p> Fans may not have warmed to them , but Guardian Caps ' results speak for themselves -- since they started being used in practices in 2022 , concussions have roughly halved in these sessions . Only a handful of football players have used the caps in NFL games so far , but with the health impacts of concussion under the spotlight , expect to see them -- or even more effective successors -- become gradually more and more common . Read more on WIRED . <p> Global EV Sales Continued to Rise Strongly <p> November 2024 saw the most electric vehicles sold worldwide in a month ever -- 1.8 million -- breaking a record set just the month before . EV sales have slowed in Europe but are surging in China , and globally , year-on-year growth of EVs in 2024 was about 25 percent , according to the consultancy firm Rho Motion . Read more on Euronews . <p> Adult Obesity in the US Fell -- for the First Time in a Decade <p> Rates of obesity in US adults dipped slightly in 2024 , halting the steady increase seen over the past decade . Observers have been quick to point to the influence of Ozempic , Wegovy , Zepbound , and other GLP-1 drugs , but researchers caution that Covid-19 may also have played a role -- as it disproportionately killed Americans with obesity . Read more at CNBC . <p> Geneticists Solved the Mystery of Why Some Cats Are Orange <p> Two independent studies run by American and Japanese researchers appear to have answered the enduring question of why some cats have orange coats . It turns out the culprit is a genetic variant on cats ' X chromosome . The research also explains why tortoiseshell and calico cats tend to be females . Read more at Smithsonian Magazine . <p> The World 's Largest Sail Cargo Ship Successfully Crossed the Atlantic <p> The wind-propelled Anemos left the French port of Le Havre on August 16 and reached New York on September 3 , having carried 1,200 tons of cargo across the Atlantic . The sail ship traveled at an average speed of 10 knots ( 18.5 km/h ) -- slower than fossil-fuel-powered ships , which average 14 to 25 knots ( 25 to 46 km/h ) -- but it eliminated between 150 and 200 metric tons of CO2 emissions on its journey . It 's estimated that shipping produces 900 million tons of CO2 each year -- roughly 3 percent of global emissions . Read more on RFI . <p> It 's been a tumultuous year in French politics , but there was at least some good news at the end of 2024 : After being badly damaged by a fire in its roof-space in 2019 , Notre Dame reopened its doors in December after five years of repair and renovation works . The cathedral boasts a new altar and a dazzling ivory-colored interior . Repair works are continuing on the exterior of the building . Read more on the Guardian . <p> The US Homicide Rate Continued to Decline <p> In 2020 , homicides in US cities rose on average by 30 percent -- the largest recorded spike in American history . They remained high for several years , before beginning to fall , and are now projected to return to pre-2020 levels for the first time . Data suggests that male unemployment and school closures , particularly in low-income neighborhoods , as a result of the pandemic were the key drivers of the rise in violence . Read more on Brookings . <p> One of the World 's Rarest Cats Is No Longer Endangered <p> The Iberian lynx , one the rarest species of cat in the world , is no longer classified as endangered . There are now thought to be more than 2,000 of these wild cats spread across Spain and Portugal -- up from just 62 mature cats back in 2001 . Read more on the BBC . <p> EVs Are Lasting Longer Than Predicted <p> Rather than having a shorter lifespan than internal combustion engines , as everyone thought , EV batteries may actually last longer . Warranties typically cover EV batteries for eight years , but they look like they might last for up to 20 . But right now it is hard to be certain -- there are very few EVs on the road that are even a decade old . Read more on WIRED . <p> These Guys Hacked AirPods to Give Their Grandmas Hearing Aids <p> When Apple released a software update that enabled its AirPods Pro 2 earbuds to act as hearing aids , Rithwik Jayasimha rushed out to get some for his grandma -- only to realize location restrictions meant the feature did n't work in India . Most people would just admit defeat , but Jayasimha grabbed two friends , some foil , and a microwave , and set to work building a homemade device to get rid of the geolocation restrictions . Read more on WIRED . <p> A Baby Pygmy Hippo Conquered the Internet <p> In July , a global sensation was born . Since being revealed to the public on July 25 at Khao Kheow Open Zoo in Thailand , Moo Deng ( which translates as " Bouncy Pork " ) has become one of the most recognizable faces of the internet . Sure , she 's cute . But what 's propelled her to stardom is her sassy personality : sitting in her mom 's food bowl , biting her zookeeper , charging around her enclosure , and screaming . In 2024 , lots of people could relate . Read more at The New York Times . <h> You Might Also Like ... <p> Rob Reddick is the science editor at WIRED . He commissions and edits stories on health and medicine , biotech , environment and climate , space , energy , and robotics . Before joining WIRED , he was a commissioning editor at the Conversation and Mosaic Science . He is a graduate of the University of Oxford and is ... Read more <p> WIRED is where tomorrow is realized . It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation . The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives -- from culture to business , science to design . The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking , new connections , and new industries .
