<p> In a world where the news does n't stop getting more bat-guano crazy just because it 's Christmas , where a phony war between the United States and Denmark consumes more electrons than the heartbreakingly real ones in Gaza and Ukraine , you might have missed a major escalation in the world conflict that matters most . <p> The unrelenting and wildly successful war on facts , also known as truth . <p> Advertisement <p> A man with 11 kids who spends Christmas Eve tweeting , Elon Musk -- the ketamine-fueledBond villain and richest human in world history who emerged from the Trojan horse of America 's 2024 presidential election hell-bent on world domination -- showed yet again that it 's never enough for him . <p> Sure , his $44 billion dagger into the heart of the U.S. political conversation by buying flawed-but-freewheeling Twitter and turning it into a right-wing cesspool called X helped drag Donald Trump over the Nov. 5 finish line , but what about those pesky pockets of fact-diggers and truth-tellers he has n't bought or destroyed yet ? <p> No wonder the $436 billion man wants to crush Wikipedia ( yearly budget , $177 million ) , the nonprofit internet encyclopedia that uses a messy but open and democratic editing process to grind toward truth . Musk , whose feuds with a website where he ca n't buy and bury details from his antisemitic tweets to allegedly asking a SpaceX employee to " have his babies " are not new , fired off a series of new salvos . <p> " Stop donating to Wokepedia until they restore balance to their editing authority , " wrote Musk atop a tweet from a right-wing font of disinformation called Libs of TikTok . In typical fashion , Musk 's case against the Wikipedia Foundation was based on a gross misrepresentation of its budget , a claim that its efforts to ensure unbiased political entries in contentious , far-flung elections or to build a less-sexist encyclopedia are proof of the MAGA movement 's chief boogeyman , " DEI . " <p> Musk -- who basically set more than $30 billion on fire by deliberately destroying Twitter 's once-high valuation -- has also offered $1 billion for Wikipedia , although it 's unclear whether he actually wants to own it or just change its name to a second-grade-level penis joke . The world dictator of disinformation wants to devalue reality-based information any way he can , because , as Wikipedia-beat journalist Stephen Harrison wrote in 2022 , the site " occupies what appears to be an increasingly rare internet niche : a place where billionaires can not purchase their preferred version of events , nor own the means of conversation . " <p> With little fanfare , the recent Musk-initiated , Trump-enabled assault on the federal government funding deal managed to shut down a $61 million-a-year U.S. State Department office -- set up in 2016 , amid the first wave of Russian election interference -- that employed 120 people to combat foreign-generated disinformation . <p> You know , the kind of folks who might prove useful the next time Russia shoots down a commercial jet and its civilian passengers and tries to pretend it 's a bird strike -- or when it tells Black Americans in Milwaukee to stay home in the next election . But to " President Musk , " these U.S. diplomats were interfering with the only guaranteed constitutional right that matters -- their right to tell lies . <p> This significant surrender on the war against propaganda , and the campaign against a holdout pocket of resistance in Wikipedia , got scant attention in a mainstream media that was decimated both morally and economically over the course of 2024 . Instead , the scribes at the New York Times , Washington Post and elsewhere were on the scavenger hunt for a new batch of shiny objects planted by the nominal president-elect : wild threats to take over the Panama Canal and Greenland and maybe even Canada . <p> Forget Greenland . My strong -- and maybe naive ? -- hunch is that Denmark 's vast , mineral-rich Arctic territory wo n't prove to be 2025 's Sudetenland , but Trump 's blustery and out-of-left-field pitch for American lebensraum is important as the leading edge of Team MAGA 's real World War III -- against any consensus on objective truth . <p> Much like the global upheaval of the 1940s , the real Trump-Musk war is already well underway , waged in every possible theater . In a world where content is king , Trump and his Lion King-hyenas alliance with billionaire oligarchs has now bought and ruined the most prominent real-time information exchange in Twitter-turned-X -- while fighting relentlessly to destroy traditional newsroom or network journalism , through lawsuits , licensing threats or nonstop verbal attacks , on Musk-owned X or elsewhere . <p> I 'm sure that even the late , great George Orwell would have been amazed and impressed at the ways that Trump and Musk have been able to portray these crusades as a battle for free speech , rather than the mother of all conflicts to destroy it . Here , too , we saw a watershed moment this past week as Trump and a lawyer for his incoming administration filed a brief with the Supreme Court to undo the ridiculous , looming ban on the Chinese-owned social-media app TikTok ( a colossal blunder by Dems led by President Joe Biden , but that 's for another day ) . <p> Today 's TikTok , ironically , seems a lot like pre-Musk Twitter -- a wide-open frontier of information that can be fake or scammy or bitingly real , mixing dude-bro Trump agitprop with vital pleas for sanity and truth . But it 's smart politics for the president-elect to position himself as TikTok 's savior . <p> That 's because , in the big picture , TikTok is part of the unreality-based world that flourishes from your uncle 's Facebook feed to YouTube influencers to the supermarket checkout line -- the toxic miasma that got a convicted felon reelected by the most uninformed electorate in modern U.S. history . <p> While championing TikTok , the MAGA movement has worked with remarkable success to undo a movement for professional , trained fact-checking that arose after 2016 's tsunami of disinformation . A prime example is the site NewsGuard , whose ambitious , nonpartisan goals of promoting truth-seeking newsrooms have been undermined by the same unholy alliance of Big Tech and congressional Republicans that has stopped or weakened similar efforts from Harvard to Homeland Security . <p> And so the un-democracy 's Legion of Doom is winning WWIII when American voters are as badly confused and misinformed as those the Washington Post interviewed this past week , like Trump voter Lori Mosura of New Castle , Pa. , who barely subsists largely on Social Security and food stamps . She said , " I think he knows it 's the poor people that got him elected , so I think Trump is going to do more to help us . " This as Musk , Vivek Ramaswamy and their faux commission called DOGE is scheming to somehow slash $2 trillion from the U.S. budget . <p> They are winning their World War III when the elite media takes seriously Trump 's obviously fake bluster about taking over Canada or lowering grocery prices ( or that Trump invented the word " groceries " ) , or when ABC News-owning Disney Corp . grovels with $15 million for a Trump library grift , or when owners of major newspapers spike pro-democracy editorials or invent insane contraptions like a " bias meter . " <p> And the less that the media -- or citizens who prefer to live in a reality-based world -- fight back , the worse things are going to get . This week , a 39-year-old taxi driver and self-described ex-Marine from Grand Junction , Colo. , followed a TV journalist of Pacific Islander descent some 40 miles and then physically attacked him after allegedly yelling , " This is Trump 's America now ! " and " I took an oath to protect this country from people like you ! " <p> The fact that 2024 was also one of the worst years , globally ( and largely due to Gaza ) , for killing journalists since modern record-keeping should be a wake-up call for what can happen here . But yet there is also hope , and not just because the post-Christmas Trumpist meltdown on X -- pitting the billionaire oligarchs of New MAGA against the Classic MAGA of white supremacy -- led to Musk 's blatant efforts to silence his online critics and in the process make an utter mockery of his free speech mantle . <p> Not surprisingly , donations to Wikimedia Foundation from everyday folks outraged by Musk 's renewed assaults have risen sharply since Christmas , perhaps by as much as 400% , although the exact figure is unclear . The aftermath of Trump 's election victory has also sparked a broader conversation about getting smart about fighting disinformation -- by supporting local news and nonprofit ( and thus non-billionaire ) newsrooms and creating alternative ways of getting reality bites to an electorate that is now feasting on fake news . <p> It 's past time to fight their war and defeat them on their turf , which thankfully is not in the frigid glaciers of Greenland .
