<h> AP News Summary at 12:49 a.m . EST <p> Jimmy Carter is being mourned in his tiny hometown and around the world <p> PLAINS , Ga . ( AP ) -- Tributes to former President Jimmy Carter are pouring in from his small hometown of Plains , Georgia , and around the world . In Plains , black ribbons are hung alongside U.S. flags , as residents mourn the 39th president who died Sunday at the age of 100 . They are remembering Carter as " Mr. Jimmy , " the approachable neighbor who was friendly and approachable . But in Washington , at the United Nations and abroad , Carter 's status as a global figure is on display . President Joe Biden has set Jan. 9 as a day of mourning . Federal offices will be closed for Carter 's state funeral . And the U.N . Security Council praised Carter for his diplomatic and international peace efforts as president and after his one White House term . <p> Jimmy Carter sought to expand democracy worldwide long after he left the White House <p> HARARE , Zimbabwe ( AP ) -- Jimmy Carter helped expand democracy around the world long after he left the White House . His efforts gave rise to the Carter Center , which promotes fair elections as a vehicle for peace . It has monitored 125 elections in 40 countries and three tribal nations since it first started the work in 1989 . David Carroll is head of the center 's democracy program . He says the former president had moral authority and credibility as someone who had both won and lost elections . That was essential to the trust people placed in him . Carter died Sunday at 100 . <p> AP WAS THERE : Carter announces Middle East peace agreement <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- One of Jimmy Carter 's crowning achievements as president was the Camp David talks that would deliver Israel 's first peace agreement with an Arab nation and make Nobel Peace Prize winners of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin . The Associated Press is republishing its story on Carter 's announcement that the talks had succeeded in a " framework for peace " in the Middle East . The AP 's Barry Schweid reported that Begin said Carter worked harder than the Israelis ' " forefathers did in building the pyramids of Egypt . " Schweid wrote that " the gentle reference to the Biblical period of Jewish slavery drew appreciative chuckles from the dignitaries on hand . " <p> Middle East latest : Israel intercepts Houthi missile fired from Yemen <p> Israel 's military says it intercepted a missile fired toward the country by Yemen 's Houthi rebels . The attack set off sirens late Monday in central areas of Israel , including Tel Aviv . The Houthis have been firing drones and missiles at Israel as well as attacking shipping in the Red Sea corridor -- attacks they say wo n't stop until Israel agrees to a ceasefire in the Gaza Strip . The Israel-Hamas war in Gaza has seen intensified Israeli operations targeting Palestinian hospitals in recent days in the largely isolated north , where a 3-month-old offensive by Israeli forces has cut off nearly all medical or other aid . <p> South Korea to inspect Boeing aircraft as it struggles to find cause of plane crash that killed 179 <p> SEOUL , South Korea ( AP ) -- South Korean officials plan to conduct safety inspections of all Boeing 737-800 aircraft operated by the country 's airlines , as they struggle to determine what caused a weekend plane crash that killed 179 people . Acting President Choi Sang-mok also instructed authorities on Monday to conduct an emergency review of the country 's aircraft operation systems . The plane operated by South Korean budget airline Jeju Air skidded off a runway at Muan International Airport , slammed into a concrete fence and burst into a fireball . All but two of the 181 people aboard were killed . <p> Biden announces nearly $2.5 billion more in military aid for Ukraine <p> WASHINGTON ( AP ) -- President Joe Biden says the United States will send nearly $2.5 billion more in weapons to Ukraine . Biden 's administration is working quickly to spend all the money it has available to help Kyiv fight off Russia before President-elect Donald Trump takes office in three weeks . The package announced Monday includes $1.25 billion in presidential drawdown authority , which allows the military to pull existing stock from its shelves and gets weapons to the battlefield faster . The deal also puts more long-term weapons packages on contract through a separate Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative , which pays for longer-term weapons deliveries . Biden said all longer-term funds have now been spent and pledged to use the remaining drawdown money before leaving office . <p> CHISINAU , Moldova ( AP ) -- Moldovans are bracing for a difficult winter ahead as a looming energy shortage could leave them without enough energy . On Jan. 1 , Russia 's state-owned energy giant Gazprom is set to halt gas supplies to the European Union candidate country over an alleged $709 million debt for past supplies , a figure fiercely disputed by Moldova 's pro-Western government , which has accused Moscow of weaponizing energy to destabilize the country . The cessation will stop gas flowing to the Kuciurgan power plant , the country 's largest , which is situated in the separatist pro-Russian Transnistria region . The plant generates electricity that powers a significant portion of Moldova proper . <p> South Korean adoptees and families rocked by fraud allegations <p> Peg Reif was among more than 120 who contacted The Associated Press this fall , after a series of stories and a documentary made with Frontline exposed how South Korea created a baby pipeline , designed to ship children abroad as quickly as possible to meet Western demand . The reporting shook adoption communities around the world with details about how agencies competed for babies -- pressuring mothers , bribing hospitals , fabricating documents . Most who wrote were adoptees , but some were adoptive parents like Reif , horrified to learn they had supported this system . Reif fretted that her greatest fear might be true : had she adopted and raised a kidnapped child ? <p> Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt reach divorce settlement after 8 years <p> LOS ANGELES ( AP ) -- Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have reached a divorce settlement , bringing an apparent end to one of the longest and most contentious divorces in Hollywood history . Jolie 's attorney James Simon confirmed to The Associated Press on Monday that the couple had come to a deal . He says she is exhausted but relieved the ordeal is over . The two Oscar winners were among Hollywood 's most prominent couples for 12 years . She filed for divorce in 2016 after a private flight where she said he was abusive to her and their children . A judge declared the two divorced and single in 2019 , but they still had to work out the splitting of assets and child custody . <p> Times Square ball takes final test for New Year 's Eve <p> NEW YORK ( AP ) -- The crystal-covered ball that descends down a pole in Times Square to ring in the new year was taken for a test run , as New York City officials laid out their plans for the iconic New Year 's Eve event . Officials flipped a switch to light up the the dazzling geodesic sphere -- weighing almost 6 tons and featuring 2,688 crystal triangles -- which then successfully ran up and down a 139-foot pole atop the One Times Square skyscraper . Monday 's rehearsal was just one of many pre-ball drop promotional events . <p> Copyright 2024 The Associated Press . All rights reserved . This material may not be published , broadcast , rewritten or redistributed . <h> Watch this discussion.Stop watching this discussion . <h> ( 0 ) comments <h> Welcome to the discussion . <p> Keep it Clean . Please avoid obscene , vulgar , lewd , racist or sexually-oriented language.PLEASE TURN OFF YOUR CAPS LOCK.Do n't Threaten . Threats of harming another person will not be tolerated.Be Truthful . Do n't knowingly lie about anyone or anything.Be Nice . No racism , sexism or any sort of -ism that is degrading to another person.Be Proactive . Use the ' Report ' link on each comment to let us know of abusive posts.Share with Us . We 'd love to hear eyewitness accounts , the history behind an article .
