<h> Jerusalem weathered two rocket attacks after a period of relative quiet , but does this mark the start of a new era for the capital ? <p> This weekend has not been a quiet one for Jerusalem residents . The sudden targeting of Jerusalem from multiple fronts marks a troubling shift in the regional security landscape . <p> After months during which our capital enjoyed relative calm -- even as other areas faced continued threats -- Jerusalem found itself under attack from both the Houthis in Yemen and Hamas , all within a 24-hour period . <p> First , a rocket launched from Yemen set sirens off in Jerusalem , the Dead Sea , the southern West Bank , and the southern Negev a little after 2 a.m. on Saturday . The Houthi missile was intercepted by the Israel Air Force before it could cross into Israeli territory . <p> That attack came after a stream of late-night attacks by Yemen 's Houthis , one day after another , primarily aimed at central Israel , throughout the past week . Notably , one missile crashed into Jaffa last week , injuring approximately 16 people . <p> Then , a little after 4 p.m. that same day , rocket sirens sounded throughout Jerusalem due to rockets fired from the Gaza Strip . A map of everywhere sirens sounded in Israel early Saturday morning , December 28 , 2024. ( credit : screenshot ) <h> Out of the blue attack <p> Two rockets were launched from Beit Hanun toward Jerusalem and were successfully intercepted by the IAF . <p> The IDF has been consistent in its attacks in Gaza since shortly after the war broke out and , in recent weeks , in Yemen as well . That first attack by the Houthis showed that they were not deterred by Israel 's actions and were prepared to retaliate . <p> It does not do harm that reports have begun to pop up of Israel 's international allies -- namely , the US and the UK -- striking Houthi targets in northwest Yemen as well . <p> Hamas 's attack , however , was relatively out of the blue . Hamas 's power has been severely decreased by the IDF 's comprehensive operation in the Gaza Strip . <p> The attack came at the same time as some significant advancements in the Gaza Strip . The IDF , in coordination with the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) , began an operation on Friday that resulted in the arrest of over 240 terrorists in a targeted operation against Hamas terror infrastructure embedded within the Kamal Adwan Hospital in Jabalya , northern Gaza . <p> Before the operation , they coordinated the evacuation of 350 patients and staff members , with an additional 95 being moved to the Indonesian Hospital on the day of the operation . The IDF provided fuel , generators , and medical supplies to both facilities . <p> During the operation , special forces discovered weapons inside the hospital , and several terrorists who resisted arrest or attempted attacks were eliminated . Among those arrested was the hospital 's director and 15 individuals allegedly connected to the October 7 attack . The IDF reported no casualties among their forces . <p> The IDF emphasized that they maintained compliance with international law regarding medical facilities , despite Hamas 's military use of the hospital . <p> Then , IDF Arabic spokesperson Col. Avichay Adraee issued an urgent evacuation warning for Gazans in the northern Gaza area , just after the rocket siren in Jerusalem . <p> So even while the IDF is effectively disabling Hamas 's key infrastructure in the Gaza Strip , it still not only has the firepower but also the motivation to go so far as to attack Jerusalem , the capital of Israel -- and one of the holiest cities for Islam , too . <p> This development is particularly concerning as Jerusalem had stood as a relative island of stability during recent months of regional tension . <p> The breaking of this calm through a multifront assault represents more than just another security incident -- it potentially signals the opening of a new phase in the ongoing conflict , one where our enemies demonstrate both the capability and willingness to target a sort of no-man's-land when it comes to aerial action . <p> The implications extend far beyond the immediate security concerns . Such an escalation , if left unchecked , could embolden other hostile actors in the region to join in similar efforts .
