<h> 10 big stories from the Spokane area in 2024 <p> Tue. , Dec. 31 , 2024 " They put their heart and soul into their jobs here , " says Cody Griffin from Idaho Department of Lands as he hugs waitress Macy Barnes in front of the burned down Wolf Lodge Inn in Coeur d'Alene on Monday , September 2 , 2024 . Macy has worked there for six years . ( Kathy Plonka/The Spokesman-Review ) <p> Another year has come and gone , and 2024 was one for the history books . A consequential presidential election filled with twists and turns , the escalation of deadly conflict in Gaza , devastating hurricanes , the rapid expansion of commercial uses for artificial intelligence , the fall of the Syrian autocracy and the death of Jimmy Carter . <p> The year may not have been nearly as climactic for Spokane or the region , with a quieter local election season than 2023 and without the devastation wrought by that summer 's fires in Medical Lake and Elk , but news broke that could have profound impacts on the region in the year ahead . <p> In some cases , these stories were directly impacted by the big events of 2023 . Other major events wholly belonged to the year now coming to a close . <h> Cellphone ban at Spokane Public Schools <p> Sometimes it 's the small things that make big waves . <p> Spokane Public Schools was n't the first school district to ban cellphone use in classrooms in the area . That honor goes to the Reardan-Edwall School District . Still , the decision to ban cellphones at all of the Spokane school district 's 57 schools was a major change that helped spur conversations about technology , childhood and the seismic impact the pandemic had on attention spans and social dynamics in schools . <p> Staff at Salk and Flett middle schools were trailblazers for this reform , implementing the district 's first bans in 2023 , and were named Difference Makers by The Spokesman-Review for their groundbreaking efforts . <h> Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announces her retirement <p> By the May filing week deadline , more than a dozen people had thrown their hats in the ring , including some of the region 's most prominent Republicans . <p> The monthslong election generated numerous debates and highlighted rifts between and inside the local Republican and Democratic parties , as the open seat offered an opportunity to bring a fresh voice to a position that has changed hands only a handful of times in the past century . <p> County Treasurer Michael Baumgartner and former diplomat Carmela Conroy advanced after the August primary , pitting one of Spokane 's most experienced Republican politicians against a political newcomer who had been a career official in the U.S. State Department . Baumgartner sailed to victory in the November general election , winning by one of the largest margins in recent memory . <h> Spokane 's troubled downtown <p> The issues downtown Spokane is facing -- drug use , litter , homelessness -- are not new , nor are they unique to the Lilac City , but they have indisputably been one of the most common themes in the news this year , regardless of news outlet . <p> In some ways , the fact that these problems are n't new is what makes them so concerning : mayors change , as do governors and presidents , but the damage seems intractable and the solutions elusive . <p> Fentanyl continues to ravage the lives of many , killing hundreds last year while contributing to crime , particularly downtown , and a sense of unease among visitors and locals alike . Sleeping on the streets remains the miserable reality for hundreds as another winter bears down on Spokane . Some businesses have credited downtown blight for their closure . Though the downtown police precinct covers less than 2% of the city , most of the drug- and trespassing-related crime is reported from within their jurisdiction . <p> Despite changes this year in the legal and political landscape , many have expressed concern about downtown Spokane 's long term health , as evidenced by dour polling data released this fall by the business coalition Greater Spokane Incorporated . <h> Brown 's first year <p> Lisa Brown 's election as Spokane 's mayor was one of the region 's most significant events of 2023 , defeating one-term Mayor Nadine Woodward and ending a 12-year streak of conservative mayors in the city . <p> Much of that election centered on how the city should deal with the aforementioned problems facing the city , like homelessness and downtown blight . She made good on some campaign promises , including closing the **25;981;TOOLONG shelter on Trent Avenue that had housed as many as 500 people at a time and ramping up alternatives to law enforcement like behavioral health units in both the fire and police departments . <p> She has also faced criticism for her slow rollout of an alternative system of smaller decentralized shelters , with hundreds fewer beds available as winter arrives , and a perceived lack of enforcement of " quality of life " laws like homeless camping , though enforcement of some of those laws doubled this year . <p> With a new mayor also came a major shakeup in the city 's top-level administrative roles , with a new fire chief , police chief , city administrator , deputy city administrator and more . <p> For a time , the 16-year-old became a focal point for outrage at policies that allowed her to compete , just as transgender rights were reaching their peak as a major national political issue , as encapsulated by the political advertisement commissioned by President-elect Donald Trump : " Kamala is for they/them ; President Trump is for you . " <p> In December , the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association , which governs school sports in the state , proposed an amendment that would create a separate athletic program for transgender student -athletes to prevent them from playing in girls ' sports . <h> Elections roundup <p> Attention on the 2024 elections may have been largely focused on the presidential race , and the Spokane-area did n't see as much potential shakeup as it faced last November , but the issues on local ballots were n't insubstantial . <h> Merkel 's first year <p> Spokane Valley City Councilman Al Merkel has also faced his fair share of controversies this year , ruffling the feathers of his fellow council members and city staff in what he has argued has been a campaign to undermine him . <p> His antics have become somewhat legendary after only a year on the council . His iconic use of hunter-orange for his attire and campaign materials was adopted by some of his supporters , who have attended meetings with orange clothes of their own or orange armbands . During a failed run for state Senate this summer , Merkel was seen driving around in what was dubbed the " Merkmobile , " a small vehicle strapped with a loudspeaker that announced " Vote Al Merkel " on repeat . <p> By March , he had been warned to stay out of City Hall after an investigation alleged he has been displaying a pattern of " disrespectful and intimidating behavior " toward city staff . He accused the investigation of being politically motivated and possibly influenced by his Latino heritage . <p> In June , a private investigator alleged that Merkel 's behavior had n't started in City Hall , arguing he had engaged in similar harassment when he was an executive for a local detox center . Merkel accused the investigator of harassing his family . <p> Merkel was also accused of violating city policy and state public records law with his use of the social media platform NextDoor . On Dec. 19 , his council colleagues unanimously voted to censure him and remove him from a committee overseeing the use of money from the state 's prior lawsuits against opioid manufacturers and distributors . Merkel described the decision as " fundamentally flawed , biased " and a personal attack . <h> Racism mars Utah women 's basketball team 's tournament experience <p> Coeur d'Alene was in an uproar this spring after a team donor reported to police that the University of Utah women 's basketball team had suffered racist harassment on March 21 as they walked to a local restaurant . <p> Initial reports suggested that , as some 100 members of Utah athletics walked down Sherman Avenue , two lifted pickups passed by waving confederate flags and yelling racist slurs at the black players . <p> Some condemned the alleged treatment of the team , while others focused on the disparaging language used by donor Robert Moyer as he was reporting the incident to police , describing the offenders as " hillbilly " and " white trash " and , as some saw it , characterizing the region as racist . The alt-right publication Idaho Tribune and some conservative politicians heavily implied the entire incident was made up . <p> In the end , while suspects were identified and an 18-year-old initially admitted to yelling the N-word and sexual remarks at some of the team members , prosecutors stated that some of the details Moyer reported did n't match the evidence . Prosecutors characterized the conduct as " grotesque , " but declined to file charges , arguing that his conduct was protected by the First Amendment . <h> Pac-12 shakeups continue <p> It 's been another difficult year for what 's left of the Pac-12 , and while there are a few silver linings , they 've often been overshadowed by dark clouds . <p> Oregon State and Washington State were the only member schools who did not move to a different conference , and those that left have been only partially replaced by the new additions of Boise State , Colorado State , San Diego State , Fresno State , Utah State and Gonzaga . <p> Washington State University specifically has been hit hard by events this year as much of its top talent has departed , including former athletic director Pat Chun 's defection to the former Pac-12 member University of Washington and Wake Forest 's poaching of Coach Jake Dickert . University president Kirk Schulz is also set to retire this coming summer . <h> Icons burn <p> The region may have escaped the kind of devastating wildfires that ripped through Spokane County last year , but there were still smaller fires that destroyed several iconic pillars of their respective communities . <p> The Big Eddy , a remote inn and restaurant along the St. Joe River popular with summer recreationists , was destroyed by a fire in May . In July , a suspected arson leveled the Sandpoint Army Surplus store . And in September fire razed the Wolf Lodge Inn Steakhouse , long a staple of the Coeur d'Alene area , in the middle of Labor Day . <p> The Spokesman-Review Newspaper <p> Local journalism is essential . <p> Give directly to The Spokesman-Review 's Northwest Passages community forums series -- which helps to offset the costs of several reporter and editor positions at the newspaper -- by using the easy options below . Gifts processed in this system are not tax deductible , but are predominately used to help meet the local financial requirements needed to receive national matching-grant funds .
