<p> Protesters march past the U.S. Capitol on Dec. 17 , 2022 , during a rally and vigil in solidarity with protesters in Iran , in Washington Credit : Nathan Howard / AP <p> The BDN Opinion section operates independently and does not set news policies or contribute to reporting or editing articles elsewhere in the newspaper or on bangordailynews.com <p> Six months ago , at the end of Iran 's presidential election , I finished an article by speculating that the long-lived theocratic dictatorship in Iran may be a lot closer to its end than its beginning : " If you can plausibly say ' This can not go on forever , ' you are also saying ' Some day this will come to an end . ' " <p> That observation was triggered by the fact that the " reformist " presidential candidate , Masoud Pezeshkian , unexpectedly won the July election . The previous president had been killed in a helicopter crash , and the regime had fumbled in setting up a snap election to replace him . <p> Pezeshkian was the only token " moderate " in a field of four candidates , but he managed to make it into the last two for the second round -- and then , in the run-off vote , something remarkable happened . <p> Fewer than half the voters had bothered to show up for the first round of voting , because they assumed that the fix was in . Suddenly , however , the moderate candidate had a chance of winning -- and 7 million extra voters showed up for the second round and carried the " reformist " to victory . <p> It was only a small victory , because Pezeshkian is very timid ( otherwise he would n't have been allowed even to run ) , but more importantly because Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has been the real and absolute ruler of Iran ever since Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini died in 1989 . It just showed that the public would prefer somebody else . <p> That does n't count for much in a theocracy . It just allowed for a bit of speculation about the long-term future of the country . But a lot has happened in the Middle East since last July , and none of it has been good news for the Iranian regime . <p> First , the vaunted " axis of resistance " that Iran had created to keep Israel on the defensive and boost its own power has been largely dismantled in the past six months . <p> Hamas in the Gaza Strip has been mostly destroyed , the Hezbollah organization that dominated Lebanon is disabled and the recent overthrow of the Assad regime in Syria has eliminated Iran 's strongest supporter in the region . <p> That was a homegrown revolt by Sunni Islamists backed by Turkey , and it 's part of a broader decline of Shiite power in the region 's politics . Shiite Iran no longer has any allies in the Arab countries that border on Israel , and there is little chance that it can win them back . <p> Worse yet for Tehran , the tit-for-tat missile strikes between Iran and Israel over the past few months showed that Iran 's missiles for the most part can not get through , while the Israeli air force could and did destroy most of Iran 's air defenses . The country is virtually naked militarily . <p> Even more dangerous for the regime is the accelerating decline of the economy . It was undermined by decades of overspending abroad to spread its radical religious message , but equally by underinvestment at home since Iran 's attempts to sponsor revolutions elsewhere led to stringent international sanctions against it . <p> The damage has been extreme . Iran 's per capita gross domestic product in 1976 , a couple of years before the Islamist takeover , was $7,600 . Now it is only $5,700 , despite all the oil and gas . <p> Per capita GDP in next-door Turkey , similar in size , resources and population but with little gas or oil , was only $1,270 in 1976 . It is now $13,000 . Which one would you prefer ? <p> Iran has the world 's second-largest natural gas reserves and third-largest oil reserves , but the rot has gone so deep that it can not even keep the lights and the heat on . <p> There were frequent brief power outages last summer , but this winter the electricity is going off for days at a time . Factories , steel plants and the like are shutting down ; schools and universities are teaching remotely . A lot of people are unhappy or downright angry , and they know who to blame . <p> There have been three episodes of prolonged mass protests against the regime ( 2009 , 2019 and 2022 ) , and despite the cold winter weather another one could be on the way now . Or not ; these things are unpredictable . <p> But we can probably now say with some confidence : " Some day SOON this will come to an end . "
