<p> " Rosalynn was my equal partner in everything I ever accomplished . She gave me wise guidance and encouragement when I needed it , " Carter wrote in a heartfelt tribute to his wife after her death . " As long as Rosalynn was in the world , I always knew somebody loved and supported me . " <p> Carter 's grandson , Jason , said at the time that his grandfather 's life was " coming to an end . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> " ( My grandfather ) is doing OK , " he said during a speech honoring his grandmother at the Carter Center . " He has been in hospice , as you know , for almost a year and a half now , and he really is , I think , coming to the end that , as I 've said before , there 's a part of this faith journey that is so important to him , and there 's a part of that faith journey that you only can live at the very end and I think he has been there in that space . " <p> Jason Carter added that Rosalynn 's passing was " difficult " for his grandfather . But , he added , the " outpouring of love and support that we , as a family , received from people in this room and from the rest of the world was so remarkable and meaningful to us . And it really turned that whole process into a celebration . " <p> Carter was a peanut farmer , Navy officer and moderate Democrat who served as the 39th president from 1977 to 1981 . He became a global humanitarian after leaving office , and " decided to spend his remaining time at home with his family and receive hospice care instead of additional medical intervention , " The Carter Center said last year . On Sunday , they announced his death in a statement on the social media platform X. <p> The previous winter , in a moment when Carter was at his sickest and his family feared for his life , the former president is said to have refused hospital care so he could remain by Rosalynn 's side , historian Michael Beschloss told MSNBC following her passing . <p> " I am told that President Carter said , ' No , I want to get home , and be in bed with Rosalynn , and just sit holding hands , and that 's the way I 'd like to close my life , ' " Beschloss said , emphasizing the love the two shared and how their close partnership played a role in Carter 's presidency . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Carter was born on Oct. 1 , 1924 , in Plains , Georgia . He married Rosalynn Smith in 1946 , and they had four children -- Jack , James III " Chip " , Donnel and Amy -- as well as 12 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren . The Carters celebrated their 77th anniversary on July 7 , 2023 and held the record for the longest-wed presidential couple , overtaking the late President George H. W. Bush and his wife Barbara . <p> After returning home from military service in 1953 , Carter rose as an activist in the Democratic Party , opposing segregation and supporting the growing civil rights movement . <p> Carter served as the lesser-known Georgia governor and former state senator who defeated then-President Gerald Ford in the aftermath of the Vietnam War . He connected with many Americans who felt betrayed by former President Richard Nixon and the devastating effects of the war in Southeast Asia . <p> " If I ever lie to you , if I ever make a misleading statement , do n't vote for me . I would not deserve to be your president , " Carter said frequently during his campaign for president . <p> On his second day as president , Carter famously pardoned all Vietnam War draft evaders . Throughout the course of his presidency , Carter would have to govern amid Cold War pressures , racial tensions and unpredictable oil markets . <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> Carter was well known for his work in foreign policy , including brokering the Camp David Accords , a peace treaty signed by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin in 1978 . He also restored the Panama Canal back to Panama and signed the SALT II nuclear arms reduction treaty with Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev . <p> He designated millions of acres of land in Alaska as national parks and wildlife reserves . He also appointed a then-record number of women and Americans of color to federal posts and was best known for his promotion of civil rights attorney Ruth Bader Ginsburg to the country 's second-highest court . <p> Carter was one of the last Democratic presidents to gain widespread support from the South before the rise of his Republican opponent , Ronald Reagan . Carter lost much of his base after the 444-day hostage crisis in Iran culminated in a failed rescue mission in April 1980 , resulting in the deaths of eight Americans . <p> He served one term before losing to Reagan in 1980 . In the years after his loss , Carter dealt with a lack of trust from his Democratic colleagues and was treated as a punchline amongst Republicans . However , decades later , he reflected on his presidency with a sense of pride , telling the Associated Press that he did " protect our nation 's security and interests peacefully " and " enhance human rights here and abroad . " <p> " I 'm perfectly at ease with whatever comes , " he said in 2015 . " I 've had an exciting , adventurous and gratifying existence . " <p> ADVERTISEMENT <p> The loss of a second term ultimately brought about Carter 's decades of work in public health and human rights with The Carter Center , whose motto is " wage peace , fight disease , and build hope . " <p> The Carters opened the center in 1982 and their work was recognized in 2002 with the Nobel Peace Prize . While the former president spent most of his life in Plains , he traveled the world in his 80s and early 90s , including annual trips with Habitat for Humanity to build homes . Last year , the center celebrated 40 years of promoting democracy worldwide , including monitoring at least 113 elections in Africa , Latin America and Asia since 1989 . <p> The Carter Center also worked alongside the World Health Organization to ensure the near-eradication of the tropical disease known as Guinea worm . <p> The former president was concerned with the health of those who did not have access to safe drinking water and were contracting the disease . <p> " I would like to see Guinea worm completely eradicated before I die , " he said at a news conference in 2015 . " I 'd like for the last Guinea worm to die before I do . " <p> Due to the Carter Center 's work , the end of the destructive parasite is near . <p> " It 's an audacious and mind-boggling idea , " Emily Staub , the press liaison to health programs for the Carter Center told CNN when Carter entered hospice care . " A whole bunch of people with the Carter Center decided that they were going to eradicate a disease that has no vaccine , no immunity , no medication . It 's thousands of years old and has a one-year incubation . The odds are totally stacked against you . And the people that suffer from it speak thousands of different languages , and some have never had outsiders interact with them . <p> " President Carter just jumped in with two feet , " she said . <p> Carter in 2006 delivered the eulogy at the funeral of his close friend Coretta Scott King , the wife of Martin Luther King Jr. , and praised her for " breaking down the racial barriers that had separated us one from another for almost two centuries . " <p> After the news broke that Carter was entering hospice care last year , Bernice King , the youngest child of Coretta and Martin , said she was joining the nation in praying for him . <p> " Former President Carter 's love and compassion for all people set him apart as a leader , servant , and simply a great man striving to achieve a Beloved Community , " she wrote . " We are praying that you feel God 's grace , mercy , and love as well as the love of your family , The King Center , and the world that you have so graciously served . " <p> We are praying that you feel God 's grace , mercy , and love as well as the love of your family , The King Center , and the world that you have so graciously served . ( 3/3 ) <p> " I 've had the good fortune to meet many presidents , kings , Nobel Peace Prize winners and truly impressive people . Few are as truly good as Jimmy Carter , who at age 98 is now entering hospice , " wrote New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristoff . " He leaves this planet so much better than he found it . A great , great , great man . " <p> I 've had the good fortune to meet many presidents , kings , Nobel Peace Prize winners and truly impressive people . Few are as truly good as Jimmy Carter , who at age 98 is now entering hospice . He leaves this planet so much better than he found it . A great , great , great man . https : //t.co/x2SLzicmFj <p> Kai Bird , the former president 's biographer , wrote in a guest essay for The Times that Carter " was not what you think . " <p> " Jimmy Carter was probably the most intelligent , hard-working and decent man to have occupied the Oval Office in the 20th century , " Bird wrote . " A Southern liberal , he knew racism was the nation 's original sin . He was a progressive on the issue of race , declaring in his first address as Georgia 's governor , in 1971 , that ' the time for racial discrimination is over , ' to the extreme discomfort of many Americans , including a good number of his fellow Southerners . " <p> Bird also reflected on Carter 's post-presidential life , writing , " Some of his controversial decisions , at home and abroad , were just as consequential . He took Egypt off the battlefield for Israel , but he always insisted that Israel was also obligated to suspend building new settlements in the West Bank and allow the Palestinians a measure of self-rule . " <p> After the release of his 2006 New York Times bestselling book " Palestine : Peace Not Apartheid , " Carter gave a radio interview in which he described apartheid to be the " forced separation of two peoples in the same territory with one of the groups dominating or controlling the other , " and claimed that Israel 's policies resulted in apartheid worse than South Africa 's . <p> " When Israel does occupy this territory deep within the West Bank , and connects the 200-or-so settlements with each other , with a road , and then prohibits the Palestinians from using that road , or in many cases even crossing the road , this perpetrates even worse instances of apartness , or apartheid , than we witnessed even in South Africa , " Carter said . <p> While the book and his subsequent interviews generated controversy , including some accusing him of antisemitism , Carter continued to stand up for his beliefs in racial equality . " The hope is that my book will at least stimulate a debate , which has not existed in this country . There 's never been any debate on this issue , of any significance , " he said . <p> " He was not afraid to warn everyone that Israel was taking a wrong turn on the road to apartheid , " Bird wrote . " In or out of the White House , Mr. Carter devoted his life to solving problems , like an engineer , by paying attention to the minutiae of a complicated world . " <p> The Carter Center carried on its founder 's voracious criticism of Israel 's treatment of Palestinians in the wake of Israel 's ongoing bombardment of Gaza , citing his Nobel Peace Prize speech in their call for a ceasefire in the city , the return of the hostages seized during Hamas ' deadly attack and the reinstatement of services and resources to the besieged territory . <p> " In his 2002 Nobel Peace Prize lecture , our founder , former U.S. President Jimmy Carter , said , ' We will not learn to live together in peace by killing each other 's children , ' " the center wrote in a statement . " His words resonate with us today more than ever as the Israel-Hamas conflict enters a new and even more dangerous phase . " <p> " Carter is widely considered a better man than he was a president , " The Independent noted in 2009 -- a sentiment widely shared by many Americans . <p> President Carter 's dedication to making the world a better place has had a lasting impact on countless lives through the @CarterCenter . Thank you Pres. Carter for your decades of leadership , service , &amp; wisdom -- the future is brighter because of your work https : //t.co/MF0M2w4WNC <p> Reverend William J. Barber II reflected on Carter 's legacy through a theological lens . <p> " President Jimmy Carter 's leadership &amp; moral commitment were so strong that some tried to undermine his legacy by calling him weak , " he wrote on Twitter . " The so-called religious right said they wanted a Christian President , but Carter was one , &amp; they stood against him -- exposing their hypocrisy . Before Obama , Jimmy Carter broke through the Southern strategy . " <p> " Carter walked in the halls of power &amp; never lost his humanity . He never let power and money change him , " he added . " As he transitions to life evermore , I pray we forever learn from the model of leadership he showed us as President &amp; , more importantly , as a person . " <p> Carter walked in the halls of power &amp; never lost his humanity . He never let power and money change him . As he transitions to life evermore , I pray we forever learn from the model of leadership he showed us as President &amp; , more importantly , as a person . <p> Residents of Plains , Georgia remember Carter fondly for his " small-town boy " demeanor . He was known to greet everyone he came in contact with , including in one instance every passenger on a commercial flight he took . <p> " President Carter 's very unique , " Millard Simmons , a lifelong resident of Plains , told the Augusta Chronicle . " President Carter could have lived anywhere in the world he wanted to live , but he wanted to come back to a place that I think he loves ; I know he loves . " <p> Local pastor Tony Lowden spent time with the former president in his last few days and told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that Carter has " given us so much . " <p> Carter was an integral figure in the local community and was committed to diversity and inclusion within the church . After the Southern Baptist Union announced in 2000 that they would no longer allow women to become pastors , the former president renounced his membership . <p> " I 'm familiar with the verses they have quoted about wives being subjugated to their husbands , " he told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution in 2000 . " In my opinion , this is a distortion of the meaning of Scripture . I personally feel the Bible says all people are equal in the eyes of God . I personally feel that women should play an absolutely equal role in service of Christ in the church . " <p> Lowden said he looked to Carter for guidance in the aftermath of George Floyd 's murder in 2020 . " He gave me better advice than anyone could have , " Lowden told the outlet . " He told me not to hold back with my advice , even if it 's tough . Tell the truth . You 're not trying to win an election -- you 're trying to save America . " <p> The two had a rule each time they saw each other for prayer sessions or private conversations : Never say goodbye . <p> Instead , Lowden told Carter three things : I love you , I 'll see you again -- and there 's nothing you can do about it . <h> Recommended Stories <p> Here 's a look back , through photos , at the inspirational life of 39th U.S. President Jimmy Carter , encapsulating his beloved birthplace of Plains , Ga. , his rise to the White House , his presidential years and his humanitarian life post-White House .
