<p> Biden associates now say that the outgoing president regrets dropping out of the race and believes he could have beaten President-elect Donald Trump . <p> Unless the 22nd Amendment is soon repealed , one thing Biden will always be able to say is that he is the only politician who has ever beaten Trump in a national election . While the Democratic sample size is small , Trump has defeated upwards of two dozen Republicans , including some of the party 's top political talent . <p> Both times Biden was dissuaded by Democratic leaders from seeking the presidency , deferring to Hillary Clinton in 2016 and then passing the baton to Harris this year , Trump won the White House . <p> It is therefore not surprising that Biden , who has been actively campaigning for president since at least 1987 before finally winning the office in 2020 , would have second thoughts . <p> " Biden and some of his aides still believe he should have stayed in the race , despite the rocky debate performance and low poll numbers that prompted Democrats to pressure him to drop out , " the Washington Post reported . " Biden and these aides have told people in recent days that he could have defeated Trump , according to people familiar with their comments , who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private conversations . Aides say the president has been careful not to place blame on Harris or her campaign . " <p> Concerns about Harris 's electability factored into the weeks of limbo between Biden 's disastrous June 27 debate performance and his July 21 withdrawal from the race . Biden nevertheless immediately threw his support behind his vice president , thwarting Democratic detractors who had hoped for a more competitive process to replace him as the nominee . The primaries were already over and Biden had won nearly all of them . <p> Biden would likely have outperformed Harris among private sector union members . Both the Teamsters and the International Association of Firefighters declined to endorse a presidential candidate this year . Polls of the rank and file showed they would have backed Biden but preferred Trump to Harris . <p> Teamsters officials later complained that Harris , who would go on to lose all seven battleground states , was arrogant in her dealings with them . <p> " And her declaration of the way out was , ' I 'm going to win with you or without you , ' ' Teamers President Sean O'Brien told Tucker Carlson . O'Brien said he called former Labor Secretary Marty Walsh , now head of the NHL Players ' Association , and asked , " Excuse my French . Who does this f***ing lady think she is ? " <p> It is also likely that Biden would have been less reliant on celebrity endorsements than Harris was , with the question of whether Beyonce would perform at one of the vice president 's events becoming a recurring disappointment of her campaign . <p> At the same time , Biden would have had an even bigger problem turning out younger and nonwhite voters than Harris did . As far back as 2022 , a New York Times/Siena College poll found that 94% of Democrats under the age of 30 preferred a different nominee . <p> " I 'm just going to come out and say it : I want younger blood , " a 38-year-old preschool teacher in northern Michigan told the outlet . " I am so tired of all old people running our country . I do n't want someone knocking on death 's door . " <p> Biden would have dealt with the same splits over Gaza that helped cost Harris Michigan and contributed to why she did not choose Gov . Josh Shapiro ( D-PA ) as her running mate . He might have received a lower percentage of the black and Hispanic vote than Harris did . <p> The Biden campaign would have been run by most of the same people who oversaw Harris 's , sans some old Barack Obama hands . The Harris campaign remained headquartered in Wilmington , Delaware , because it was largely inherited from Biden . The president would have leaned even more heavily into the democracy protection themes that proved ineffective and would probably have remained more defensive about the economy , which exit polls showed was the top issue . <p> " Then we find out when the Biden campaign becomes the Harris campaign , that the Biden campaign 's own internal polling , at the time when they were telling us he was the strongest candidate , showed that Donald Trump was going to win 400 electoral votes , " Pod Save America host and Obama alumnus Jon Favreau said in November . <p> While Biden was behind by just 3.1 points nationally in the RealClearPolitics polling average when he dropped out , some public and private polls showed Trump 's lead more than twice that . <p> The final results in Virginia , Minnesota , New Hampshire , New Mexico , and New Jersey were all close enough with Harris as the nominee to suggest Biden could have lost those states . Biden was also less competitive in the Sun Belt states and could have lost Arizona or Nevada by a big enough margin to change the outcome of their Senate races . <p> Republicans won control of the Senate with 53 seats , but somewhat bigger Trump coattails could have flipped seats in Michigan and Wisconsin as well . <p> As Trump enters his second term , there will be a protracted debate over whether an underestimated Biden should have continued his campaign or his decision to run again approaching his 82nd birthday doomed any Democrat who would eventually replace him , especially Harris , who had trouble distancing herself from him . <p> But a lot of the Biden diehards will be people from his inner circle , coloring his legacy going forward .
