<h> The Wednesday incident saw the Palestine Action vandals riding the basket of cherry pickers while smashing and removing bricks from the wall of the UAV Engines Limited Lichfield District factory . <p> MEMBERS OF the Palestine Action Group gather in Sydney , in May . ' Pro-Palestine ' demonstrators are no longer able to make a moral distinction between justice and injustice , the writer says. ( photo credit : Alasdair Pal/Reuters ) <p> Five anti-Israel vandals were arrested on Christmas Day for attempting to tunnel through a Elbit Systems-linked UK factory wall using hammers and chisels , according to the Staffordshire Police and Palestine Action . <p> The Wednesday incident saw the Palestine Action vandals riding the basket of cherry pickers while smashing and removing bricks from the wall of the UAV Engines Limited Lichfield District factory , according to footage published by the activist group . The cherry picker 's cabs were barricaded with barbed wire and metal grates to prevent police from entering the vehicles . <p> In videos posted by Palestine Action on Instagram , police and security could be seen observing the vandals damage the Shenstone parish facility . Eventually , police managed to drag away the recalcitrant vandals . <p> The five vandals aged between 20 to 60 were released on bail , police said , investigations continued into alleged crimes including aggravated trespass , criminal damage to property , conspiring to destroy or damage property , and locking onto an object to cause serious disruption . <p> Palestine Action celebrated the release of their activists , sharing a video on Thursday of the suspects holding a Palestinian flag while chanting , " From the river to the sea , Palestine will be free , " and that " Palestine is Arab . " <p> The vandals targeted UAV Engines Limited because of its affiliation with Israeli defense firm Elbit . Several officers are listed on a UK government registry as having an Elbit correspondence address . <p> " With over a year of an escalation of genocide in Gaza and over 76 years of occupation , it 's up to ordinary people to take direct action to end our complicity , " Palestine Action wrote on social media on Wednesday . " No matter the amount of state repression , we will continue to resist for the Palestinian people . Ultimately , we will complete our mission of bringing an end to Elbit 's presence in Britain . " <p> One of the activists claimed that the UAVs were part of " the UK 's campaign " to bomb innocent people in Lebanon , Yemen , and Gaza . <h> Previous targeting of the site <p> This is not the first time the site has been targeted by anti-Israel activists . On November 25 , police said offers arrested two women suspected of a " lock-on " protest , after responding to calls stating that the entrance of the factory had been " being blocked off . " According to Palestine Action , two activists were arrested after they locked themselves into a car to blockade the facility gates . <p> On Friday , Bryn Higgs , 60 , arrived at North Staffordshire Justice Centre and was taken into custody for his protests at the same factory on July 31 . The Ullapool resident was charged with locking onto an object to cause serious disruption , conspiring to destroy or damage property , and criminal property damage . <p> Since 2020 , Palestine Action has engaged in a vandalism campaign against Israel-linked businesses and organizations to pressure companies to terminate their relationships with Israel .
