<h> The meaning of Chanukah : Showing the menorah without fear <h> Share this : <p> The festival of Chanukah commemorates the Maccabees ' victory over the Syrian tyrant Antiochus IV , who had conquered Jerusalem and seized the Temple in his efforts to Hellenize Judea . Resisting assimilation , the Maccabees defeated the Syrian army , and reclaiming the Temple , they kindled again its holy lamps with only a small cruse of oil . <p> According to the Talmud , Chanukah celebrates the miracle of that oil lasting eight days . But the greater significance remains the Jewish community 's refusal to bend and disappear , or to hide . <p> Last December , a congregant emailed me a photograph of her living room window decorated with an Israeli flag and a Chanukah menorah . " In my window like you said we 're supposed to do , " she wrote . " I was surprised that some Jews said they were afraid to put the menorah in the window , afraid somebody would smash it . But I am a Michigan Wolverine and we 're fearless . " <p> During those early weeks of Israel 's war in Gaza , as posters of the hostages were being torn down and Jews whose dress so identified them were being assaulted , the Jewish community awakened to a reality we should have anticipated because we had seen it before : how hatred of Israel is intertwined with hatred of Jews , anti-Zionism with antisemitism . While I admired this congregant 's courage , I understood why others were afraid . <p> A decade ago , the Jew-hatred we feared most came from the far right , from white nationalists and replacement theorists like Robert Bowers who murdered 11 at Pittsburgh 's Tree of Life Synagogue , and from Islamist extremists . <p> Until recently , the antisemitism of the left still operated primarily through boycotts , divestment , sanctions , and other insidious channels . It lurked beneath the surface in social exchanges and academic spaces . But this past year it burst into the open , intimidating and menacing , and claiming a right to free expression -- nowhere more than on college campuses . <p> The campus has long been home to activists who conflate the Palestinian-Israeli conflict with other liberation struggles and implicate Israel 's Jewish supporters in every societal injustice . <p> But for even longer , the academy has harbored educators who exploit the lectern as a pulpit to inveigh against Israel , some employing the grotesque antisemitism of Holocaust inversion characterizing Israel as the Third Reich , others demonizing Israel as a colonialist regime , as if Jewish families who have been living on the land for centuries , or those who arrived from displaced persons camps , had some other home to go back to . <p> But at some universities today , being a Jew on campus has become an act of courage , every walk to class a gauntlet of verbal bullying and physical harassment . According to an ADL/Hillel survey , 73% of Jewish students claim to have seen or experienced antisemitism in the aftermath of Hamas 's attack . Prior to Oct. 7 , 2023 , 64% said they had felt comfortable revealing their Jewish identity ; after Oct. 7 , only 39% did . <p> Through more history than less , Jews have faced danger . That is why the Talmudic instruction to display the Chanukah menorah is nuanced : " Our rabbis taught : it is incumbent to place the Chanukah lamp by the door of one 's house on the outside . If one dwells in an upper chamber , he places it at the window nearest the street . But in times of danger it is sufficient to place it on the table . " In other words , demonstrate your Jewish identity proudly , if it is safe . <p> For more than a year , that is the choice many Jews have been compelled to make : to wear their yarmulke in public , or cover it with a baseball cap ; to display their Star of David necklace , or tuck it inside their sweater ; to brave the walk to synagogue , or tune in online . <p> In 1993 , Billings , Montana endured a rash of white supremacist activity culminating in a December attack on a Jewish home , where a brick was thrown through a window with a menorah in it . The city responded in remarkable fashion . Residents of all faiths and of no faith at all placed pictures of Chanukah menorahs , published in the Billings Gazette for that purpose , in their windows . Together , the city beat back the forces of hate . <p> Fortunately , most Jews I know have responded like my proud congregant , the Michigan Wolverine . They have chosen not to be intimidated . And on Chanukah they will light the candles and place them in their windows for all to bear witness to the enduring miracle of Jewish survival . <p> But what a statement it would make for other New Yorkers to take a page out of the Billings Gazette and do it too !
