<p> Abu Saifullah , a key Lashkar-e-Taiba operative involved in multiple terror attacks in India , was killed in Pakistan 's Sindh province . He oversaw LeT operations in Nepal , recruiting cadres and providing logistical support . Saifullah , known for deploying jihadis in disguise , had close ties to LeT 's launch commander and was recently fundraising for Gaza . <p> Abu Saifullah <p> NEW DELHI : Abu Saifullah , a high-ranking Lashkar-e-Taiba operative and key recruiter , was shot dead by unidentified gunmen in Pakistan 's Sindh province early on Sunday , dealing a significant blow to the terror outfit , already reeling from the aftermath of Operation Sindoor.Saifullah had been overseeing the group 's operations in Nepal , and was a key plotter in multiple terrorist attacks in India in the early 2000s , including one on RSS headquarters in Nagpur in 2006 , the 2008 strike on a CRPF camp in UP 's Rampur and the attack on IISc in Bengaluru in 2005 . Saifullah 's signature tactic of deploying jihadis disguised in Army fatigues or police uniforms was a distinctive feature in all three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him <p> ' Saifullah confidante of LeT launch commander'Of late , Saifullah had been asked by ISI to restrict his movements and was also provided security cover . " However , today , he had stepped out of his house in the city of Matli when he was gunned down at a nearby intersection by unidentified armed assailants on a bike , " Pak police told the local press.Saifullah was a confidante of LeT 's launch commander Azam Cheema aka Babaji , sources said . Originally named Razaullah Nizamani , he was rechristened Abu Saifullah while being dispatched for terrorist activities in Kashmir . Upon his return , Lashkar 's top brass gave him the title ' Ghazi ' , a highly sought after label by jihadis . He was since known as Ghazi Abu Saifullah.Saifullah had nine aliases , including that of Vinod Kumar , and was in-charge of LeT 's Nepal module for a long time . " He was responsible for recruitment of cadres providing financial and logistics support and facilitating movement of LeT operatives across the Indo-Nepal border . He used the alias of Vinod while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to Pakistan after carrying out jihadi activities in India and started working with LeT 's chief accountant Yaqub and started fundraising for Jamaat-ud-Dawah and Lashkar . Gradually , he started overseeing recruitment at the launchpads as well , sources said.He had settled in Balochistan with his wife . Of late , he had been working closely with Hamas functionaries and fundraising for Gaza and Palestine.On June 1 , 2006 , three terrorists -- Afzal Ahmad Butt , Abu Al Kalam Alad and Usman Habib -- were killed while attempting to attack the RSS headquarters in Nagpur.The attack on a CRPF camp in Rampur on Jan 1 , 2008 , had resulted in the death of seven jawans of the paramilitary forces and a civilian.The attack on Indian Institute of Science in Bengaluru took place on Dec 28 , 2005 . Two-three terrorists in Army fatigues opened fire randomly , killing Manish Chander Puri , a retired professor , and injuring four others .
