<h> civil society demands GoSL for a principled stand on Gaza <p> It is unfortunate that some Western governments , which are very vocal about human rights violations elsewhere , have been silent on the question of human rights violations in Gaza . In the picture Egyptian paramedics transfer a wounded Palestinian on the Egyptian side of the Rafah border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt ( Pic AFP ) <p> South Africa 's initiative at the ICJ for Gaza is an encouraging step and should help promote access to international justice for crimes committed in Sri Lanka as well <p> Around forty civil society organisations in a statement have urged Sri Lankan government to take a principle stand on Gaza issue . The statement follows ; ' ' We theundersigned civil society organisations , networks and collectives support the application filed by South Africa , as a State party to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide , instituting proceedings against Israel before the International Court of Justice . The application includes provisional measures to require the State of Israel to " immediately suspend its military operations in and against Gaza . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africa requests the court to rule that " The Republic of South Africa and the State of Israel shall each , in accordance with their obligations under the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide , in relation to the Palestinian people , take all reasonable measures within their power to prevent genocide . " The first hearings on South Africa 's submission took place on the 11th and 12th of January 2024 before the International Court of Justice in the Hague . South Africa 's initiative at the ICJ for Gaza is an encouraging step and should help promote access to international justice for crimes committed in Sri Lanka as well . <p> The situation in Gaza has shocked the conscience of the world . Israel 's refusal to recognise the international calls for a ceasefire to address the humanitarian concerns leaves the people of Gaza in an extremely vulnerable state is chilling . Several governments and inter-governmental institutions such as the United States of America and The European Union have failed , refusing to uphold the human rights of the people of Gaza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some Western governments , which are very vocal about human rights violations elsewhere , have been silent on the question of human rights violations in Gaza . South Africa -- a member of the Global South -has shown courage in bringing this issue to the International Court of Justice , as did Gambia in bringing the desperate plight of the Rohingya people of Myanmar to the court . Sri Lanka is also part of the Global South , and our government 's support at the UN General Assembly , alongside 152 other states , for an " immediate , durable and sustained humanitarian truce " in Gaza is deserving of appreciation . However , despite this context , Sri Lanka has hastily moved to send 10,000 workers to Israel . It is most likely that these people , going as farm workers and construction workers , will be sent to work in buffer zones where there is conflict . Thus , the government is not only exploiting the desperation of economically vulnerable people with the promise of high wages but is sending them to high-risk areas where they are unlikely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good record in protecting migrant workers . Many migrant workers were left abandoned by our government during COVID and previous conflicts ( i.e. , during the Iraq invasion of Kuwait -1990 , the US invasion of Iraq -- 2014 and those trapped in Lebanon during the wars and economic collapse ) . Even more alarming is the government 's decision to send a ship to support the US-led military efforts to protect shipping in the Red Sea.This plunges Sri Lanka into a larger geopoliticalarmed conflict that we have little capacity to manage . Sri Lanka has been traditionally non-aligned . We have strong trading ties with the Middle East and all this will be jeopardised by this ill-conceived decision . Furthermore , it will cost Sri Lanka five hundred million rupeesa month while we are in the midst of an economic crisis with people facing high levels of malnutrition and a collapsing health sector . In this deeply disturbing context , we wish to support the active engagement of the Government of South Africa in seeking to halt the extreme crisis in Gaza . Sri Lanka should be associating itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the international application of universal human rights and international humanitarian law . We call on our government to : 1 . Adopt a principled approach to the crisis in Gaza , based on universal human rights and international humanitarian law ; 2 . Immediately re-consider its decision to engage in the armed conflict in the Red Sea ; 3 . Reconsider sending vulnerable migrant workers into this volatile conflict where they are being placed at serious risk ; 4 . On behalf of the people of Sri Lanka , express solidarity for the principled stand taken by South Africa before the International Court of Justice and support South Africa 's submission to the court , that the international community musttake all reasonable measures to prevent genocide. ' '
