@@19846978 <h> Bill to cut off aid to Palestinians passed by US committee <p> By <p> RREUTERS <p> Friday Aug 04 , 2017 <p> WASHINGTON : A US Senate committee approved a bill on Thursday that would cut off $300 million in annual US aid to the Palestinian Authority unless it stops making what lawmakers described as payments that reward violent crimes . <p> The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 17-4 for the measure , known as the Taylor Force Act , after a 29-year-old American military veteran who was reportedly stabbed while visiting Israel last year . <p> The bill , which must be approved by the full Senate and House of Representatives before becoming law , is intended to stop the Palestinian Authority from paying the stipends , which can reach $3,500 per month . <p> Force 's attacker was killed by Israeli police , but his killer 's family receives such a monthly payment . <p> " What has happened here will hopefully , when passed , prevent other people from having the same fate : an innocent person going about their activities in an innocent way , being murdered by someone who 's being incented to do that by their own government , " Senator Bob Corker , the committee 's Republican chairman and a co-sponsor of the bill , told a news conference . <p> Separately , 16 Republican and Democratic members of the committee wrote to Nikki Haley , the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations , to ask her to lead an international effort for similar action by other countries . <p> Force was a graduate student at Vanderbilt University in Corker 's home state , Tennessee , when he was killed . <p> Force 's parents live in South Carolina , the home state of Senator Lindsey Graham , the act 's other Republican co-sponsor . <p> Graham , who dubbed the payments " pay to slay , " is chairman of the Senate subcommittee that oversees foreign aid . <p> Palestinian officials have said they intend to continue the payments , which they see as support for relatives of those imprisoned by Israel for fighting against occupation or who have died in connection with that cause . <p> To win broader support , the original act was modified to take into account the need for humanitarian aid . It exempts assistance for the East Jerusalem Hospital Network , creates an escrow account to hold assistance funds and spells out steps the Palestinian Authority can take for aid to resume . <p> Corker said he was confident the bill would become law sometime in the coming months . Similar legislation has also been introduced in the House of Representatives . <p> Opponents of the bill have said they worry that cutting off economic aid to the Palestinians would increase poverty and instability in the West Bank and Gaza , fueling more violence . 
@@19848476 <h> add The News to homescreen <h> World <p> AFP <p> August 4 , 2017 <h> Share <p> Advertisement <h> Israeli army arrests Hamas lawmaker <p> RAMALLAH , Palestinian Territories : The Israeli army arrested a Hamas member of the Palestinian parliament at his home in the occupied West Bank overnight , the Palestinian Prisoners ' Club said on Friday . <p> Muhammed Abu Tir , 65 , was arrested in a raid on his home near Ramallah , the group said , only two months after he was released from a previous 17-month sentence . <p> Abu Tir is from east Jerusalem which he represents on the Palestinian Legislative Council . <p> Israel 's Shin Bet internal security agency described Abu Tir as one of the most senior Hamas operatives in the West Bank , noting that he spent more than 33 years in Israeli prisons for " military and administrative terror activity " . <p> He was arrested this time because of his " activity in Hamas operations and terror financing " , a Shin Bet statement read . <p> His arrest brings to 13 the number of people from the 132-member Palestinian Legislative Council currently jailed by Israel , according to the Palestinian rights group Addameer . <p> Israeli authorities consider the Islamist movement that has ruled the Gaza Strip since 2007 to be a terrorist group , as do the United States and European Union . <p> The Hamas-dominated parliament has not met since the Islamist movement took over the Gaza coastal enclave in June 2007 , ousting Fatah forces loyal to Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas . 
@@19865594 <h> Palestinian , Israeli girls camping for peace in US wilderness <p> SANTA FE : Liza Masri had learned as a young girl during the bloodiest days of the second intifada to fear the soldiers patrolling her neighborhood in the besieged West Bank city of Nablus . <p> But it was n't until after the uprising that her mistrust was most shockingly vindicated as she witnessed Israeli troops shooting dead her Palestinian neighbor as he smoked a cigarette on his balcony . <p> " It 's flashbacks I can remember ... the ambulance , the way they took him down the building , " the 21-year-old tells AFP , as if the intervening decade has suddenly melted away . " We were n't allowed into the streets . We were afraid they would kill us . It 's something I will always remember -- it 's so painful . " <p> Some years later , her neighbor 's bereaved daughter introduced Masri to " Creativity for Peace , " an organization in Santa Fe , New Mexico , that brings together Palestinian and Jewish Israeli girls in a bid to bridge the emotional fault lines created by 70 years of conflict . <p> Half a world away from the corridors of the United Nations , they get together at a ranch in the timbered foothills of the southern Rocky Mountains to hear for the first time the stories of enemies they have grown up learning to hate . <p> Since 2003 more than 200 girls of ages 15 to 17 have participated in the Creativity for Peace camp , where Masri has returned this year as a " young leader " after taking part in 2013 . <p> It was at the camp that she befriended Naama Shlomy , a Jewish Israeli who lives some 60 miles ( 100 kilometers ) south of Nablus , on the border with Gaza . <p> Trauma : Shlomy was three years old when her home town of Sderot was targeted by Hamas 's Qassam artillery rockets , the first of an estimated 8-10,000 to rain down on Israel from Gaza since 2002 . <p> Fewer than 30 Israeli civilians have been killed but the psychological trauma has been profound . <p> Almost half of Sderot middle schoolers surveyed for the Journal of Adolescent Health in 2008 showed signs of post-traumatic stress disorder , while high levels of miscarriage and depression are a fact of daily life . " It 's horrible , I ca n't describe it . It 's a trauma that 's in me . I 'll need to deal with it for the rest of my life , " Shlomy , 19 , tells AFP at an open day as the three-week summer camp . <p> When Hamas launches a rocket , an alarm sounds and the people of Sderot know they have 15 seconds to get to the nearest shelter , day or night . <p> " Each time you need to drop everything and go to the shelter . It 's just so stressful to keep worrying about your family all the time , and yourself , " says Shlomy . <p> Every year up to 20 girls -- half Jewish Israelis and half Palestinians from Israel , the West Bank and Gaza -- are invited to New Mexico by Creativity for Peace , which is funded privately , notwithstanding a 2015 US government grant . <p> The girls share their experiences of the Arab-Israeli conflict as part of a total of 40 hours of dialogue founded on the notion that " an enemy is a person whose story you have n't heard . " Using English as their common language , they go shopping , visit the movies , divvy up chores , share bedrooms and attend art therapy classes together . <p> Almost all have lost family and friends to violence and most will never have spoken to members of the opposite side before . <p> ' Baby steps ' : " We teach our young women that both sides are right and both sides are wrong . Their job is not to debate politics or go over history , but more to understand one another and find common ground , " says Dottie Indyke , executive director for the last 11 years . <p> The fact that both sides have suffered often comes as a revelation to the girls , although resentment can still run deep . Masri points to the 400,000 illegal Israeli settlers in the West Bank , and the numerous checkpoints that have choked Nablus , a thriving trading post since the days of the seventh century Umayyad Caliphate that now finds itself in penury . 
@@19899780 <h> Turmoil In Muslim World -- Indo-Israel Role In Fiasco <p> IF we look at the map of Middle East and beyond it appears that the Muslim world is in the grip of militancy and terrorism . While Syria , Yemen , Libya , Afghanistan and Iraq have become failed states and facing turmoil in shape of Armed Conflicts ; Turkey , Pakistan , Saudi Arabia , Egypt and even Iran are victims of Low Intensity Conflicts ( LIC ) . In the Muslim world , Sectarianism is also driving inter-state relations . Sectarian divisions on lines of Shia and Sunni have divided the Muslim world into two camps . The Sunni Arab states , Pakistan and Turkey are on Sunni side of regional fault line . While Shia Iran with Zaidi dominated Yemen , Iraq , Alawi dominated Syria and Lebanese based Hizbullah are on the Shia side . While Sunni and Shia States are embroiled in proxy wars , valuable Human and material resources of the Muslim world are facing the brunt of underdevelopment &amp; wasteful utilization due to these wars . Meanwhile taking advantage of the vaccum created by Muslim states due to the in-fighting and considering Muslim Civilization as a threat to Zionism and fundamental Hinduism , India and Israel who were in a hidden alliance earlier , are now working openly on their strategic goals against Muslims . As a result of this warming up of relations , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Israel from 04 to 06 July 2017 . Incidentally , this was first ever visit of Indian PM to Israel after establishing diplomatic relations with Zionist state in 1992 . The visit of Indian Prime Minister to Tel Aviv comes on the heels of Modi visit to United States at the end of June 2017 . As rare goodwill gesture , PM Modi was received by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the Airport in Tel Aviv . Not only the red carpet was rolled out for the visiting dignitary but PM Modi was also introduced to Mr Sharif , head of Ahmadiyya Sect and Sectary General of Bahai Sect at the airport . Head of Ahmadiyya Community during the interaction lauded the support extended to his community by PM Modi in his country . It may be recalled that both Ahmadiyya and Bahai Sects are seen as apostates by Islamic Scholars and declared as non Muslims in Pakistan and Iran respectively . Their presence at Tel Aviv 's airport to meet Modi is testimony to the fact that both Israel and India are using these sects to stir unrest to further their nefarious designs in Iran/Pakistan . To please Indian Prime Minister , Israeli government went a step further , whereby Baluchistan Liberation Army Flags and Placards saying " Baluchistan Welcomes You " were paraded prominently . To win hearts and minds of Jews across the world , Prime Minister Modi visited Israel ' s official Holocaust memorial , Yad Vashem . Modi described Yad Vashem as a " poignant reminder of unspeakable evil " . Modi spontaneously also visited the nearby grave of Zionist founding father , Theodor Herzl . Modi also emotionally embraced 11 years old Jewish boy Moshe Holtzberg , whose parents were killed during 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack . He told the boy that he would always be welcome in India . During the three days visit , both nations signed seven bilateral agreements , covering technology , agriculture and water &amp; space research . Israel and India also established a $40 million Industrial R&amp;D and Innovation Fund . The most prominent feature of the visit was that PM Modi did not mention ; Palestine once during his official and unofficial engagements . Similarly , he showed no desire to meet Palestinian President Mahmood , neither he also supported two states solution for Palestine ; the stance India has taken for decades . Before analyzing the objectivity of the visit and what both countries gained out of the visit , let us analyze why Nethan Yahu went out of the way to welcome PM Modi . It is opined that both leaders have developed very strong friendship over the years due to their common hatred for Muslims . Both leaders have butchered hundreds of Muslims in Gaza and Indian state of Gujrat and elsewhere on one pretext or the other . Both leaders have the ambition to dominate the Muslim world and crush ongoing freedom struggles in Palestine as well as Kashmir . Both Leaders also want to expand their existing frontiers by conquering more land of neighboring Muslim countries . Therefore , if we view the unfolding of events and engagements of Indian Prime Minister , it becomes evidently clear that the visit was aimed for sending multiple messages to Muslims around the world . First and foremost message was that Muslims must forget about liberation of Al Quds al Sharif and Palestine struggle for separate homeland is unlikely to materialize in future . It was also aimed to create a perception that Palestinians are losing support at all levels , therefore , they must accept Israel as reality and embrace themselves to bury their identity into Zionist state of Israel . For Iran there was a clear message that both India-Israel are now close friends . Iranian hostile attitude towards Tel Aviv is un-acceptable . Both countries have the leverages available in form of Bahai and other communities to stir unrest in Iran . Similarly both countries could use Sunni Baluch in Sistan to create troubles for Tehran . For Pakistan , the messages were ; that containing Pakistan or even dismembering it is the shared interest of both Tel Aviv and New Delhi ; Pakistani 's historic political and moral support to Palestinian and Kashmiri 's is un-acceptable ; and both countries would go to any extent to stir sectarian , extremist and political unrest in Pakistan . Similarly , another message was that CPEC is viewed with suspicion by both countries and all out efforts would be made by arming Baluch insurgents to derail the project . In nutshell the outcome of this visit has far reaching implications for Pakistan on strategic plane . It means that India would now use powerful Jewish lobby in US to pressurize Islamabad to give up its moral support to Kashmiri ongoing freedom struggle . By using Jewish card , Modi hopes that President Trump would also be made to support Indian tough approach towards Pakistan . The Modi plan includes limited military strikes against continuation of proxy war in Baluchistan and KPK while operating from Afghanistan and even getting Pakistan tagged as a state Sponsoring Terrorism at International Forums . While Middle East is facing upheaval and turmoil , Indo-Israel nexus duly backed by the US is real threat to the Muslim world . It is pertinent to mention that Indian diaspora working in oil rich GCC Countries is sending billions of dollars to India . The amount is used by New Delhi to pursue its ambitious military modernization and space programme by purchasing State of Art equipment from Israel . Meanwhile Chahbahar Port agreement with Iran provides India with direct access to Central Asia and beyond . On the other hand , Israel , by providing covert support to fundamentalists in Syria and Libya is prolonging ongoing civil wars in these countries . This state of affairs is unacceptable for the Muslim world . Pakistan and Iran have to take stock of the situation emerging out of Israel-India unholy alliance . Pakistan and Iran , while improving bilateral relations , must squeeze India economically by denuding its real motives about Muslims . In the same context , it is firmly believed that Indians expatriates , working in different sensitive entities of GCC Countries , Iran and Iraq , are involved in spying . These Non-resident Indians are passing sensitive information to Tel Aviv through New Delhi . Pakistan must use its diplomatic weight with GCC Countries to weed out personnel of Indian origin from sensitive organizations of GCC countries . Meanwhile Iran may also be asked to review its relations with India and ensure that Indians are not allowed to operate from Sistan Baluchistan . The Muslims world needs to stand united in these testing times . With the adversaries coming together and preparing for inflicting disruptive blows on the Muslim world , a correspondingly strong and visionary strategy needs to be carved . The immediate focus should be on carefully weeding out enemy elements in our own structures while in the medium to long term , we should be focusing on finding common grounds among ourselves and our potential allies in the region . The author is freelance journalist who can be contacted at email protected 
@@19912310 <h> add The News to homescreen <h> World <h> Share <h> Israel to permit Jerusalem Palestinians to visit Gaza <p> BAITUL MUQADDAS : Israel will allow Palestinian business executives from Jerusalem to visit the Gaza Strip for the first time in years , a defence ministry body said Tuesday . <p> COGAT , the Israeli agency that oversees civilian affairs in the occupied Palestinian territories , said it would allow in small numbers of businesspeople from annexed east Jerusalem looking to invest in the coastal territory . <p> Israel controls most access into and out of the Gaza Strip and has imposed a blockade on the Palestinian enclave for a decade . <p> But in an Arabic-language Facebook post late Monday , COGAT said it would allow in " businessmen and others who want to improve and strengthen the economy , infrastructure and humanitarian conditions in the Gaza Strip " . <p> It said up to 150 people would be permitted to enter at a time . <p> Israel and Hamas , the Islamist movement that runs Gaza , have fought three wars since 2008 . <p> Israel argues its blockade is necessary to control Hamas , but the United Nations and others warn the blockade amounts to collective punishment of the strip 's two million residents . <p> Egypt also has a border with Gaza which it has largely closed off in recent years . 
@@19942428 <p> Palestinian Hamas militants march during a military parade marking the 29th anniversary of the founding of the Hamas movement , in the northern of Gaza Strip December 8 , 2016 . REUTERS/Suhaib Salem <p> JERUSALEM : Israeli authorities have demolished three homes and sealed off a fourth of Palestinians who carried out attacks that killed a soldier and a policewoman , the army said on Thursday . <p> Israel regularly carries out such demolitions , which it says act as a deterrent , but human rights groups and Palestinians say they punish families for the actions of relatives . Two houses were demolished in Deir Abu Mashaal , near Ramallah in the occupied West Bank , and a third was sealed off , an army spokesperson said . <p> Village mayor Emad Zahran told AFP , Israeli soldiers entered the area around 2:00 am ( 2300 GMT Wednesday ) with bulldozers . On June 16 , three villagers carried out an attack outside Jerusalem 's Old City that killed a policewoman . According to police , two of the assailants opened fire at a group of officers who returned fire , and a third stabbed the border policewoman a short distance away before being shot . <p> All three attackers were killed . A home in the West Bank town of Silwad was also demolished in response to an April 6 car-ramming attack near the Jewish settlement of Ofra that killed an Israeli soldier . A wave of unrest that broke out in October 2015 has killed 293 Palestinians or Arab Israelis , 47 Israelis , two Americans , two Jordanians , an Eritrean , a Sudanese and a Briton , according to an AFP toll . <p> Israeli authorities say most of the Palestinians killed were carrying out knife , gun or car-ramming attacks . Others were shot dead during protests or clashes , while some were killed in Israeli air strikes on the Gaza Strip . The violence had greatly subsided but tension around the highly sensitive Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem saw a spike in July . 
@@19969654 <h> Gaza : A forgotten reality <p> Saman Zulfqar IN recent days Middle East has been in the limelight but not due to Palestinian issue that was once the main conflict in the Middle East but has become a forgotten reality . The Arab-Islamic Military Alliance and Qatar crises have overshadowed the plight of Gazans who have been suffering for more than a decade now . A recently published United Nations report claims that living conditions in Gaza are deteriorating faster than was anticipated in an earlier report in 2015 . ' Gaza has continued on its trajectory of de-development ' said Robert Piper , the UN Coordinator for Humanitarian Aid and Development Activities , talking about new report , ' Gaza -- 10 years later ' . He further added that from healthcare to unemployment , to energy , to access to water , Gaza 's 2 million people are seeing faster decline . Moreover , a sharp increase is noted in population growth of Gaza , while infrastructure and services have not been able to keep the pace . The problems of Gaza -- a 130 square mile strip of land on the Mediterranean , started accelerating since Hamas took over Gaza 10 years ago . Israel has maintained tight control over the movement of people and goods from all sides of Gaza , except 7 mile long border Gaza shares with Egypt and that is rarely open . Adding to these difficulties , Palestinian Authority recently decided to reduce the supply of electricity to put pressure on Hamas . It is worth noting that people of Gaza already get access to electricity only for two hours . Another issue of concern raised by UN report should draw attention of the international community . The report identifies that by the end of 2017 , Gaza 's only water aquifer would be depleted and damage could be irreversible due to salt water entering the aquifer -- exposing the people of Gaza to water borne illnesses . The question arises that who is responsible for all this ? And how for Gazans ' plights will remain unaddressed ? Palestinian issue has been ignored by Arab states and the resolution of Palestine issue does not seem on the priority agenda of any regional Arab state . Middle East is simmering in conflicts and crises -- the most recent has been intra-Arab crisis known as Qatar crisis . A month has passed but no end to the crisis can be anticipated . All efforts made to mediate between Qatar and the Gulf States have not succeeded so for , leaving things in a stalemate . What to talk of regional and extra-regional states ' interest in resolution of Palestine issue , the first thing that is needed is reconciliation between Hamas and Palestinian Authority . The internal unity would enable Palestinian to struggle for their just right to self-determination . In this regard , Russian role as an outside power can not be ignored . Russia despite having close relations with Hamas ' political rival Palestinian Authority , advocates the inclusion of Hamas in the Israeli Palestinian negotiations . In this regard , in the past , Russian foreign minister held talks with Khalid Mashaal , the exiled Hamas leader at Doha in 2015 and discussed the possibility of reconciliation between Hamas and Palestinian Authority . Russia welcomed the election of Ismail Haniyah , who replaced Khalid Mashaal as the head of movement 's political bureau , and praised Hamas ' new policy document issued after the election of new leader . Russia is the only major power that has cordial relations with Hamas that expects Russia , a member of International Quartet on Middle East , to play its part in breaking siege of Gaza imposed in 2006 . Russia also supports the formation of Palestinian state on the basis of United Nations Security Council ( UNSC ) resolutions . Russia considers the resumption of Palestinian-Israeli dialogue as a precondition for establishing two equal states to bring a lasting peace in the region . As regards China , it supports the establishment of the state of Palestine with full sovereignty on the basis of 1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital . China reiterated its traditional stance during a recent state visit of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to Beijing . China expressed its desire to hold a Palestinian-Israeli peace symposium to share ideas about resolution of Palestine issue . Contrary to Chinese and Russian stance , United States has become increasingly hostile towards Hamas and has recently added many Hamas leaders on the list of terrorists . President Donald Trump during his visit to Saudi Arabia placed Hamas and Hizbullah in the category of terrorists . If US wants to play role in Middle East peace process , it has to accept all parties and groups , representative of people so that sufferings of people could be reduced . -- The writer is a Researcher at Islamabad Policy Research Institute , a think-tank based in Islamabad . Email : email protected 
@@19974925 <h> Pictures of the day : August 12 , 2017 <p> The Gaza power plant is seen during sunset in the central Gaza Strip . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Bagir , a 5.7 metre-high giraffe , licks a spectator during the Giants of Africa show at the Krasnoyarsk State Circus , Russia . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> An Israeli soldier walks points his weapon toward Palestinian protesters during clashes in the West Bank village of Kofr Qadom near Nablus . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> A balloon flies over rooftops in Bristol during the Bristol International Balloon Fiesta in southwest England , Britain . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Blackcap hangs in the net during bird ringing in Vrhnika , Slovenia . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Boys cool themselves in a fountain during hot summer day in central Minsk , Belarus . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Flowers sway in the wind at the foot of a tree in the Tibetan village of Gaoshinao in Jiuzhaigou county , south of the epicentre of Tuesday 's earthquake , Sichuan province , China . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> Lightning is seen above buildings during a storm in central Shanghai , China . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> People crowd into a window to see a wild goat paraded through the town before being crowned King Puck for three days in Killorglin , Ireland , PHOTO : REUTERS <p> A ship rides on the tracks of the Katy slipway on the Elblag Canal in Katy , Poland . PHOTO : REUTERS <p> The waning gibbous moon rises behind the dome of the Church of the Assumption of Our Lady , commonly known as the Rotunda of Mosta , during week-long celebrations marking the feast of the Assumption of Our Lady in Mosta , Malta . PHOTO : REUTERS 
@@20055638 <h> Email <p> $15m will be pumped monthly from the next month to support of relief , humanitarian and development projects in Gaza . -- AFP/File <p> The United Arab Emirates ( UAE ) will provide $15 million a month to Gaza , a Palestinian politician said Thursday , as its rulers Hamas move closer to a UAE-based rival to Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas . <p> Mohammed Dahlan has been based in exile in the UAE since falling out with Abbas and being expelled from his Fatah movement . He has been improving relations with Hamas to the chagrin of the West Bank-based Abbas . <p> " Fifteen million dollars will be pumped monthly from the beginning of next month to the Palestinian Joint Liability Committee in support of relief , humanitarian and development projects in the Gaza Strip to alleviate their suffering , " Samir Al-Mashharawi , an ally of Dahlan , said in a statement . <p> The committee was established in the wake of agreements made between Dahlan and Hamas in early July in Cairo . <p> On Friday , Hamas leaders and Dahlan allies again met in Cairo to discuss easing the blockade of Gaza with Egyptian officials . The Rafah crossing from Egypt has been largely closed in recent years due to disputes between Hamas and Cairo . <p> Israel has maintained a crippling blockade on Gaza for a decade . Seeing his two longtime adversaries moving closer , Abbas has sought to weaken Hamas -- reducing electricity funding for the strip and cutting salaries of state employees there . <p> Hamas , considered a terrorist organisation by the United States , European Union and Israel , could benefit from increased international legitimacy if it were to formally share control with Dahlan. 
@@20065061 <h> UAE to fund $15m monthly to Gaza <p> The United Arab Emirates will provide $15 million a month to Gaza , a Palestinian politician said Thursday , as its rulers Hamas move closer to a UAE-based rival to Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas . Mohammed Dahlan has been based in exile in the UAE since falling out with Abbas and being expelled from his Fatah movement . " Fifteen million dollars will be pumped monthly from the beginning of next month to the Palestinian Joint Liability Committee in support of relief , humanitarian and development projects in the Gaza Strip to alleviate their suffering , " Samir Al-Mashharawi , an ally of Dahlan , said in a statement . The committee was established in the wake of agreements made between Dahlan and Hamas in early July in Cairo . Hamas , considered a terrorist organisation by the United States , European Union and Israel . -- AFP 
@@20080549 <h> add The News to homescreen <h> Opinion <h> Share <p> Advertisement <h> A crime of expression <p> Talal Samara fingered his prayer beads throughout the interview as he sat in his living room chair , bluish smoke curling upwards from his cigarette . He had recently had surgery , and the doctors had told him that under no circumstances was he allowed to smoke . But the stress of recent events had made this impossible . <p> Close to eighty years old , Talal lives in the village of Burkin , which is located not far from Nablus in the occupied West Bank . Two months earlier the Israeli army had uprooted twenty-four of his beloved olive trees to make way for pipes that would take water to a new Israeli settlement . " I planted them when I was a boy " , he told me . " Every time I look at them I think of my mother " . <p> But the trees were not the reason for this interview . I was here to talk to him about the events of two days earlier , when Israeli soldiers came to arrest his grandson . " He was always the best in his class . He was in his last year in high school and was planning to go to university next year . He wanted to study medicine . What will happen now ? " he asked , as he choked up . " What about his scholarships ? " <p> I asked him about the details of the arrest . " The soldiers came at 2:40 in the morning . There were fifty of them , in five jeeps , and they surrounded the house to prevent the possibility of an escape , " he told me . <p> On the surface , the arrest of the eighteen-year-old Osaid Abu Talal Samara resembled so many of the others that occur on a daily basis in the West Bank . Perhaps a soldier had accused him of throwing stones , or maybe he had been seen at a demonstration . <p> This , however , was different . When the soldiers came to arrest Osaid that night in their military gear , they did not tell him what crime he had committed , but a lawyer appointed to the case told the family the following day that he had been arrested because of a Facebook post . <p> When it comes to persecution by Israeli authorities for statements made on social media , Osaid is certainly not alone but rather part of a disturbing trend . According to Nadim Nashif , an expert with the Palestinian Policy Network , in the years 2015 and 2016 over 400 Palestinians were arrested for their online activity , while roughly 200 are currently involved in legal proceedings . As Nashif noted , the most well-known victim of this relatively new Israeli policy is the Palestinian poet Dareen Tatour , who was arrested in November of 2016 , because of three items she posted on Facebook and YouTube , including her poem , " Qawim ya sha'abi , qawimhum " ( Resist , my people , resist them ) . Tatour spent the first three months of her detention in prison , and she has since been transferred to house arrest as she awaits the completion of her trial . <p> Meanwhile , a report from The Arab Center for Social Media Advancement in February revealed that Jewish Israelis are posting hateful and racist content on social media at ever increasing rates . There were 675,000 ' inflammatory ' posts in 2016 against Arabs and Palestinians , a number that was more than twice as high as in the previous year . " Examples include ' rape all Arabs and throw them in the sea ' and ' a morning with lots of energy to slaughter Arabs ' " . Despite the high number of such posts , the report stated , " not a single case of incitement against an Israeli has been opened " . <p> The Israeli focus on social media originated in 2015 following a series of Palestinian knife attacks . In some cases , the attackers had written about their actions on Facebook prior to the events , and the Israeli authorities blamed the violence to a large extent on social media . <p> " Very soon it was discovered that in seven out of ten cases , the terrorists were influenced by incitement for violence and terror to which they were exposed in social media and the internet , " Israeli Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked said in February of 2017 . " The link between incitement and terror is a new and dangerous phenomenon with strategic significance . " Shaked is herself familiar with online incitement , having taken " to Facebook during the summer of 2014 to call for the destruction of Gaza , ' including its elderly and its women , its cities and its villages , its property and its infrastructure . ' " <p> This article has been excerpted from : ' Israel Continues Its Attack on Palestinian Freedom of Expression ' . 
@@20129665 <h> Innocent people the main victims of illegal arms trade <h> Iraq Body Count estimates that more than 50 percent of the war-related deaths -- following the 2003 Iraq invasion -- were civilians <p> THE war in Syria has now entered its sixth year and is becoming the world 's worst man-made disaster . The humanitarian calamity in Syria has affected millions of lives . More than half of Syria 's pre-war population has been forced to flee , including 6.3 million internally displaced persons and 5.1 million refugees living in refugee camps in the Middle East and in Europe . <p> It is also estimated that approximately 465,000 people have lost their lives because of this enduring conflict with no immediate end in sight . Arab civilians are also suffering in other major armed conflicts in the Middle East . <p> According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre , at least three million Iraqis have been displaced as a result of the civil strife in Iraq . Iraq Body Count estimates that more than 50 per cent of the war-related deaths - following the 2003 Iraq invasion - were civilians . In Yemen , the United Nations estimates that more than 10,000 civilians have perished from the fighting between Yemeni government forces and the Houthi rebels . On top of this , International Organisation for Migration ( IOM ) and UNHCR estimate that around three million Yemeni civilians have been displaced from their homes since the beginning of the conflict . The high civilian tolls witnessed in these conflicts reveal that civilians are increasingly bearing the burden of armed conflicts in the Arab region . <p> The theme of the 2017 World Humanitarian Day - Civilians caught in conflict are not a target - reaffirm the vision expressed in the May 10 , 2017 report of the United Nations Secretary-General on the protection of civilians in armed conflict calling for " collective action to strengthen the protection of civilians in armed conflict . " A " global protection crisis " has emerged - noted the Secretary General in the same report - owing to the rise of use of force of which civilians are ultimately the main victims . Since the end of World War II , it is estimated that between 60 to 90 per cent of war-related deaths are primarily among civilians . Civilians have become the primary casualties of war in the 21st century . <p> The irregular and black market arms trade have fuelled the rise of violent and extremist groups in numerous countries in the Arab region . The illicit arms trade has enabled terrorist groups to thrive in countries affected by conflict and violence . <p> Disturbing images of civilian infrastructure such as schools and hospitals being bombed in Palestine , in Syria and in Iraq show that civilian infrastructure is increasingly being targeted by belligerents . Although the Arms Trade Treaty sought to regulate the international arms trade , the flow of arms and weapons to violent and extremist groups continues to fuel bloody conflicts in the Arab region owing to the lack of ratification of the Treaty by the member states of the United Nations . <p> Warfare and armed conflicts are increasingly being fought in urban centres in the Arab region . It has brought the war closer to people . The pattern of modern warfare has changed . <p> Battles that were once fought in the unpopulated shores of Normandie and in the desert of El Alamein are now being fought in the urban centres of Gaza , Mosul , Baghdad and Aleppo affecting the lives of millions of civilians . The use of heavy weapons , so-called strategic bombardments and the use of modern technologies such as drones have increased the likelihood of inflicting collateral damage on civilians during armed conflicts . The disproportionate use of force has caused immense suffering leading to abuse and to killings of civilians . Collateral damage has emerged as an acceptable term to justify errors and the indiscriminate use of force . <p> In order to respond to the need to provide protection to civilians in armed conflict , the world has a moral responsibility to end the illegal trade of arms and weapons fuelling the growth of violent and extremist groups . States need to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty and comply with its provisions so as to end the illicit arms trade that is currently estimated to lie at around $10 billion per year . Weapons and arms should not end up in the hands of extremist groups such as Daesh that commit heinous and unscrupulous crimes on civilian populations in the Arab region . <p> I also appeal to the international community to ensure that all parties to conflict comply with their provisions to protect the lives of civilians in line with the provisions set forth in the Convention for the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War commonly known as the Fourth Geneva Convention . Respect for international law must guide the actions of belligerents in armed conflicts . Widespread crimes against humanity affecting civilians must be condemned uniformly by world leaders regardless of where they take place . Civilians should not bear the burden of the devastating consequences of military conflicts . 
@@20186358 <h> Email <p> JERUSALEM : White House adviser Jared Kushner on Thursday kicked off a renewed push by the Trump administration to restart Mideast peace talks amid signs of growing Palestinian impatience with a lack of progress so far . <p> Kushner , who is President Donald Trump 's son-in-law , was holding separate talks with the Israeli and Palestinian leaders , seeking to breathe life into a White House effort that appears to have gotten off to a slow start . That effort has been further complicated by domestic troubles for Trump , Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas . <p> After initially welcoming the election of Trump , the Palestinians have expressed increasing frustration with what they say is a failure by the US president to offer a clear vision for peace . Specifically , they are seeking a halt in Israeli settlement construction on occupied lands , and an American commitment to the establishment of an independent Palestinian state as part of a peace deal with Israel . <p> Kushner was meeting with Netanyahu in Jerusalem on Thursday afternoon , before heading to the West Bank city of Ramallah to meet Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas in the evening . <p> " We have a lot of things to talk about , how to advance peace , stability and security in our region , prosperity too , " Netanyahu said , standing next to Kushner . " I think that all of them are within our reach . " <p> Kushner said Trump is " very committed to achieving a solution here that will be able to bring prosperity and peace to all people in this area . " <p> Trump took office with hopes of forging what he calls the " ultimate deal " between Israelis and Palestinians . But he has since given few details on his vision for peace , managing to frustrate both sides . <p> On the campaign trail , Trump took a staunchly pro-Israel line . He promised to relocate the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem a move welcomed by Israel and opposed by the Palestinians and refused to endorse the Palestinian goal of independence . His platform played down the significance of Israeli settlements and he surrounded himself with a group of advisers with deep ties to the settlement movement , including Kushner . But since taking office , Trump decided not to move the embassy and has urged Israel to restrain settlement construction . Still , he has not come out in support of the two-state solution , a position supported by most of the international community and also his Republican and Democratic predecessors . <p> The atmosphere has been further complicated by troubles for all three leaders . Trump 's administration has become preoccupied with a series of domestic crises , most recently the fallout from the deadly racially charged violence in Charlottesville , Virginia , earlier this month . <p> Netanyahu , meanwhile , is facing a growing corruption investigation that could soon yield an indictment against him . <p> After years of on and off peace efforts that have yielded no progress , Abbas is deeply unpopular at home . He also is stuck in a bitter rivalry with the Islamic militant group Hamas , which seized the Gaza Strip from his forces a decade ago and is now pursuing a reconciliation deal with Mohammed Dahlan , a former Abbas ally who has turned into his political nemesis. 
@@20215254 <h> Gaza boy swimmer death puts spotlight on pollution crisis <p> GAZA CITY : The death of a little boy after swimming in polluted seawater has put the spotlight on Gaza 's pollution crisis and the human impact of desperate electricity shortages in the Palestinian enclave . <p> Mohammed al-Sayis , five , died late last month a few days after swimming in the sewage-polluted waters , with his brothers also hospitalised , his family and health ministry said . Dozens of others have been treated after swimming along the strip 's filthy Mediterranean coastline in the past two months , a ministry spokesman in Gaza said . <p> Pollution in Gaza is not a new phenomena -- a decade of a crippling Israeli blockade , coupled with three devastating wars with the Jewish state since 2008 , have left infrastructure falling apart . <p> But the worsening spat between the two leading Palestinian political blocs has exacerbated an already grim situation for the two million residents of the impoverished and densely-populated Gaza Strip . The Palestinian Authority in the West Bank has sought to squeeze the Islamist group Hamas which controls Gaza . In April , it reduced the amount of electricity they buy from Israel for Gaza , where the enclave 's sole power plant is barely operational . <p> The electricity shortage is so severe that all of Gaza 's sewage treatment facilities have ground to a halt in recent months , according to Al-Mezan Center for Human Rights . <p> As a result , sewage that was previously cleaned and pumped further out into the sea is being released along the coast untreated . <p> At least 100,000 cubic metres ( 3.5 million cubic feet ) of sewage is being pumped into the sea each day , according to the United Nations , which says more than two-thirds of the coastline is polluted . The UN has previously estimated the whole of Gaza will be uninhabitable by 2020 , but a recent report has said that catastrophe is likely to come sooner . <p> Ahmed Halas , an official in the environment agency , told AFP all of Gaza 's beaches are polluted to varying degrees and the health ministry advises against swimming altogether . It has also spread beyond Gaza -- last month a beach in southern Israel was temporarily closed after sewage from Gaza washed upstream . While the electricity crisis has caused the pollution that has ruined the beaches , it has also driven Gazans to take to the seaside as an escape . The enclave 's borders with Israel and Egypt are all but sealed , but it has a 40-kilometre ( 25-mile ) coastline stretching the length of the strip along the Mediterranean . <p> On the edge of a desert , temperatures can reach over 35 degrees Celsius ( 95 Fahrenheit ) in summer months . Long , power-free summer days in sweltering heat have seen children off school for the holidays nag their parents to go to the beach , tantalisingly close anywhere in tiny Gaza . There are few public pools to cool down , while many houses have little water . Around 95 percent of Gaza 's groundwater is unsuitable for human consumption . Yasser al-Shanti , head of the water authority in Gaza , told AFP that Gaza needed an extra 120 million litres ( 27 million gallons ) of water a year . <p> Those who can afford it pay to keep their families cool . <p> " The water in the house is unsuitable for drinking or showering . The sea water is polluted and mixed with sewage , " said Humam , 34 , as he poured water on his four children from a filtered water truck . <p> But the poorest in the enclave have no option . On Gaza 's beaches , hundreds of children still play in the sea on an average day , with thousands flocking there on Fridays , the Muslim day of rest . <p> Mohammed al-Sayis went swimming with his siblings in Sheikh Ijlin in southern Gaza after pressuring their father Ahmed to give them a breather from the summer heat . " It 's hot and humid and there is no power , water or fans in the house , " said his devastated father Ahmed . " The sea is our only outlet . " The children played in the water for several hours , but they soon showed signs of sickness . <p> " When we returned home in the evening , I noticed that Mohammed and his brothers were very ill and their condition quickly deteriorated , " he said . The children were rushed to hospital but Mohammed died 10 days later , while the others eventually recovered . According to the health ministry , his death was caused by poison ingested during the swim . 
@@20217362 <h> World <h> Share <h> Gaza gets its first proper cinema in three decades <p> GAZA CITY , Palestinian Territories : Several hundred Gazans will be able to go to the cinema on Saturday for the first time in more than 30 years , albeit for one night only . <p> The Samer Cinema in Gaza City , the oldest in the strip but closed for decades , will host a special screening of a film about Palestinians in Israeli prisons . <p> The Islamist Hamas has ruled Gaza for 10 years and there are currently no functioning cinemas in the Palestinian territory where two million people live in cramped conditions under an Israeli blockade . <p> Ghada Salmi , an organiser , told AFP the one-night showing was " symbolic " of wider efforts " to bring back the idea of cinema to Gaza " . <p> The movie theatre was built in 1944 but shut in the 1960s . <p> The enclave 's remaining cinemas closed in the late 1980s during the first Palestinian intifada , or uprising . <p> There was a fire at one cinema in 1987 which was widely thought to have been the work of Islamists who consider cinema ungodly . <p> " The rest of the cinemas were scared to show films after that , " Salmi said . <p> Ironically , according to French historian Jean-Pierre Filiu 's 2012 history of Gaza , the Muslim Brotherhood 's Gaza branch -- from which Hamas sprang -- held its founding conference at the Samer on the Islamic new year in 1946 . <p> Saturday 's film , " 10 Years " , tells the story of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails . <p> Salmi said it does not focus on the wider politics , instead telling a human story . The showing has the approval of Hamas . <p> Salmi said the screening , at which men and women are not expected to be separated , is a one-off , but she was hopeful it could lead to something wider in the future . 
@@20218472 <h> For one night only : Gaza 's first proper cinema in three decades <p> Palestinians attend the screening of ' 10 Years ' at Samer Cinema in Gaza City on August 26 , 2017 . AFP/Mahmud Hams <p> GAZA CITY : Several hundred Gazans went to the cinema on Saturday for the first time in more than 30 years , albeit for one night only . <p> The long-abandoned Samer Cinema in Gaza City , the oldest in the strip but closed for decades , hosted a special screening of a film about Palestinians in Israeli prisons . <p> About 300 people of both sexes attended , with men and women not segregated by gender and despite the lack of air conditioning on a hot and humid evening . <p> There are currently no functioning cinemas in the Palestinian territory where two million people live in cramped conditions under an Israeli blockade . <p> Ghada Salmi , an organiser , told AFP the one-night showing was " symbolic " of wider efforts " to bring back the idea of cinema to Gaza " . <p> Jawdat abu Ramadan , a member of the audience , said he wanted to see a permanent cinema in Gaza . " We need to live like humans , with cinemas , public spaces and parks , " he said . <p> The Samer Cinema was built in 1944 but shut in the 1960s . <p> The enclave 's remaining cinemas closed in the late 1980s during the first Palestinian intifada or uprising . <p> There was a fire at one cinema in 1987 that was widely thought to have been the work of extremists who consider cinema ungodly . <p> " The rest of the cinemas were scared to show films after that , " Salmi said . <p> Ironically , according to French historian Jean-Pierre Filiu 's 2012 history of Gaza , the Muslim Brotherhood 's Gaza branch -- from which Hamas sprang -- held its founding conference at the Samer on the Islamic new year in 1946 . <p> Ten Years , the feature-length film screened on Saturday , was made in Gaza with volunteer actors and tells the story of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails . <p> Salmi said it does not focus on the wider politics of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , telling a human story instead . <p> Saturday 's showing went ahead with the approval of Hamas . <p> Nermin Ziara , who appeared in the film , said she wanted to see a cinema open as " society needs to develop through films and documentaries " . <p> Ziara said she did not think the extremist rulers should or would block such moves . <p> " I do n't think there is a problem with opening a cinema with Hamas as it is a place of art , " she told AFP . " We as Palestinians need to have a large space for art . " 
@@20249996 <h> Hamas leader hails Iranian military support <p> Hamas chief in Gaza Yahya al-Sinwar pictured in the enclave 's southern city of Khan Yunis on July 22 , 2017. -- AFP <p> GAZA CITY , Palestinian Territories : The Gaza head of the Palestinian movement Hamas said on Monday it had increased its military capabilities thanks to newly improved relations with Iran . <p> In a rare meeting with a small number of journalists , Yahya al-Sinwar said Iran was " the biggest supporter " of Hamas 's military wing , the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades . <p> Hamas was " developing our military strength in order to liberate Palestine , " Sinwar said in response to an AFP question , but he also stressed that the movement did not seek war . <p> Hamas has run Gaza since 2007 and received Iranian financial and military support for years before it was reduced following a falling out over the Syrian civil war . <p> It was the first time Sinwar had spoken on record with international journalists since he became the organisation 's Gaza chief in February . <p> Sinwar said relations with Iran had improved in recent months , with a delegation visiting Tehran . <p> " The Iranian military support to Hamas and al-Qassam is strategic , " he added , saying the relationship had " become fantastic and returned to its former era " . <p> " Every day we build missiles and continue military training , " he added , saying that thousands of people are working " day and night " to prepare for the next conflict . <p> However , he stressed that the movement " does n't want a war and takes every effort to avoid a war " . <p> " At the same time we are not afraid of a war and are ready for it . " <p> Hamas has fought three wars with Israel since 2008 , most recently in 2014 . <h> Former top commander <p> The election of the 56-year-old in February was seen by analysts as Hamas 's military wing asserting power over the political one . <p> Prior to taking the job , he was a top commander in Qassam with decades of intelligence experience and a reputation as a fierce advocate of military struggle against Israel . <p> He also speaks Hebrew well , having spent 23 years in Israeli jails with four life sentences for " terrorist activities " . He was released in a prisoner swap in 2011 . <p> Sinwar has reached out both to old allies and to enemies as Hamas seeks to avoid regional isolation . <p> Relations with Iran had faltered over Syria , where Tehran backed President Bashar al-Assad while Hamas distanced themselves from his regime as he violently crushed an uprising . <p> However , Sinwar has sought to push previous tensions under the carpet and rebuild relations -- sending a high-level delegation to meet Iranian politicians . <p> At the same time he has made overtures to Mohammed Dahlan , a former ally of Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas turned rival , who is seen as close to the Egyptian government . <p> Palestinian Authority leader Abbas has in turn sought to squeeze Hamas by reducing the amount of electricity the PA paid for in Gaza , further worsening a power crisis there . Residents now receive only a few hours of mains electricity a day . <p> Sinwar called on Abbas to form a government of national unity with Hamas " for a year or two in preparation for holding presidential and legislative elections " . <p> Multiple attempts at reconciliation between Abbas 's Fatah movement and Hamas have failed . 
@@20262994 <h> add The News to homescreen <h> World <p> AFP <p> August 29 , 2017 <h> Share <p> Advertisement <h> UN chief in Ramallah says two-state solution can not be abandoned <p> RAMALLAH : UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said Tuesday a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict remained the only viable option as he made his first visit to the West Bank since taking office . <p> " I want to express very strongly the total commitment of the United Nations but my personal total commitment to do everything for a two-state solution to materialise , " he said . <p> " I have said several times there is no Plan B to a two-state solution . " <p> A two-state solution to the conflict has been the basis of international diplomacy since at least the early 1990s , but it has recently come under threat . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu heads what is seen as the most right-wing government in his country 's history , and has signalled he has no intention of evacuating settlements in the occupied West Bank . <p> Israeli settlements are built on land the Palestinians see as part of their future state . <p> Prominent members of Netanyahu 's government advocate annexing most of the West Bank , which would make an independent Palestinian state impossible . <p> US President Donald Trump has said he wants to reach the " ultimate deal " , but he himself has cast doubt on the two-state solution , saying he could support a single state if this meant peace . <p> Such statements deeply concern Palestinian leaders . <p> Guterres spoke Tuesday of Israeli settlements as a " major obstacle " to peace , while also noting that they are " illegal under international law " . <p> On Monday after meeting Netanyahu , he criticised settlements but also said Palestinians must condemn " terrorism " . <p> He said on Tuesday that " it is important to create conditions for leaders of all sides to appeal for calm , to avoid forms of incitement , for violence to settle down " . <p> Israeli leaders say Palestinian " incitement " against the Jewish state is a key reason why peace efforts have not advanced . <p> Peace efforts have been at a standstill since a US-led initiative collapsed in 2014 . <p> ' Scouting and listening ' Hamdallah called on Guterres to pressure Israel to comply with UN Security Council resolutions , including one in December condemning settlement activity that Netanyahu 's government has ignored . <p> Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas is currently visiting Turkey and was not expected to meet Guterres . <p> Guterres 's visit follows a US delegation 's talks with both Netanyahu and Abbas last week . The delegation was led by Trump 's son-in-law , Jared Kushner . <p> Trump aides have held a series of meetings with both sides , portraying them as hearing out concerns before deciding on a way forward . <p> The US president himself visited Israel and the Palestinian territories in May . <p> But Palestinian leaders have grown frustrated with the White House , after initially holding out hope that Trump could bring a fresh approach to peace efforts despite his pledges of staunch support for Israel . <p> They note the White House has not even clearly committed to a two-state solution to the conflict , in contrast to longstanding US policy . <p> Hamdallah on Tuesday said the Palestinian leadership was waiting for US officials to formulate a clear approach . <p> " What the US administration is saying is that they are still scouting and listening , " he said . <p> " But during the last round , ( Abbas ) brought up settlements and the two-state solution . What is the position of the US administration regarding these two topics ? <p> " So far , the US administration has not responded to these two questions , and promised they will be back in the next few weeks with clarifications and a work plan for the next phase . " <p> Netanyahu on Monday night , after meeting Guterres earlier in the day , again spoke of not removing settlements . <p> " No uprooting of settlements , " he said . <p> " It 's been proven that it does n't help peace . We uprooted settlements and what did we get ? We got rockets , " he added , referring to the 2005 Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and subsequent conflicts . 
@@20306554 <h> Trump will probably never get the Middle East peace deal he wants . But doubling down on Obama 's mistakes will only increase the risks of more Middle Eastern wars that he wishes to avoid <p> There are some mistakes for which the world never seems to stop paying . When the United States chose to let Syria slide into chaos while simultaneously seeking to end the isolation of Iran with a nuclear deal , President Barack Obama thought he was avoiding trouble and giving Iran a chance to " get right with the world . " But it turns out those blunders are still paying dividends for Iran , creating new dangers in the Middle East and threatening the hopes of the Trump administration . That was made clear this week when Yehya al-Sinwar , the leader of Hamas , announced in Gaza that the terror group had reconciled with Iran . <p> Prior to the outbreak of the Syrian civil war , Iran was Hamas ' main source of money and weapons and helped the terror group transform Gaza into a fortress bristling with rockets and missiles that rained terror on Israeli towns and cities . But the alliance between the two broke up during the Syrian war as Iran backed the Assad regime and Hamas backed Sunni rebels . Experts told us that the split was an inevitable result of the differences between the Sunnis of Hamas and Iranian Shiites . But while that may be a common divide in the Muslim world , it took a US president with the vanity to believe his illusions were more important than the facts on the ground - Obama - to bring them back together . <p> Though Obama repeatedly called for Bashar al-Assad 's ouster , he did nothing to aid those trying to make it a reality , especially when a little help would have gone a long way . He ultimately stood by as Russia and Iran intervened to save Assad . <p> By backing down on his " red line " warning on the use of chemical weapons and then punting responsibility for that issue to Russia ( which allowed Assad to continue using them ) , Obama also ensured that Syria would become a land bridge between Tehran and its Hezbollah auxiliaries in Lebanon . <p> Obama thought intervention would have been an obstacle to his hopes for a rapprochement with Tehran . Nor did he let Iran 's refusal to give up its nuclear program stop his push for a deal that vastly enriched the regime while only delaying its quest for a nuclear weapon . <p> The result : Iran is stronger and bolder than ever and building weapons factories in Lebanon and Syria . By reconciling with Hamas , it has the capacity to create what might be a three-front war against the Jewish state whenever it chooses to heat up the conflict . <p> With Iran behind it , Hamas , which has already re-armed and re-fortified Gaza since its 2014 war with Israel , is not only better able to re-start hostilities but also now more of a threat to its Fatah rivals in the West Bank . What does that mean for the United States ? <p> As we saw last week when his adviser/son-in-law Jared Kushner visited the region , President Trump still harbours hopes of brokering the " ultimate deal " between Israel and the Palestinians that eluded his predecessors . The administration continues to believe that the shared fears of Iran that caused Arab states like Egypt , Jordan and Saudi Arabia to make common cause with Israel will enable them to pressure the Palestinians to make peace . But as the Temple Mount crisis proved this summer , it 's the Palestinians who have the ability to push them away from the Israelis . And with Hamas back in its pocket , Iran has the ability to veto peace with the Jewish state they still vow to eliminate . <p> What can Trump do ? The options are limited but he must begin by realising that sticking to Obama 's decision to let the Russians and Iranians have Syria is a mistake . The same applies to listening to those who have so far persuaded him not to start the process of rolling back the nuclear deal . Trump will probably never get the Middle East peace deal he wants . <p> But doubling down on Obama 's mistakes will only increase the risks of more Middle Eastern wars that he wishes to avoid . The Iran-Hamas reunion is a warning that policies that strengthen Russia and its Iranian allies are blunders Israel and the West will keep paying for in blood and treasure . 
@@20308679 <h> UN chief calls for lifting of Gaza blockade <p> UN chief Antonio Guterres called for the blockade of Gaza to be lifted Wednesday as he visited the Palestinian enclave enduring " one of the most dramatic humanitarian crises " he had seen . The secretary-general 's comments came as he wrapped up his first visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories since taking office . Guterres said he had been struck by humanitarian conditions in the overcrowded and impoverished enclave , where an electricity crisis has worsened and clean water is lacking . " I am deeply moved to be in Gaza today , unfortunately to witness one of the most dramatic humanitarian crises that I 've seen in many years working as a humanitarian in the United Nations , " Guterres said . He later said it was " important to open the closures , " in a reference to Israel 's decade-long blockade of Gaza and its border with Egypt that has remained largely closed in recent years . Guterres made the comments at a school run by the UN agency for Palestinian refugees ( UNRWA ) in the northern Gaza Strip . Guterres also called for unity among the warring Palestinian factions -- Hamas , which rules Gaza , and Fatah , which rules parts of the West Bank . " The division only undermines the cause of the Palestinian people , " he said , adding that he had a dream to " come back to Gaza one day and to see Gaza as part of a Palestine state in peace and prosperity . " Guterres is on his first visit to the region since taking office at the beginning of the year . He has met with Israeli and Palestinian leaders aiming to encourage the resumption of peace talks . But he did not meet with Hamas officials in Gaza , who issued a demand he work to lift the Israeli-Egyptian blockade of the strip and save it from a humanitarian crisis . Hamas also demanded he approve relief and development programs and pressure Israel about the Palestinian prisoners it holds . Prior to arriving in Gaza , Guterres took a helicopter tour of the Israel-Gaza border with Israeli officials , visited a tunnel Hamas dug into Israel to carry out attacks and met local residents living along the volatile front . Egypt and Israel imposed a blockade on Gaza after the Hamas takeover that has crippled the local economy . -- AFP 
