@@19916064 <h> In Israel a rocket was fired <p> From the Gaza strip into Israel a rocket was fired , reports the Times of Israel , citing the Israeli military . <p> It is noted that there were no injuries . The projectile fell on open ground in the regional Council Hof Ashkelon . According to the representative of army of defense of Israel , the military investigating the area . <p> " Some time ago a shell hit an open area in the district ( city ed . ) Ashkelon . No casualties were reported , " - said the Israel defense forces . <p> Responsibility for the attacks Israel has traditionally imposes on the ruling in the enclave 's Islamist movement Hamas . On missile launches military usually respond with air strikes or artillery on the militants ' infrastructure . <h> Latest News <p> Psychologists have described what they 're looking at males when choosing a worthy wife.You pay attention to men ? Legs , chest , face ? Or do , choose a companion for the deeper qualities.1 . KindnessPsychologists argue that every guy on the level of genetics inherent desire to create a ... <p> Incredible toys that will appeal to even adult.Filipino artist Noel Cruz ( Noel Cruz ) , currently residing in the United States , turns ordinary dolls which are sold in any toy store , miniature doppelgangers of celebrities , which line up collectors . <p> Before the announcement of the Samsung Galaxy Note 8 there are only two weeks , and therefore it is not surprising that the Internet starts to sink under the wave of new details about this cell phone . Today , for example , someone posted real pictures of ... <p> Asia is a leading player in economical development of the World . Thus everything that happens in our region is bound to produce an impact on the rest of the planet . Our team is closely monitoring , translating and investigating news story for our readers . We are well informed in the regional and global news . We do our best to keep the pace of rapidly evolving World . Greetings from Singapore&amp;Bangkok. 
@@20025713 <h> Yulia Latynina : Putin is gone good luck <p> Here , in my opinion , something happened and Putin is gone good luck . Because here , in the first 15 years of the Putin presidency , in General , extremely lucky . And , not that the government behaves differently . <p> Show completely ... Remember businessman Kolesnikov , who tells us that in the first year of Putin 's rule , Putin wants to see his friend Nearby and ordered to establish a company " Metromed " , and the company , according to Kolesnikov , to operate in a way that she got the money from the oligarchs , 70% was spent on medical equipment , and the rest going on the construction of the Palace in Gelendzhik . <p> And , behold , all was well , took NTV , Khodorkovsky was arrested . Despite this , world leaders in 2005 , on the anniversary of victory gathered for the celebration of victory Day in Moscow . It was such a triumph for Putin . <p> By the way , tell us that then many of the European leaders were concerned about the fate of Khodorkovsky , and their assured and Khodorkovsky assured that all it will be 5 years probation , just to come . But Khodorkovsky said , " if you 're quiet " , as I understand it . <p> Leaders come , the verdict is transferred to the 2 weeks after the 9th of may and given 9 years . This style of communication with the West -- it was already drawn and he was probably of very silly books for a man named Robert green " 48 laws of power " , which says that the power law is kidok , the main thing -- cleverly to throw . Because every interaction with the leaders of the West , it was already regarded as a special operation " Deceived and cheated " , and each successful deception gave rise to confidence that , well , of course , the suckers can endure . <p> And they endured , they swallow . They swallowed the beating of Polish diplomats , they swallowed the riots in Estonia . Britain , by and large , swallowed the poisoning of Litvinenko . Swallowed Putin 's Munich speech . In Bucharest on the eve of war Russian-Georgian actually refused this ultimatum , exposed Putin , Georgia 's membership in NATO , there is thus unleashed Russian hands for war . And also Russian-Georgian war swallowed . After her was another excellent report Mrs. Heidi Tagliavini , stating that " Well , the Russians say that the war started , the Georgians , the Georgians say that the Russian war began , and where we do n't know " . <p> What did Barack Obama after this war ? He announced a " reset " of relations with Russia ( well , like , this is the United States really ruined that relationship ) . <p> Now , I remember some German diplomat me at social events explained that still in Europe we ca n't do without Russia , so we need to appease . And , accordingly , it is difficult to imagine a policy more enticing for the international bully . <p> And , here , it is the international luck then relied on one simple thing -- the economy and the rising price of oil . After all , the Russian economy is like a sieve , it is gushing with all holes and into private pockets . Question : " Can you carry water in a sieve ? " If in a sieve receives more than results . <p> Here , when the oil price was a hundred dollars , enough for all -- Rotenberg , Kovalchuk , office plankton . Rothenberg built castles , office plankton went to Turkey , and the crazy risks of any Russian business , which then was off again , crazy by the standards of the West margin . <p> And this was then support the business and intellectual elite . Kirill Serebrennikov calmly put performances on the budget money . Protests gathered 200 people . But the very bureaucratic elite that periodically talked about the worldwide conspiracy against Russia ... even then , after all , he said . They are children in London were trained , they apartments in Miami buy , the money they kept in Switzerland . In General , protested frivolous people , whose property was not . Incidentally , I completely agree that it makes them frivolous , since the Foundation of stability and a solid base of elite is the owner . <p> And all accepted the new rules of the game . They say it 's not very nice rules , but most importantly , rules . And , here , for any business rules is the most important . And for any businessman need to make money , not to change the regime . Exactly the same as the case of any officer to manage , and also not to try to change the mode . <p> This system has several amazing properties . First , it fundamentally was not a feedback mechanism . Indeed , note that any regime ( not necessarily democratic ) is trying to have some kind of feedback . Here , for example , Communist China , although it has elections , it 's making a special effort to understand what is happening in the regions . And now , state news Agency Xinhua , a news Agency plays a very interesting role , because people , Xinhua correspondents who sit in the provinces , they are , in fact , play a role not of those people who write publicly about what 's going on , and they play the role of such , the second internal counter-intelligence , which to the Central Committee of the party said about the most important things that happen in the province . And according to the real situation . <p> And , behold , the Putin regime feedback is pointedly absent , because any attempt to change things or to influence was seen as treason . Here was the motto : " do n't give in to pressure . " <p> Now , remember , son of the President of Karachay-Cherkessia at his dacha in the middle of the city centre and shot 7 people ? Pointedly , Putin then fired the President ( he was fired a few years later ) , because it would mean to succumb to the pressure . Then the people took the government House and the President of Sigal out of the window . <p> Or the story of Magnitsky , who rot in prison , a group of swindlers , which was surrounded by the Russian budget is 250 and 750 million dollars . No one was arrested . Why ? Because it would mean to give in to blackmail objectionable Browder . <p> That is , it turned out that the crimes of powerful people is a privilege , and , here , to complain about these crimes is rebellion . And oddly enough , this principle , indeed , then worked on the consolidation of the regime because , really , reasonable people understand that complaining is not productive , and thieves and robbers admresursa understood that where they will be able so to walk even as it is now , and was a loyal pillar of the regime . <p> In addition , a very cynical was this system until 2014 . It 's not ideology , it was a PR . But PR is different from the ideology that ideology -- it dictates to the Governor what to do , and PR does not dictate anything , it just justifies any action . <p> Here , you can talk about the suffering of the poor Russians in Estonia , and then Putin , on the spot , with Turkmenbashi signed a contract that gave 100 of thousands of Russians into slavery to one of the worst regimes that existed in Central Asia . But , the downside was not even the right of Gazprom to buy Turkmen gas , and the right is belonged to the offshorka , registered in the Romanian village of Csabdi with registered capital of 12 thousand people . <p> That is , the authorities denounced the bloody West and kept their accounts . And there 's the main ideologist of the regime , Vladislav Surkov , then , as you remember , wrote the novel " Okolonolya " that all reality is a phantasm , which is constructed by the PR in order to rake in the big bucks from clients . Well , you ca n't imagine Goebbels , who writes the same novel ? <p> -- Here , I repeat that it was in one simple word " luck " , because here the ancient Scandinavians was such a human quality -- luck . The man was lucky when he was fat or bald . And , of course , in this sense , Putin was a lucky man . And now , after the annexation of Crimea somehow this luck disappears . <p> Because look , everything that is brought before the favor , beginning to work against . For the Crimea wheeled sanctions . Well , then arranged the Donbass , in order to distract Europe from Crimea . Rolled new sanctions for the failure of the Minsk agreements . Now , when Putin explained that in Georgia we are not there , right ? Well , not " we 're there " , there , here , like this , the Abkhaz Abkhazian separatists and aircraft struck at Georgia when the Russian tanks were in Gori . Here , he honestly then believed . Then Ms. Heidi Tagliavini , I remember in my research , even dedicated an entire section to action , imagine the Abkhaz aviation . She had discussed whether the Abkhaz aviation the right to attack Georgia from the other side ? Ms. Tagliavini even wisely decided that there had not been the Abkhaz aviation . <p> Here , then believe about the Abkhazian aircraft , and now in the Donbass something is not believe about the tractor and the miners . Although , the same lady , Heidi Tagliavini , was on the Committee that signed the Minsk agreement . And about the " Boeing " that he was hit by a bloody response on a fighter the size of how many , 800 meters , also did not believe . <p> Then the Kremlin went to Syria . Also were absolutely brilliant idea : " Here we are , these Western suckers marked around the finger , say they are ready instead to deal with LIH , they will resalut , we for this case will achieve the lifting of sanctions , instead of Igil soak enemies of Assad , will make itself the decisive force in the middle East and let all the chocolate . " And the Fuckers just did n't want to negotiate , because sooner or later realized that the only way not to lose the Sharpie is not to sit with him at the table . <p> Then decided to intervene in American elections , again to give a feel of what we are is strong and tough . Hence , the result -- the new sanctions . <p> And , behold , all is the disappearance of the foreign good luck -- it 's based on what ? That money ran out , their was not enough . Machine-with money -- she started to choke even more in 2008 because then it was found , for example , that the United States produces more gas than Russia . And this gas in the domestic US market was worth in 2008 , cheaper than the Russian . That is , collapsed the whole model of oil and gas rents . Because it turned out that , in principle , impossible in the modern world to be a raw superpower , and can only be a raw materials appendage . <p> Here , some time in the Kremlin there to explain himself , that shale bubble will burst soon , that oil will cost $ 250 . But with shale gas came from shale oil , and bananas completely ran out . <p> Now , I ca n't even understand that , after all , was before the Crimea or the fall of oil prices ? And I think that at first , after all , was the fall in oil prices . Formally it was late , but I think just in the Kremlin understood that oil skiff and need something to distract people . <p> And , here , the PR-patriotism at this moment ran out , and started a patriotism , serious , solid , Donbass smelling . And the elite was this patriotism is not ready . Because , remember , even Timchenko publicly complained about sanctions which caused him terrible pain . The poor guy Timchenko , because , like every Russian patriot , the aircraft was registered in Finland . And he was under sanctions . The aircraft is now not in service ! It is impossible to maintain , he 's there , he ca n't fly , he ca n't even fly to Russia . Yes ? <p> And Putin is rumored to have said : " All refund " . He really has repaid . Here , see there " Plato " or the wonderful law , which returns to the persons targeted by the sanctions , that is , again read , people who are close enough to Putin , paid their 2014 taxes . <p> And here starts a new problem . Because previous income was due to oil and oil was a draw . And the present-at the expense of people 's skins . Because it turned out that " Plato " is not only 10 billion rubles for Rothenberg , it 's tens of thousands robbed of truckers . People -- their ruble-denominated incomes have fallen by 2-3 times , and then there 's Rotenberg . <p> And 10 billion rubles -- is seeds , funny money , which , actually , can be ignored and find them in some other place . But then the first news of people 's dissatisfaction came into effect what law ? The one I have already mentioned the corporate principle of " We will not bend down " . <p> Protests by truckers -- this was seen as such a blatant attempt of the people to influence the gods . And celestials do not bend . And instead cancel " Plato " , Putin says protests that the de truckers operate in the shadows and not paying taxes . <p> Well , I think it 's the truckers were pleased to hear that Rothenberg we have a clean , mirror-like , transparent , it is they , the truckers , the bastards , are they the chicken that drank water from the dam . <p> On the truck did not stop . Further , here the reduction of the budget pie . Everyone was trying of consumers to maintain their share , and began , first , the history of the type pressed Bashneft or there , a claim that Rosneft wheeled " System " . But the beginning of the story even more simple , which I already mentioned , just the defaults . <p> Here in Russia there appeared a new payments crisis of public companies ( the distance is about starting with the construction of Sochi ) , which fundamentally has a different nature from what happened in the 90-ies , because then there was no money in the budget . Now the money in the budget , state-owned companies get them , just once , here , then all of it disappears . While the share of state companies in the Russian GDP is 60% . <p> Here 's the question : how can there be an economy in which there is a privileged stratum of companies that can pay and can not pay the contractor ? <p> Again , it 's not just the economy , it 's also the case in support of the government , because , as I said , Putin 's support until 2014 based on a broad consensus of business elites . Now this business elite cover or sanctions , or lack of money . <p> And , of course , Yes , can be 85 , maybe a little less , maybe a little more of the population supports the regime . But the problem is that it is economically not active population . <p> -- And this failure to support the elite , the Kremlin has tried to compensate by creating a new elite of the bikers and crazy city . And then it turned out another main weakness of the regime , which , in fact , distinguishes Russia from the Gaza strip , which ( Gaza ) is , of course , the Kremlin would like from Russia new . <p> -- And now , of attempts to build alternative the elite of the city 's crazy -- they failed . There , neither " Surgeon " nor Russia , nor the Government , nor the grandmother who demands condom ban in his hometown , they were not elite , they became Antialias . They do , in General , contempt even among those who are absolutely loyal to the regime . And as I said , the breadth of coverage in the country is ridiculous to say , because when Natalia Poklonskaya after a months-long campaign under the unofficial patronage of the authorities , managed to gather a few hundred people standing up against " Matilda " , and Bulk , despite the fact that his people came out in support of the people , or rather , in support of its slogans , the people were beaten and arrested , managed to take to the streets hundreds of thousands of people in hundreds of cities across the country . Then , here , Russia is not Gaza . Because , you know , I was just talking about Dmitry Trubitsyn at the beginning of the transfer . Well , here in Gaza does not happen Dmitriev Trubitsyna , there are no corporate campuses , it does not happen anything at all . Russia is the largest country in Europe , there were brilliant poets , artists , musicians and scientists and they still are . We have an extensive cultural layer . Even in Stalin 's time , when that country was terror , after all , in this country propagated faith in progress , not in the militant ignorance . <p> And , here , it is very difficult to convince the elite of this country that the Prosecutor Poklonskaya , the Deputy Milonov , biker " the Surgeon " and academician Kadyrov is the current Russian spiritual elite . This elite understands that we are not just playable races , the civilization of the race , we dramatically go down . <p> And now , as I said , those as a result of things that used to work until recently on the preservation of the regime , they quietly begin to destroy it , and , most importantly , to legitimize . <h> Latest News <p> The experts shared their recommendations on how to act if you love junk food.Unfortunately , many recent studies demonstrate that people eat more unhealthy snacks . Many people prefer crisps , sweet sticks , chocolate bars and other sweets . Despite the fact that almost everyone knows about the ... <p> Now the garbage will be processed into clean energy.Lighting of streets in the Romanian city Sejny County of Maramures is due to the electricity produced by the station for recycling.Journalists write that , thanks to recycling and turning it into electricity , the local authorities managed ... <p> The actress appeared before the public in an unusual way.French brand Guerlain has created a new fragrance , whose face became Hollywood actress Angelina Jolie . The company posted a naked image of the actress in the shade where you can still see her tattoos. - I ... <p> Asia is a leading player in economical development of the World . Thus everything that happens in our region is bound to produce an impact on the rest of the planet . Our team is closely monitoring , translating and investigating news story for our readers . We are well informed in the regional and global news . We do our best to keep the pace of rapidly evolving World . Greetings from Singapore&amp;Bangkok. 
@@20148671 <h> Follow Us <h> British couple 's message in a bottle reaches Gaza <h> A picture shows the message Palestinian fisherman Jihad al-Soltan found in a bottle off a Gaza beach after it was placed in the water last July by two British tourists on holiday on the Greek island of Rhodes , on August 22 , 2017 , in Beit Lahia . Soltan found the message written by Bethany Wright and her boyfriend Zac Marriner after it travelled some 800km from Rhodes to the Gaza Strip . 
@@20280365 <h> U.N . chief urges end to Palestinian feuding amid energy crisis <p> United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres attends a news conference at UN-run school in the northern Gaza Strip August 30 , 2017 . REUTERS/Mohammed Salem <p> By Nidal al-Mughrabi <p> GAZA ( Reuters ) - U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres appealed in the Gaza Strip on Wednesday for an end to Palestinian political divisions that have deepened an energy crisis in the isolated enclave of two million people . <p> Guterres , on his first visit to the Hamas-ruled territory since taking office in January , did not meet leaders of the Islamist movement , which the West regards as a terrorist group . <p> " Yesterday , I was in ( the West Bank city of ) Ramallah . Today , I am in Gaza . They are both parts of the same Palestine . So , I appeal for the unity ... The division only undermines the cause of the Palestinian people , " he said in a speech at a U.N.-run school in the coastal territory . <p> Hamas and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas 's Palestinian Authority ( PA ) , which exercises limited self-rule in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , have been locked for years in dispute over power-sharing . <p> Applying pressure on Hamas , Abbas in recent months has slashed PA funding for Israeli-supplied electricity to Gaza , leading to prolonged daily blackouts in the enclave that the group seized from his Fatah faction in fighting in 2007 . <p> " Being in Gaza , allow me to express my dream in a different way : the dream to be able to come back to Gaza one day and to see Gaza as part of a Palestinian state in peace , with prosperity and welfare for the people of this wonderful place , " Guterres said . <p> Guterres , who crossed overland into Gaza from Israel after a helicopter tour of the border area with Israeli officials , repeated a call for a resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations that collapsed in 2014 . <p> Citing security concerns , both Israel and Egypt maintain tight restrictions on the movement of people and goods along their respective Gaza frontiers . <p> In a statement , Hamas said it welcomed Guterres 's visit and called on him to " make all possible efforts to lift the Gaza siege and end the suffering of two million Palestinians living in the world 's largest open-air prison " . <p> In his speech , Guterres said it was " important to open the closure " on the basis of a 2005 pact between Israel and the Palestinian Authority that includes detailed security arrangements for Gaza 's border crossings . 
@@20303926 <h> US takes aim at Iran over ties to Hamas <p> A strong supporter of Israel , US envoy to the United Nations Nikki Haley has repeatedly criticized Iran at the United Nations and cast doubt over its commitment to the nuclear deal <p> The United States on Thursday described remarks by a Palestinian Hamas leader boasting of strong military ties with Iran as a " stunning admission " that showed Tehran was violating a UN ban on arms exports . <p> Hamas leader Yahya al-Sinwar , who heads the Palestinian Islamist movement in Gaza , told reporters on Monday that Iran was the " biggest supporter " of Hamas 's military wing , the Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades . <p> " The Iranian military support to Hamas and al-Qassam is strategic , " said Sinwar , adding that ties with Iran had " become fantastic and returned to its former era . " <p> In a statement , the US mission to the United Nations recalled that Iran is barred from exporting weapons under a key UN resolution that endorsed the 2015 nuclear deal with world powers . <p> " Once again , Iran is showing its true colors , " said US Ambassador Nikki Haley . <p> Iran must abide by UN resolutions or decide " whether it wants to be the leader of a jihadist terrorist movement , " she added . <p> " It 's long past time for the international community to hold Iran to the same standard that all countries who actually value peace and security are held to . " <p> A strong supporter of Israel , Haley has repeatedly criticized Iran at the United Nations and cast doubt over its commitment to the nuclear deal . <p> The United States considers Hamas , which has fought three wars with Israel since 2008 , a terrorist organization . <p> Hamas has run Gaza since 2007 and received Iranian financial and military support for years , but the movement had distanced itself from Iran over Tehran 's strong backing of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria . <p> Sinwar , however , has sought to rebuild relations , sending a high-level delegation to meet Iranian officials . 
