@@19789313 <h> 18 children from Al-Helal football academy in Gaza are currently on a tour of Ireland <p> Brian Kerr plays football with touring children from the Al-Helal academy in Gaza . Photograph : Niall Carosn/PA <p> The term political football has been around in one form or another for a few hundred years but it can hardly have been much more aptly applied than to the issue of actual football in Palestine . <p> For the next week or so a group of 18 kids from Gaza will be travelling around Ireland playing games and hopefully enjoying themselves but according to one of the organisers there were meant to be 20 ; the other two were , it seems , prevented from travelling , along both of the team 's coaches . <p> Nobody , it seems , is surprised . Stories of how Israel makes life difficult for the Palestine 's senior national team have become fairly routine down the years but the sad reality is that sport is disrupted at just about every level in one way or another in the occupied territories . The kids who arrived here last Saturday know it better than most . Their club back at home is reported to have been bombed twice in the last five years . <p> For the national team , formally recognised by Fifa back in 1998 along with the football association , it took a decade before an official game could be played in Palestine and another three years before a World Cup qualifier was hosted on home soil . <p> For much of the time since , the game 's international body has sought to support the development of the game there with funds and equipment while at the same time wrestling with the issue of Israeli clubs established near settlements considered illegal under international law . In clear contravention of Fifa 's regulations , they play in the territory of another national association without that organisation 's permission and the Palestinians have been demanding that something be done about it . <p> The long-time ANC activist Tokyo Sexwale was handed the task of finding a solution but has , predictably , struggled to come up with a credible one outside of Fifa simply enforcing its rules , something that would threaten the ability of the Israeli team or the country 's clubs to compete internationally . That , though , is politically unappealing , it seems . <p> Due to have been to be dealt with at the organisation 's Congress in May , the issue was instead kicked back to next March of next year when , it seems reasonable to assume , it will be kicked back again . <p> In the meantime , the breaches come to be regarded as the norm and addressing them by restoring the previous status quo , it will doubtless be argued , an injustice in itself . It all has a depressingly familiar ring to it . <p> Brian Kerr with members of the Al-Helal football academy during a training session on Dublin 's Sandymount Strand . Photograph : Niall Carson/PA <p> In the meantime , the kids of the Al-Helal academy who have come here for a holiday organised by Gaza Action Ireland get a brief opportunity to leave behind some of the hardships associated with daily life in a tiny piece of land populated by some two million people . <p> Brian Kerr was amongst those to welcome them on Saturday and the former Ireland boss joined them for a knockabout in Sandymount . Sport Against Racism in Ireland ( SARI ) , with which he has a longstanding involvement , have provided a couple of coaches to help out although one of the travelling club officials has to try to help out on the communications front . <h> Melt hearts <p> As you would expect , the kids melt hearts wherever they go , it seems , with those who encounter them left deeply touched . They are walking evidence of the challenges their country faces , though , with those present expressing shock at the general disparity in physiques when they mingled with kids of a similar age at a club in Ballybrack , South County Dublin on Sunday afternoon . <p> The itinerary , expanded from last year when a team first visited , for the rest of the trip includes visits to Kinvara , Manorhamilton , Limerick and Cork and the youngsters , mostly aged between 12 and 14 , are due to take in the game between Shamrock Rovers and Derry City on Friday evening . <p> By the middle of next week , they will be back home again , and trying to play their football again in what has often been described , even by then British Prime Minister , David Cameron , as open air prison . <p> In 10 years time , if they get the chance to develop their talent , they might be representing it and the rest of what they regard as their country in international competition . As things stand , though , there is absolutely no basis to believe that the challenges they face will be any different to now . <p> Fifa will still be kicking to touch with perhaps the most likely thing to have the changed , the number of clubs defying the rules and making life a little awkward for handsomely rewarded officials who just want to be liked by all the members of the great , dysfunctional fiction that is the football family . <p> We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community , including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication . 
@@19819916 <h> The Gaza football academy struggles due to a lack of facilities , equipment and safe places to play . <p> Members of Gaza Action Ireland and children from Al-Helal Football Academy in Gaza on Sandymount Strand in Dublin as part of a nine-day trip around the country . Source : Niall Carson via PA Images <p> A FOOTBALL TEAM from Palestine are in the middle of a nine-day tour of Ireland -- and their next stop is the Mardyke Arena in Cork where they will face local team Castleview AFC . <p> The visit is organised by Gaza Action Ireland as part of a respite programme that gives children time away from the region 's hostilities . <p> Tensions between Israel and Palestine are particularly high at the moment after gunmen opened fire on Israeli officers in a holy site in Jerusalem ( known as Haram al-Sharif to Muslims and the Temple Mount to Jewish people ) . <p> Noelette Noonan and Arthur Leahy who are involved in the organisation describe the football trip as ' a real break from the harsh realities of life in Gaza ' . <p> The Al Helal Football Academy in Gaza began their trip to Ireland with a bit of football on Sandymount Strand . Source : Niall Carson via PA Images <p> Travel is sharply restricted for Palestinians in Gaza : few of the children have ever been able to leave the tiny strip of territory . <p> Last year , the organisation said it had difficulties getting all the Gaza team members across to Ireland after visas for one footballer and five adults were rejected by Israeli authorities , according to the group 's website . <p> This year 's team of 19 boys ( aged between 12 and 15 ) landed in Dublin on Saturday . They began their stay in Ireland with a friendly session with former Ireland manager Brian Kerr who co-founded Gaza Action Ireland ( GAI ) . <p> Brian Kerr takes part in a training session with children from Al-Helal Football Academy in Gaza on Sandymount Strand . Source : PA Wire/PA Images <p> By the end of their tour , the boys will have played matches in Dublin , Leitrim , Galway , Cork and Limerick . <p> TheJournal.ie is a full participating member of the Press Council of Ireland and supports the Office of the Press Ombudsman . This scheme in addition to defending the freedom of the press , offers readers a quick , fair and free method of dealing with complaints that they may have in relation to articles that appear on our pages . To contact the Office of the Press Ombudsman Lo-Call 1890 208 080 or go to www.pressombudsman.ie or www.presscouncil.ie <p> Please note that TheJournal.ie uses cookies to improve your experience and to provide services and advertising . For more information on cookies please refer to our cookies policy . <p> Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for user created content , posts , comments , submissions or preferences . Users are reminded that they are fully responsible for their own created content and their own posts , comments and submissions and fully and effectively warrant and indemnify Journal Media in relation to such content and their ability to make such content , posts , comments and submissions available . Journal Media does not control and is not responsible for the content of external websites. 
@@19830749 <p> Almost 80 years ago , Mardyke in Cork hosted the first soccer international to be played outside Dublin and today it played host to yet another visiting side when an under-15 Palestinian side took on the local club . <p> The friendly match that proved to be both just a game of football and yet something more . <p> The 18-strong party from Al-Helal football academy in Gaza have been in Ireland for just a few days and have already played teams in Dublin , Galway , Leitrim and Limerick . On Thursday afternoon it was the turn of Castleview AFC from Knocknaheeny in Cork to provide the opposition . <p> Zoe Lawlor , who was part of an Irish group that tried to break the siege of Gaza in 2011 , explained that tour followed a visit by Irish activists in 2013 when they forged links with civil society groups in Gaza . This is the second year that Al-Helal football academy have come to Ireland . <p> Most of their players were smaller than their Castleview opponents but were extremely skilful and they deservedly took the lead when striker Mohamed Mahmokin ( 14 ) scored only for Castleview No 10 , Benjamin Long to score twice in the second half to give the home side a narrow 2-1 win . <p> Castleview has a proud tradition of producing top players such as Miah Dennehy who scored a hat-trick in a FAI Cup final and former Cork City ace , Patsy Freyne . Castleview coach , Joe Sheehan was impressed with what he saw from the visitors as they kept the ball on the deck . <p> " They 're a good side , very well organised and its obvious they are playing a lot of football together - it 's great to be involved in something like . What they are going through over in their country is just unreal so it 's great for them to come here but also for our lads to find out a bit about them . " <p> Forced to travel without their two coaches and two players after they were stopped at the border by Israeli security , Al Helal , whose facilities have twice been bombed , acquitted themselves well . Academy president , AyedAbu Ramadan was delighted with the welcome they received in Cork . <p> " We are overwhelmed at the generosity of the Irish people for inviting our young players here and I can see the impact that it has on them , not just as footballers but also in terms of their personal development as it teaches about the other , " said Mr Ramadan . <p> " It 's great that they get to see that the world is not all like Gaza because back home we do n't see any other people - we see just ourselves and the Israeli army and they think the whole world is like Israel so a visit like this reinforces hope for them for the future . " 
@@19834298 <h> Interview : Ronit Sela , Israeli human-rights activist in Palestine <p> June marked 50 years since the Six Day War between Israel and the neighboring states of Egypt , Jordan , and Syria . Since then the region has been in turmoil . The Association for Civil Rights in Israel ( ACRI ) is the oldest civil society organisations in the region . Its work is to promote human rights in both Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . <p> Ronit Sela is the Director for The Human Rights in the Occupied Palestinian Territories Unit with ACRI . She was in Ireland recently on a trip sponsored by Christian Aid Ireland . <p> When you meet Ronit the first thing you notice is how measured and calm she is , presumably a prerequisite for this job . When we meet she is dealing with the loss of her phone with superhuman serenity . It 's no surprise to learn from her that for a long time she thought about a career in diplomacy . <p> She tells me about ACRI : " It was set up to protect and promote Human Rights in Israel and the Occupied Territories in 1972 . We feel it 's our mandate to protect and to promote the rights of everyone one who is affected by the Israeli government . A lot of the work we do is with Israeli citizens , the largest group of people who are affected by Israeli policies , but we also work with communities who are not citizens , so in the Occupied Territories we protect the rights of Palestinians who are under military occupation " . <p> She 's the head of the department that deals with the Occupied Territories and she works in the West Bank and East Jerusalem . " We do n't work in the Gaza strip , we only get involved with Gaza issues when there is a war and unfortunately there were three . There we look at any action taken by the Israeli military and determine whether it 's in breach of international law " . <p> East Jerusalem has been annexed and even though ACRI 's official stance is that its occupation is illegal and Israeli law should n't be applied there , it 's a reality that has to be dealt with . She notes that , " if people do n't have access to health services in the region we 're going to go to the Health Ministry and say according to Israeli law , they should have access to these services and we demand it . It 's the part of the occupation that we have to play along with " . <p> East Jerusalem suffers from extreme discrimination , the infrastructure is very poor on every level , especially when you compare it to West Jerusalem , which has become more western . There are parks , the streets are clean and everything is nice . But in the East of the city , it 's a world apart . Sela says , " East Jerusalem is full of border police . We always joke that they need to have so many border police because they need to figure out where the border is , everyone is still looking for the border , especially in Jerusalem , where the border is so unclear ! " . <p> Her work in the West Bank focuses in part on Area C -- a district that 's under full military control , where all the settlers live , with some Palestinians who are the hardest hit : " Especially the people who are living in places that Israel would like to annex in the future . Israel is applying very harsh measures to limit or diminish the Palestinian presence here and Palestinians are not allowed to develop the land . The longest-standing case in ACRI is 17 years . We submitted a petition on behalf of Palestinians living in a location that Israel strategically wants in the south Hebron hills . People were put on trucks and were forced to flee -- they were herding communities out , because Israel declared it a firing zone for military training " . ACRI have been petitioning on this since 2000 . <p> " We 've had success but my overall sense after having worked in ACRI for eight years , is that for now the door is open but it may not be in the future . We go to committee meetings at parliament , we sit down with their officials . We are invited to very high-profile meetings , we go to the high court , but at the end of the day none of our victories are complete " , she declares sadly . " For 17 years people have continued to live in a firing zone under horrendous conditions . Detention periods were shortened but they are still too long . Our principal position is that if there are Israelis and Palestinians living in the same territory , they need to have the same detention periods : you ca n't have two systems ! At this point I do n't know what it feels like to be working on something where you have clear victories . We have moments , but in the West Bank and East Jerusalem all our victories , all our positive verdicts and all the advocacy success is only partial . You go to sleep happy and you wake up in the morning and there 's another thing " . <p> I ask her about the pressures faced by organisations like Acri . " One of the things that has characterised the three Netanyahu governments is that they have been gradually cracking down on civil society and on anyone who has been a critic of Israeli policy that relates to the conflict , so not just what we do in the West Bank specifically , but also on the Netanyahu approach to negotiation or to peace deals . One of the strategic things that they have done which I think they have succeeded in , is that they have equated any anti-government policies in the West Bank with being anti-Israel and anti-Semitic " . <p> In the case of an organisation like Christian Aid Ireland it 's hardly surprising that it might say Israeli policies in Area C are harming Palestinians and are in violation of Human Rights . But , she notes , " That 's not just a criticism of the current government ; according to the Netanyahu government that 's being anti-Israel and anti-Semitic ; and people buy it . Jewish people have endured such a hard history of anti-Semitism that it 's easy to convince us that things are bad . Organisations that support anti-occupation work have been heavily targeted . The ones at the front like ' Breaking the Silence ' have been assailed , individuals have been directly attacked and there has been a lot of very negative rhetoric by members of parliament and by ministers . ACRI in that sense , is more in the background because we are an organisation that deals also with Israel but also , we are vocal in a more diplomatic way " . <p> How then does she deal , personally , with the central truth that ACRI 's successes are only partial ? " I grew up outside of Tel Aviv and went to Tel Aviv University . I had n't met any Arabs at all whether they were Israeli citizens or other . And when I was at Uni there was a project to bring together Jewish and Arab students , so citizens of Israel . The idea was to have a meeting every other week to get to know each other 's narrative and understand each other and that was quite powerful for me . I recognised that their narrative was so different and to hear from them about their relatives in Gaza and the West bank and to recognise the gap between how I see the world and how they see the world . That sparked my curiosity . When I finished school , I moved to Jerusalem during the second intifada in 2002 . Israel had started building the separation barrier in East Jerusalem and I just found this fascinating -- it 's such a different part of the city that had this almost Kafka situation . Half of the city had a wall and soldiers are checking every person , but you could just walk to another part where there 's no wall and pass through " . <p> She retains a compelling optimism . " I joined ACRI 8 Years ago , and what gets me down is the situation itself . I make a real effort to not do any work on Friday or Saturday because I think after 5 days of doing the work , I need those 48 hours of separation . Also , it helps that a lot of people at ACRI have been here for a long time : our legal adviser has been there for 25 years and the head of the legal department has been there for 15 . To be in an environment with people who have fought the battle , and get their perspective is good . I 'm an optimist by nature , I see how the world and life can be so unexpected . Sometimes , you make momentous changes without knowing it . Something that you invested 17 years of your working life in , you might fail at and then sometimes you wake up on Tuesday morning and think ' hey I 'll call that person ' and suddenly problems are solved " . <p> She was in Dublin for Gay Pride : " We saw the Gay Pride flags here in Dublin . A year ago , a group in Beersheba wanted to have the first Pride parade . After the organisers had interactions with the police , the local municipality and the religious figures , they were asked to march only on the side streets . They were asked ' to be considerate of other people 's feelings ' ! We challenged this -- we took it to the high court . I was optimistic -- we 've won such petitions before -- but we lost and so the organisers of the parade decided to cancel the march . They said they were not going to be diverted down back streets and instead they demonstrated outside city hall on that day , instead . But , in the year since there have been ongoing conversations between the people of Beersheba and the gay community and ACRI was advising along the way . And , last week they marched on the main street . There was no need for a legal petition -- instead an agreement was reached ! " . <p> She is steely and relentless though , as well as good-humoured . " Someone who did my job before me said that sometimes that you bang your head on the wall and then you wake up and you do it again and again , and that 's what we do ... professional headbanging ! " . 
@@19854830 <h> Lara Marlowe : An Irishwoman 's Diary on paintings that tell the story of war <h> ' The Irish painter Brian Maguire 's giant canvases of eastern Aleppo are so real one feels one could walk into these streets of devastation ' <p> Irish painter Brian Maguire stands beside one of his paintings of devastated eastern Aleppo , after it was reconquered by Syrian government forces . <p> Canyons of gutted structures , black , grey and beige against the sky . Shrapnel holes that make walls look like gruy ? re cheese . Apartment buildings collapsed into stacks of pancaked floors . <p> The Irish painter Brian Maguire 's giant canvases of eastern Aleppo are so real one feels one could walk into these streets of devastation . <p> Maguire 's Aleppo paintings are on exhibit at the Wilford X Foundation in Antwerp until the end of September . Seeing them , one ca n't help remembering an earlier Maguire painting of the then abandoned Anglo Irish Bank construction site , at the height of the banking crisis . <p> " As an artist you look for images that can tell the whole story , " Maguire says . " The Anglo Irish building explained what banking had done to Ireland . The Aleppo paintings explain what a civil war does to a country . " <p> Few images of war show human beings , Maguire notes : Robert Capa 's iconic photograph of the falling Republican soldier in the Spanish civil war ; the " napalm girl " and the general executing a suspected communist in Vietnam . <p> The ruins of a century of wars have also left deep impressions . The siege of Aleppo , which ended last December after a four-year battle , was called Syria 's Stalingrad . Satellite imagery showed more than 33,500 residential buildings partly or completely destroyed , the vast majority in the formerly rebel-held east of Syria 's largest city . <p> " The remains of buildings are the easiest way to explain warfare , " Maguire continues . " I remember a magnificent photograph from Gaza a few years ago . In the middle of the rubble , a sign said , " The US did this . . . All these things remained in my mind . It 's a kind of editing process . " <p> Maguire watched news images coming out of Aleppo . They reminded him of second World War photographs . " I got interested on the basis of the buildings , " he recalls . " That 's usually the starting point for buying the airline ticket , that I think there 's some work I can make here that explains what 's going on . " <h> Aleppo <p> Last March , Maguire seized an opportunity to visit government-held Damascus and Aleppo with an Irish group that supports Syrian Christians . He has been painting from photographs , both news reports and his own , for decades . <p> His work , he says , " is as close as you can get to being a photo-journalist without actually being one " . <p> For paintings of the Mexican drug war , Maguire " embedded " himself in the newsroom of El Norte newspaper in Juarez for weeks . He pored over the archives , and Mexican journalists offered him photographs which he based his work on . <p> " There 's one thing I share with photo-journalists . I actually go there , " he says . " It does n't work unless you do that . There 's something about sharing a space with the people who are there that enables you to have some ownership of the images . " <p> Photographs of soldiers captured by jihadists in Aleppo sparked Maguire 's interest in painting the Syrian civil war . " In the first , their hands were tied with plastic . In the second , they were dead . Executing prisoners is a red line . " <h> ' I look , I see , I paint ' <p> As a painter , Maguire says , " There is almost zero involvement in the propaganda wars that are being fought . I look , I see and I paint . " <p> But as a human being , he adds , " I could n't fail to be influenced by what I actually saw , and heard , and was told by the people I met . That was a different story than the one I read in the papers . " <p> During his 10 days in Syria , Maguire talked to university students in Aleppo and to women and communists who support the regime . <p> Amnesty International reported in February that the regime executed up to 13,000 people in one prison alone since 2011 . The anti-government watchdog Violations Documentation Center reports that more than 1,100 Syrians have been killed in chemical weapons and gas attacks . <p> Maguire admits that the buildings he has painted were destroyed by Russian and Syrian warplanes . <p> " The death toll is estimated at hundreds of thousands , " he says . " Every death is laid at ( President Bashar al- ) Assad 's door , including his own soldiers . It 's nonsense , propaganda . " He likens reports of chemical weapons use to the Bush administration 's fabrication of evidence that Saddam Hussein had Weapons of Mass Destruction . <p> This vision of the conflict is hotly disputed by human rights groups . But it is now embraced by most of the powers who have a say in its outcome . Washington allied itself , de facto , with Putin 's Russia and the Islamic Republic of Iran when it recently announced it was withdrawing support from anti-Assad groups . The presidents of France and the US no longer say Assad must leave power . 
@@19884779 <p> Israel 's decision to block news channel Al Jazeera because it claims the network " supports terrorism " has been condemned as an " undemocratic " attack on press freedom . <p> The Israeli government also claimed the broadcaster was " a tool " of Isis , whose followers subscribe to an extreme form of Sunni Islam , and also Iran , the leading Shia Muslim country . <p> Al Jazeera reported on its website that it had been prevented from attending the news conference at which the announcement was made . <p> Israel 's communications minister Ayoub Kara said it would block all the Qatar-based station 's Arabic and English channels and remove the press credentials of its journalists . <p> He accused the station of " supporting terrorism " and said cable broadcasters had agreed in principle to his proposal to take it off air , but that closure of the offices would require further legislation . <p> " And when we see that all these countries have determined as fact that Al Jazeera is a tool of the Islamic State Isis , Hamas , Hezbollah and Iran , and we are the only one who have not determined that , then something delusional is happening here . " <p> The network , which has 80 offices around the world , responded on its website , saying : " Al Jazeera stresses that it will closely watch the developments that may result from the Israeli decision , and will take the necessary legal measures towards it . " <p> It also denied the charges its coverage of recent unrest at the al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem was unprofessional . <p> " Al Jazeera will continue to cover the events of the occupied Palestinian territories professionally and accurately , according to the standards set by international agencies , such as the UK Office of Communications ( Ofcom ) , " it said . <p> Israel 's decision follows in the footsteps of Middle Eastern neighbours Jordan and Saudi Arabia , who have closed Al Jazeera 's local offices . <p> The Al Jazeera channel and website , which are owned by the government of Qatar , have also been blocked in the United Arab Emirates , Saudi Arabia , Egypt and Bahrain . Egypt banned Al Jazeera several years ago . <p> The network insists it is independent of its owners , although this is disputed by critics . Its willingness to broadcast dissenting views has caused waves throughout the Arab world since its launch in 1999 , coming to particular prominence following the 9/11 attacks and during the war in Afghanistan . <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanjahu said on Facebook last month that he wanted Al Jazeera expelled . <p> Benjamin Netanyahu ( Amir Cohen , Pool via AP ) <p> " The Al-Jazeera channel continues to incite violence around the Temple Mount , " he wrote in reference to the site which is known to Muslims as Haram al Sharif and to Jews as the Temple Mount . <p> " I have appealed to law enforcement agencies several times to close the Al Jazeera office in Jerusalem ... If this is not possible because of legal interpretation , I am going to seek to have the necessary legislation adopted to expel Al Jazeera from Israel . " <p> The Israeli announcement was condemned by Hamas , the militant group that rules in the Gaza Strip . <p> " Al Jazeera had a big role conveying the Palestinian narrative with a high professionalism , " said spokesman Hazem Qassem . <p> " It is a shocking statement , and it completely undermines Israel 's claims to be the only democracy in the region , because it gets to the heart of one of the most important institutions of democracy , " he said . <p> New York-based group The Committee to Protect Journalists ( CPJ ) also criticised the move for violating the freedom of the press . <p> " Censoring Al-Jazeera or closing its offices will not bring stability to the region , but it would put Israel firmly in the camp of some of the region 's worst enemies of press freedom , " CPJ 's Middle East and North Africa programme coordinator Sherif Mansour said in a statement . <p> " Israel should abandon these undemocratic plans and allow Al-Jazeera and all journalists to report freely from the country and areas it occupies . " <h> Related Content <h> Your Comments <p> Comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . Comments must be concise and to the point . The moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . The comment facility is removed after 48 hours . 
@@19910388 <p> It 's business as usual in the Dublin " projects " . In the backstreets of Crumlin and Drimnagh , children are frolicking , drug dealers are polishing their rocket launchers , grenades are glinting in the August sun , and working-class fathers are beating the hope of a better life out of their sons . <p> If that does n't sound like any Dublin you recognise , you clearly have n't been reading enough ESPN . <p> The cover story of the August 21 edition of ESPN 's The Magazine is a profile of Conor McGregor , written by the respected journalist Wright Thompson . <p> That is to say : the profile is ostensibly about McGregor , but the real star is " Dublin " , a " clannish , parochial " place of drug dealers and crime-riddled projects -- a place which almost no-one who ever set foot in actual Dublin would recognise . <p> It 's true that Dublin , like most major cities , suffers from crime and occasional outbreaks of gangland violence , such as the Hutch-Kinahan feud , which Thompson depicts in slavish detail . <p> The " Dublin " of Thompson 's fevered imaginings , however , is a place where " crossing the wrong street has traditionally been reason enough for an ass-whipping . Men have had to drop dates off at bus stops instead of walking them all the way home " . ( Note to ESPN : if young Dubliners drop their " dates " off at bus stops , it 's because they 're too tight to call up a Hailo . ) <p> In the piece , McGregor 's childhood upbringing in the " projects " of Crumlin and Drimnagh suggests he was brought up in the Gaza Strip or 1920s Chicago , not a neighbourhood in which this writer lived for six happy and peaceful years , oblivious to the grenades whizzing by , or the fact that I should have been taking an armed escort whenever I had to cross the Liffey . <p> But maybe I was just reading the wrong papers . " The tabloids read like a Dennis Lehane novel , day after day , a man shot in his bed , another stabbed in the heart with a kitchen knife , another smuggling in a rocket launcher into Dublin , " Thompson writes . <p> He recounts an anecdote in which McGregor had to flee in his white Beamer after he took a wrong turn and ended up on Sheriff Street . ( You know , the street we fondly call ' Iztapalapa ' . ) " McGregor hit the throttle and roared down the street . Drug dealers scrambled to whatever safety they could find as he sped through the intersection . A wise move in practice for a Crumlin native , but McGregor had underestimated the mania sweeping the projects and the lower-class quarters of Dublin . The dealers did n't want to confront him . They all had a phone in their hands . They wanted to take his picture . " <p> To be fair to Wright Thompson , you ca n't help feeling that some of his interviewees might have seen him -- and a Hollywood agent -- coming . <p> Take " Johno " Frazer , who gave the writer a tour of the bullet holes pockmarking the front of his Drimnagh home , before describing the time he beat McGregor up . <p> " Johno Frazer stood in front of his house , which he inherited from his recently deceased mother . This was the same place once attacked with a grenade . A crease marked the door , and the splintered glass of a bullet hole remained in the window above it . Johno wore scars on both sides of his neck , a permanent reminder of a prison murder attempt . He stepped out into the street and described his fight with McGregor . . . ' He was afraid I 'd stab him ' . " <p> In fact , the whole article reeks of a treatment for a Hollywood movie . In prose as purple as a three-day-old bruise , Thompson recalls how , in the days when fighting was still a hobby : " Conor found a job installing pipes on industrial sites . He saw the emptiness in his co-workers ' eyes . " <p> When the young McGregor said he wanted something more , his father , Tony , " beat his ass for not accepting the life required of people like them . A working-class father fears the moment when his son discovers the disappointment and limited future that is his birthright . " <p> The bad guys in this fantasy tale of the kid from the projects who made it big are n't just McGregor 's opponents or the marauding crime gangs , but also the Irish broadsheet media , whose pages , Thompson claims , " McGregor rarely makes " . <p> If only that were true . A search of irishtimes.com for " Conor McGregor " returns 42 pages of results . Conor McGregor is such a fixture of the mainstream media that my colleague Brian O'Connor recently referred to him as " click-catnip " and " headline herpes " . <p> We reserve the right to remove any content at any time from this Community , including without limitation if it violates the Community Standards . We ask that you report content that you in good faith believe violates the above rules by clicking the Flag link next to the offending comment or by filling out this form . New comments are only accepted for 3 days from the date of publication . 
@@19923907 <h> F ? ile 2017 celebrates 25th birthday in style <h> Staff Reporter <p> Published:09:33Wednesday 09 August 2017 <p> Gasyard F ? ile celebrates 25 years entertaining and informing audiences in the Bogside with a brilliant programme of talks and debates , kicking off today . <p> George Galloway gets things going by discussing everything from Palestine to Irish unity , while in conversation with local MLA Raymond McCartney in the Pilots ' Row Centre at 7.30pm tonight . On Thursday , there 'll be a public information event to discuss addiction issues in the Gasyard Centre from 1pm to 2pm . <p> Simultaneously , in the same venue , Tr ? caire will host an event looking at ' Gaza on the brink ' - Tania Hary and Mohammed Azaiza of Gisha ( Legal Centre for Freedom of Movement ) , will be guest speakers . <p> Also on Thursday ' Welfare Reform ' will be the topic of discussion in the Bishop Street Community Centre between 7pm and 9pm . <p> On Friday , the focus turns to Brexit and its likely local impact at the Gasyard Centre at 2.30pm ; while East Belfast Irish language enthusiast Linda Ervine will join Declan McLaughlin in conversation in the Museum of Free Derry at 7.30pm . At 1pm on Saturday , there will be an open discussion of the need for an Irish Language Act in Cult ? rlann U ? Chan ? in . Then on Monday the behaviour of British forces in Kenya , Yemen , Malaya and Cyprus will be the subject of ' Beating the Natives ' , in the Museum of Free Derry at 1pm . <p> Later on Monday , Patricia McBride , Donnchadh ? Laoghaire , Ben Lowry and John McGowan will take part in a discussion on ' Ireland - An Agreed Future ' in Pilots ' Row at 8pm . For more info visit **29;83;TOOLONG or contact the F ? ile office on 02871262812. 
@@20022669 <h> Plight of people in Gaza takes centre stage at Gasyard Festival <p> A leading human rights expert has told an audience in Derry that the humanitarian crisis in Gaza is being exacerbated by the continued restrictions on movement imposed by the Israeli government . <p> Tania Hary is an Israeli-US citizen and the executive director of Israeli human rights organisation Gisha , the Legal Centre for Freedom of Movement . <p> Gisha is a partner organisation of Irish charity Tr ? caire , and Tania was speaking at the annual Tr ? caire human rights lecture as part of the Gasyard Feile . The ' Gaza on the Brink ' event at the Gasyard Centre was attended by local politicians , clergy and members of the public . <p> Tania said that 50 years on from the occupation of Palestine , restrictions on access to , and travel from , Gaza are contributing to the crisis for the two million people there . <p> " All access is controlled by Israel , " she said . " As an Israeli organisation , it is important for Gisha to concentrate on this and challenge the government . Since the 1967 occupation of the Gaza Strip , Israel 's military has developed a complex system of rules and sanctions to control the movement of the Palestinians who live there . " <p> The reality on the ground in Gaza is grim , with water and energy sources at crisis levels and worsening movement restrictions crippling economic activity and hope . Tania says that the Hebrew word for ' hell ' and the word for ' Gaza ' are very similar and that in common parlance many people in Israel now say ' go to Gaza ' instead of ' go to Hell ' . <p> Tania 's colleague Mohammed Azaiza lives and works in Gaza . Tania read a message from Mohammed to the audience . He had been due to attend the Derry event in person but ironically even though he finally received clearance to leave Gaza from the Israelis , he was n't granted a UK visa . <p> He said : " It 's so hot this summer . I have three small children and it is very hard for them to sleep . The electricity is off for long periods so we can not use air conditioning . My children ask me ' why do we have no electricity ? ' <p> " The homes here are suffocating but the seas and beaches are polluted so we ca n't even go there for respite . I visited the local hospital recently and was speaking to the nursing staff . <p> " They are full of fear of the power cuts . They told me that sometimes it can take up to ten minutes for the back-up generators to come on when the power goes off . They have to resort to pumping oxygen by hand to critical patients including little premature babies . " <p> Gisha uses legal and public advocacy to protect the rights of Palestinian residents , representing individuals in Israeli courts , reaching out to opinion-makers and lobbying decision-makers in Israel and abroad to promote policies that respect human rights . <p> Since its founding in 2005 , Gisha has helped thousands of people overcome travel restrictions to access education , jobs and professional opportunities and to reunite with family members . To find out more about Tr ? caire 's work in Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories visit www.trocaire.org. 
@@20241460 <p> A five-year-old Gazan boy has died after swimming in seawater contaminated by the raw and minimally-treated sewage that is flowing into the Mediterranean thanks to the Gaza Strip 's escalating power crisis . <p> A five-year-old Gazan boy has died after swimming in seawater contaminated by the raw and minimally-treated sewage that is flowing into the Mediterranean thanks to the Gaza Strip 's escalating power crisis . <p> Mohammad al-Sayis died last month a few days after being admitted to hospital after swimming at the beach in Sheikh Ijlin , a statement from the Gaza Health Ministry said on Sunday . <p> Mohammad and his siblings had pestered their father to take them to the beach to cool down during the stifling Middle Eastern summer - the only respite for many of Gaza 's two million inhabitants , who are dealing with a burgeoning water and electricity crisis . <p> " It 's hot and humid and there is no power , water or fans in the house , " Mohammed 's father Ahmad told local media . " The sea is our only outlet . " <p> Mohammed died from poison ingested during his swim , the health ministry said . His brothers were also hospitalised , but recovered from their illnesses . <p> The little boy 's death has drawn more attention to the deteriorating living conditions in the Gaza Strip ; dozens of people have been hospitalised in recent months after swimming off the increasingly polluted coastline . <p> While Palestinians have been told for years that swimming in the seas off Gaza is not safe - and power shortages have been a fact of life since militant organisation Hamas took over the area a decade ago - in recent months the situation has reached crisis levels . <p> The West Bank 's rival Palestinian Authority ( PA ) has hiked fuel delivery tariffs for Gaza 's only power plant since April in an effort to weaken Hamas ' grip on the coastal enclave , meaning that at times the Strip only has three hours of electricity a day . <p> Hospitals have warned the blackouts endanger patients ' lives , and the sewage treatment system has broken down , pumping 110 million litres a day of raw waste into the sea and polluting two thirds of the coastline , according to the UN . <p> Since many households rely on electric pumps for their water , millions have difficulty washing , cooking and doing laundry . <p> Gaza 's only aquifer and three desalination plants are offline , meaning that 96 per cent of the region 's water is unsafe to drink or wash in . <p> A July report from the UN found that 10 years into Israeli land and sea blockades , three short wars with Israel and the slow PA squeeze , the Gaza Strip is now " unlivable " , and de-developing quicker than expected . <p> " Of all the issues we deal with -- the peace process , Palestinian institution building , the region -- the electricity crisis is the one issue that keeps me up at night , " Nickolay Mladenov , the UN 's special coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process , said recently . <p> " The effects of the crisis are devastating , " he added . " And all of this , at the end of the day , will come back to Israel 's doorstep . " <h> Your Comments <p> Comments that are judged to be defamatory , abusive or in bad taste are not acceptable and contributors who consistently fall below certain criteria will be permanently blacklisted . Comments must be concise and to the point . The moderator will not enter into debate with individual contributors and the moderator 's decision is final . The comment facility is removed after 48 hours . 
@@20245729 <p> The Limerick TD will have his feature film debut with his girlfriend , Fair City actor Jenny Dixon , in the movie Full Circle , also her feature debut . <p> He plays a TV producer and floor manager and is friend to a documentary film maker Malcolm Walker , played by Michael Bates , who suffers from PTSD ( post traumatic stress disorder ) after his documentary in Gaza goes horribly wrong . <p> Ms Dixon , the high profile Keri-Ann in Fair City , plays the production manager in the film written , produced and directed by Irish film maker Noel Brady . <p> The TD has a masters degree in music , media and technology from University of Limerick and : " I 'm a trained actor in the Meisner method , an adaptation of the Stanislavski method " he said . A Wikipedia search states that the approach of the Meisner method is for the actor to " get out of their head " , such that " the actor is behaving instinctively to the surrounding environment " . <p> The Fine Gael TD filmed his role in the Gaiety School of Acting in Dublin over the summer . <h> Release <p> The last scenes are currently being filmed " and then it will go into post production for release at the end of the year " , he said . <p> And he previously had a role in a short film Sleeping Dogs by producer Paddy Moynan , in which he played what he describes as a " slightly villainous character " . <p> Is all this acting taking his eye off the political ball ? <p> " Absolutely not . I 'm 110 per cent a politician , " he insists . " Politics is my full-time job and first priority . I was elected by the people of Co Limerick and am very privileged and humbled to have that role and will continue to work for them and represent them . " <p> The son of former Fine Gael TD and party chairman Dan Neville , he said he did not get as much time for acting these days as he had before but it was an important hobby . <p> But he believes there should be more synergy between politics and the arts , which he said was good for communities and good for mental health and there should be more emphasis and funding for community arts and sport . <h> Cultural experiences <p> The 41-year-old has been involved in acting throughout his career as well as other cultural experiences including six years as a part-time volunteer DJ for West Limerick 102FM where he had a dance music show . <p> The politician-actor also has a graduate diploma in business and digital marketing which may help when a group of friends set up a film production company he will have an involvement in : " A group of us work together on initiating short films . " <p> He will be involved in aspects of it including creating sets , dialogue , " getting into the specifics of a plot and even scene choreography " . 
@@20265158 <p> Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's vow to never evacuate Jewish settlements from occupied land has drawn outrage from Palestinians . <p> The pledge has also complicated matters for the Trump administration 's would-be peace envoys as they try to restart talks . <p> The Palestinians called on the White House to intervene , and visiting UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres challenged Mr Netanyahu 's comments , reiterating the international community 's opposition to Israeli settlements . <p> More than 100 settlements dot the West Bank and a string of US-led peace plans over the past two decades have called for evacuating at least some of them to make way for the establishment of an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel . <p> Mr Netanyahu appears to have been emboldened by the election of President Donald Trump who , unlike a string of predecessors , has not endorsed the idea of a two-state solution . <p> Mr Trump also has surrounded himself with a team of advisers who are long-standing supporters of settlements . These include his son-in-law , Jared Kushner , who is leading the peace efforts and was in the region last week for meetings with the sides . <p> Mr Netanyahu spoke at a ceremony on Monday night in Barkan , a settlement in the northern West Bank . <p> " There is a momentum of development in Judea and Samaria , " he said , referring to the West Bank by its biblical name . <p> " We have returned here for eternity , " Mr Netanyahu added . " There will be no more uprooting of settlements in the Land of Israel . Settlements will not be uprooted . " <p> The Palestinians seek all of the West Bank , along with east Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip , for an independent state alongside Israel . <p> Israel captured the areas in the 1967 war , though it withdrew from Gaza in 2005 . <p> The Palestinians say that settlements on occupied lands are illegal and undermine the goal of a two-state solution by gobbling up territory they seek - a position that is widely backed by the international community . More than 600,000 Israeli Jews now live in the West Bank and east Jerusalem . <p> While Mr Netanyahu has made similar pledges before , the timing - on the heels of Mr Kushner 's visit and with the UN chief in town - gave it added significance and raised questions about his intentions for resolving the conflict with the Palestinians . <p> During the Obama administration , Mr Netanyahu paid lip service to the idea of a two-state solution , implying that a Palestinian state could be established in parts of the West Bank or that settlements might somehow remain behind in a future Palestine . <p> Now , with Mr Netanyahu avoiding talk of Palestinian independence or a territorial withdrawal , the Palestinians are pushing the new US administration to take a stand . <p> In particular , they have been pressing Washington to call for a freeze on settlement construction and to endorse the two-state solution . <p> Nabil Abu Rdeneh , spokesman for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , denounced Mr Netanyahu 's comments and said they hinder US peace efforts . <p> " This is an Israeli message to the US administration , " he said . " We call upon the US administration to deal with these provocations , " which , he said , hinder US peace efforts and are " an attempt to return things to square one " . <p> The Palestinians have expressed impatience with Mr Kushner 's slow start . Mr Kushner held talks last week with Israeli and Palestinian leaders , as well as separate meetings with Arab allies in Egypt and the Gulf . <p> The Americans appear to be seeking a broader region-wide approach to peace by bringing in moderate Arab countries . <p> A senior White House official played down Mr Netanyahu 's comments . <p> The official said the Israeli position was known and that the US is talking to all sides to reach a deal " that factors in all substantive issues " . 
