@@19826962 <h> You will now receive updates fromEntertainment Newsletter <h> Entertainment Newsletter <p> In 1937 , the poet and heiress Nancy Cunard sent a message ( signed by a galaxy of literary stars ) to " the writers and poets of England , Scotland , Ireland and Wales " inquiring about their attitudes to the Spanish Civil War . " Are you for , or against , the legal Government and the People of Republican Spain ? " it asked . " Are you for , or against , Franco and Fascism ? " <p> The collated responses duly appeared as Authors Take Sides on the Spanish Civil War -- an iconic literary intervention into 20th-century politics . The ghost of Nancy Cunard haunts the two new books about Palestine , the quintessential crisis from the last century stubbornly unresolved in our own . <p> In Kingdom of Olives and Ash , Ayelet Waldman ( author of , most recently , A Really Good Day ) and Michael Chabon ( Moonglow ) collect the testimony of authors who visited Palestine/Israel in 2016 in delegations facilitated by the Israeli NGO Breaking the Silence , while , in This is Not a Border , Ahdaf Soueif and Omar Robert Hamilton present pieces emerging from the Palestine Festival of Literature , an event that , since 2008 , has tried to offer a world-class literary event in defiance of Israeli occupation . <p> " Because of the circumstances under which it operates , " Soueif and Hamilton explain , " PalFest is more or less structured afresh each year . We can never be certain which spaces or roads will be open to us or what the difficulties we 'll face will be . Sometimes our events are closed down or made very hard to get to . " <p> Visiting writers are thus subjected ( albeit briefly ) to the bureaucratic oppression endured by the locals , an experience that many participants clearly found overwhelming . <p> " What we witnessed , " writes Michael Ondaatje , " in the Palestinian territories -- in Hebron , in Jerusalem , in Haifa and other cities -- during our time there with PalFest was an almost complete erasure of human rights -- the rights of movement , the rights of ownership , of homes and land . The humiliation and limitations of Palestinians were so blunt and evident one can not believe that they still exist in our 21st century , and still continue unimpeded and unprotested . " <p> " What I learned in those few days , " says Monty Python 's Michael Palin , " will stay with me for the rest of my life . " <p> In their introduction to Kingdom of Olives and Ash , Waldman and Chabon acknowledge a reluctance to engage with the subject of Israel , the country in which Waldman was born . <p> " We did n't want to edit this book , " they say . " We did n't want to write or even think , in any kind of sustained way , about Israel and Palestine , about the nature and meaning of occupation , about intifadas and settlements ... " <p> That sense of compulsion -- a perception of injustice so extreme as to render silence or evasion inexcusable -- runs throughout the collection , with participants palpably stunned by what they witnessed . <p> Dave Eggers writes of Gaza , which is bordered on the north by a 7.5-metre wall separating it from Israel , on the east by a moat and an electrified fence , on the south by another huge wall demarcating Egypt , and on the west by the Mediterranean Sea ( patrolled by the Israeli and Egyptian navies ) . <p> " Gaza is a prison , " he says , " and about 1.8 million people live inside this prison . " <p> Hari Kunzru discusses the weaponisation of history in East Jerusalem , with dubious archaeology employed to drive Palestinians from the " City of David " , while Emily Raboteau describes Israelis appropriating not only land but , increasingly , water , as so-called settlers extract the great bulk of liquid contained in the Western Aquifer Basin . <p> In his own contribution , Chabon remarks upon the colour-coding of vehicle licence plates in the West Bank : one of the first things , he says , a visitor notices . <p> " On cars owned by Palestinians they were white ; the plates of Israelis ( or licensed tourists ) are yellow . Yellow gives drivers access , in their brand new Hyundais or Skodas , to a system of excellent highways that bypass and isolate the towns and villages of the occupied , with their white plates , and their older cars , and their pitted blacktops thwarted by checkpoints and roadblocks . " <p> Not surprisingly , writers in both books draw comparisons with another regime that , once upon a time , demarcated where certain ethnic groups could and could not travel . In This is Not a Border , Rachel Holmes ( a biographer and cultural historian ) recalls growing up in South Africa in the ' 70s , back when the apartheid state looked admiringly at its Israeli ally as a kindred spirit " situated in a predominantly hostile world inhabited by dark peoples " . <p> J.M. Coetzee , another writer of a South African origins , suggests that describing Israel today with the A-word leads to an unproductive semantic debate . <p> But then he adds : " Apartheid was a system of enforced segregation based on race or ethnicity put in place by an exclusive self-defined group in order to consolidate colonial conquest , in particular to cement its hold on the land and on natural resources . To speak of Jerusalem and the West Bank , we see a system of enforced segregation put in place by an exclusive self-defined group to consolidate a colonial conquest , in particular to maintain and indeed extend its hold on the land and its natural resources . Draw your own conclusions . " <p> In his essay for Kingdom of Olives and Ash , Mario Vargas Llosa , the giant of Peruvian letters , emphasises his own long history as a defender of Israel , before arguing that , because of the Occupation , " Israel has lost the prestige and honour it once had " . He opposes academic boycotts on the basis that universities offer a foci of resistance to the policies of the Right ; he emphasises the importance of " righteous men " like Amos Oz , David Grossman and other figures from the Israeli left . <p> But it 's difficult to come away from these two books with much faith that the traditional " two states " solution -- the perspective repeated endlessly by liberals around the world -- remains a possibility . In both collections , writers remark on how the infrastructure of the Occupation cuts the territory on which a future Palestine might conceivably be based into impossibly narrow ribbons . <p> " I had been imagining ' settlements ' as small beleaguered outposts on the tops of some hills , " says Brigid Keenan , " but in fact they are huge towns with high rise buildings that cover every single hilltop , all running into each other to make one vast urban sprawl dominating the country . Why do n't we all know this ? It seems like an incredibly well-guarded secret ... As for the idea of demolishing any of them -- dream on . No one is going to be able to dismantle any of these illegal towns . " <p> The poet W.H. Auden , who lent his name to Nancy Cunard 's letter , later quipped of the Spanish cause : " That movement will fail ; the intellectuals are supporting it . " <p> When it comes to Palestine , it 's easy to share Auden 's cynicism about literary gestures . Yet if writers ca n't , in and of themselves , end the Occupation , they can , at least , convey something of what it means . <p> " What can I do ? " Eimear McBride asks the Palestinian women she meets , who are despairing both at Israeli brutality and at the bankruptcy of the leadership provided by Hamas . " Nothing , " they tell her , " except go home and tell everyone what you have seen and heard . " <p> Kingdom of Olives and Ash and This is Not a Border are , then , books in which writers bear witness . Of course , by bearing witness , they 're also throwing down a challenge . <p> Kingdom of Olives and Ash opens with a sensitive essay by Geraldine Brooks . She is , however , the only Australian represented in the two books . <p> " It is impossible any longer to take no side , " wrote Cunard in 1937 -- and the same might be said of Palestine in 2017 . Which side will Australian writers take ? Increasingly , it 's a question that will be asked . <p> Jeff Sparrow is a writer and broadcaster . His most recent book is No Way But This : In Search of Paul Robeson ( Scribe ) . He is a guest at Melbourne Writers Festival . 
@@19852908 <p> Over the past 120 years , the Zionist movement and later the Israeli state have constructed a web of fallacies that surround the creation of Israel and the ongoing conflict , and which also seek to justify Israel 's ethnic cleansing and oppression of the Palestinian people . <p> This web of historical and current fallacies , which are often repeated by the capitalist media and Western governments seeking to extend their imperialist outreach in the Middle East , try not only to mystify the origins of the conflict but also to ensure that a just solution can never be reached . <p> Only through debunking these myths , separating the historical truth from the Zionist fiction , can we understand the origin and causes of the conflict . <p> Myth #1 : The conflict is religious <p> Zionist mythology often casts the Israel-Palestine conflict as a centuries-old religious conflict between Jews and Palestinian Arabs . This is a historical fiction . The reality is a settler-colonial conflict , which emerged only in the early 20th century . <p> Zionism , the ideological foundation on which the Israeli state is built , emerged in the late 19th century in reaction to European anti-Semitism and waves of anti-Jewish pogroms . <p> Reacting to the persecution faced by Jews in the Austro-Hungarian and Russian empires , a small section of the European Jewish petty bourgeoisie began to subscribe to the idea that anti-Semitism was not a result of historical developments but an inevitable occurrence as long as Jews lived among non-Jews . Consequently , the Zionists began a campaign to establish a " national " homeland , despite the fact that they did not constitute a nation , but a religious and cultural group . <p> Theodore Herzl , the founding father of the Zionist movement , understood that the world was already carved up by competing colonial powers and that it might not be possible to establish a Jewish " national homeland " in Palestine . Writing in his 1896 political tract , The Jewish State , Herzl asked , " Shall we choose Palestine or Argentina ? " <p> He noted that the Zionist movement would " take what is given us , and what is selected by the Jewish public opinion " . Herzl also explored the possibility of establishing a national homeland in Angola , Kenya and North Africa . The year before his death in 1904 , Herzl also enthusiastically accepted a British offer to establish a Jewish state in Uganda . However , in 1905 , the Zionist Congress rejected the plan in favour of establishing a Jewish state in Palestine . <p> Myth#2 : Israel is not a colonial settler state <p> Settler colonial societies are a distinct type of imperialist formation , which are premised on the racist elimination of the indigenous population through various means , including ethnic cleansing , genocide and/or assimilation . <p> Unlike other forms of colonialism that centre on the exploitation of resources , settler colonialism is primarily concerned with the control of territory and the elimination of the indigenous population in order to replace it with a settler population . As the late Australian academic and leading settler-colonial theorist , Patrick Wolfe , notes : " settler colonialism destroys to replace " . <p> Before , during and after Israel 's foundation , the Zionist movement sought to control as much of historic Palestine as possible , establishing a permanent settler population by eliminating and replacing the indigenous Palestinian Arab population . <p> Prior to the 1890s , Jews made up less than 4 percent of the population of Palestine . The rest were Arabic-speaking Muslims and Christians . Initially , the Zionist movement attempted to buy land from Palestinian and Arab landowners , expelling Palestinian tenant farmers and families who had worked the land for centuries . However , it soon became clear that the majority of Palestinians had no interest in selling their land to a European immigrant population . <p> When , in 1947 , the UN decided to partition Palestine against the will of the indigenous Palestinian Arabs , proposing to hand over 54 percent of the territory to the Zionists , Jews still made up only 33 percent of the population , while Palestinian Arabs were 67 percent of the 1,845,000 residents . Less than a year later , by the end of 1948 , the demographic table had been inverted , Jewish settlers now being a majority . <p> This was because , in the months leading up to the proposed partition , between December 1947 and April 1948 , Zionist militias carried out strategic attacks on Palestinian cities and villages , terrorising and killing thousands of Palestinian civilians . Zionist militias would eventually forcibly expel 1 million Arabs from 418 of 476 Palestinian cities , towns and villages , with 750,000 fleeing to neighbouring states , while another 150,000 became internally displaced refugees inside the newly established Zionist state . <p> Of the 418 Palestinian villages and towns ethnically cleansed by Israel , 385 were completely destroyed as Israel seized control of 78 percent of historic Palestine . <p> Regardless of whether Zionist settlers attempted to purchase land or forcibly take it as they did in 1948 , the settler colonial dynamic of the Zionist movement and the Israeli state remains the same . In both cases , the Zionist movement sought to colonise a territory permanently by replacing the original population . <p> Today , Israel remains an expansionist settler colonial state . In the occupied West Bank and east Jerusalem , Israel continues to steal Palestinian land and ethnically cleanse Palestinians in order to build illegal Jewish-only colonies , while inside Israel it seeks to ethnically cleanse between 70,000 and 100,000 Palestinian Bedouin citizens of Israel from their homelands in the Naqab ( Negev ) , to make way for Jewish settlements and towns . <p> A 2012 report by the United Nations special rapporteur on the right to housing condemned Israel , saying , " From the Galilee and the Negev to east Jerusalem and the West Bank , the Israeli authorities promote a territorial development model that excludes , discriminates against and displaces minorities , particularly affecting Palestinian communities , side by side with the accelerated development of predominantly Jewish settlements " . <p> Myth#3 : Israel is the plucky David fighting the Arab Goliath <p> Zionist mythology has consistently painted Israel as being locked in a David vs . Goliath battle for survival , aggressive Arab states seeking to destroy it at every turn . Even today , the birth of the Zionist state in 1948 and the 1967 war in which Israel seized control of the West Bank , Gaza and east Jerusalem are depicted in this manner . <p> This narrative was not systematically challenged until the emergence of Israel 's " new historians " in the 1980s . The new historians such as Avi Shlaim have revealed that the " miraculous " birth of the Israeli state in the face of invading Arab hordes that " enjoyed an overwhelming numerical superiority " is a myth . <p> According to Shlaim , in mid-May 1948 , " the total number of Arab troops , both regular and irregular , operating in the Palestine theatre was under 25,000 , whereas the Israel Defence Force ( IDF ) fielded over 35,000 troops " . By mid-July , Israel 's troops numbered 65,000 , increasing to 96,000 by December 1948 . In addition , the Zionists forces were better trained and disciplined than the Arab forces . As Shlaim notes , " The final outcome of the war was therefore not a miracle but a faithful reflection of the underlying military balance in the Palestine theatre " . <p> Similarly , Zionist mythology portrays Israel as facing imminent destruction at the hands of Arab aggressors in 1967 . According to Israel 's then foreign minister , Abba Eban -- in a speech to the UN on 19 June 1967 justifying Israel 's seizure of Palestinian , Egyptian and Syrian territory -- the Zionist state was faced with a clear choice " to live or perish , to defend the national existence or forfeit it for all time " . However , the Six Day War launched by Israel on 5 June against Egypt , Syria and Jordan was not a war of self-defence but of expansion , allowing Israel to seize and occupy the rest of historic Palestine . <p> As Israeli historian Ilan Pappe notes in his most recent book , The Ten Myths of Israel , ever since 1948 sections of Israel 's military and political elites had been seeking an opportunity to seize what was left of Palestine in order to establish a " greater Israel " . According to Pappe , the 1967 war provided " the best opportunity " to do this . <p> Prior to the war starting , both Israel and the United States were aware that Egyptian president Gamal Nasser was not seeking war . At the time of the Egyptian troop movement , Yitzhak Rabin , the chief of Israeli military forces , informed his government that although Egyptian troops had been deployed to the Sinai , they were not in an offensive position and that " Nasser did not want war " . Israeli prime minister Menachem Begin , who served as a cabinet minister in the " unity " government during the Six Day War , later admitted that Israel was the aggressor , saying " We must be honest with ourselves . We decided to attack him " . <p> Israeli president and former defence minister Ezer Weizmann , who served as Israel 's chief of military operations in 1967 and was instrumental in launching the June war , similarly admitted that Israel faced no threat of destruction and that Israel 's military superiority ensured that , had Egypt attacked first , it would have " suffered complete defeat " within 13 hours . <p> In 1972 , general Mattiyahu Peled , who led Israel 's war efforts in 1967 , once and for all debunked the myth that Israel went to war because it faced imminent destruction . According to Peled , the claim was a " bluff " , and Israel faced no such threat . Peled later condemned Israel 's actions as a " cynical campaign of territorial expansion " . <p> Today , Israel fields one of the strongest military forces in the world . According to Global Firepower 's 2014 ranking , Israel 's military capabilities ranked 11 out of 133 countries , four spots ahead of Canada and nine spots ahead of Australia . Since World War Two , Israel has been the largest cumulative recipient of US foreign aid . In 2016 , the USA signed a new 10-year military assistance deal with Israel , the largest in US history , worth $38 billion . The deal was a 27 percent increase on the previous military assistance deal between Israel and the USA , signed in 2007 . <p> US imperialism seeks to control the vast oil and natural gas reserves of the Middle East . In this effort , Israel became US imperialism 's chief ally , the US-Israel alliance being based on a shared political interest -- opposition to any form of Arab radicalism that might threaten either US or Israeli domination in the region . <p> Myth#4 : Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East <p> Israel is often touted as " the only democracy in the Middle East " . But far from being a democracy for all its citizens , Israel is an ethnocratic state that does not afford all of its citizens the same rights . One of the first laws passed by the newly established Israel in 1949 was the " Absentees " property law , which allowed the confiscation of land and property belonging to more than 1 million Palestinians who had been forced to flee their homeland by Zionist militias in 1948 . <p> Between 1949 and 1966 , Palestinian citizens of Israel were forced to live under martial law . Unlike Jewish citizens of the Zionist state , Palestinian citizens were regularly subject to curfews and political repression , Israeli military governors ruling over the lives of Palestinians with impunity . Despite being citizens of Israel , Palestinians could not leave or enter their towns without permits , restrictions were placed on their education and employment , and political activity and organisations were banned . <p> Writing for Haaretz on 16 June 2013 , Palestinian activist and novelist Odeh Bisharat recounted his own family 's experience under Israel 's military regime between 1949 and 1966 . In addition to the daily struggle to obtain exit permits to work in " Jewish cities " , Bisharat noted that Shin Bet ( Israel 's secret police ) and its network of collaborators/informants were omnipresent in the lives of all Palestinians , ensuring that " the military administration settled in our homes , nestled between the sheets of our beds , between father and son , man and wife , until everything seemed suspect " . <p> According to researcher Sarah Ozacky-Lazar , Israel 's military rule " penetrated all areas of civilian life and became a state instrument for political , economic and social control of the Arab minority " . <p> Despite martial law formally ending in 1966 , Palestinian citizens of Israel are still not afforded the same democratic and civil rights as Jewish citizens . According to Israeli human rights group Adalah -- the Legal Centre of the Arab Minority -- since 1948 , more than 50 discriminatory laws have been enacted against Palestinians , who make up 20 percent of Israel 's population . <p> In 2015 and 2016 , Israel enacted a further seven laws that discriminate against Palestinian citizens and Palestinians living under Zionist occupation in east Jerusalem , the West Bank and Gaza . Adalah explains that these new laws " undermine the most basic legal protections , rights and freedoms , including the rights to vote and to be elected , to political expression , essential procedural safeguards for detainees , and to ownership of property " . <p> Among the laws was one that allows the Jewish majority in the Knesset ( parliament ) to oust elected Arab members and their political lists purely on the basis of political or ideological considerations . According to Adalah , the law is the " latest attempt by the government to delegitimise the elected political representatives of the Palestinian minority in Israel " , following a range of laws including the " Electoral Threshold Law " , " Nakba Law " and " Boycott Law " in order to silence the Palestinian Arab public . <p> The reality of Israeli apartheid <p> Despite more than 50 laws legally enshrining discrimination against non-Jewish citizens of Israel , its governments and their supporters deny the apartheid nature of the Zionist state , claiming Israel is nothing like South Africa . <p> While Israel has not sought to impose exactly the same apartheid regime on Palestinians that existed in South Africa , it imposes a system of rights and privileges according to ethnic and religious identity , which fits the definition of apartheid enshrined in the 1973 International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid . <p> According to the convention , apartheid consists of denying members of a racial group the right to life , the infliction of arbitrary arrest , illegal imprisonment , serious bodily and/or mental harm ( such as torture or degrading punishment ) , the exploitation of racial groups by forced labour and the imposition of living conditions aimed at destruction -- in part or whole -- of the group . <p> Furthermore , Article Two of the convention identifies apartheid as denying " basic human rights and freedoms " to racial groups and the implementation of " any legislative measures and other measures calculated to prevent a racial group or groups from participation in the political , social , economic and cultural life of the country " , including the right to nationality , education , employment , freedom of opinion and expression , peaceful assembly and association and freedom of residence and movement . <p> While Palestinian citizens of Israel are subject to a range of apartheid laws in areas as wide ranging as land , employment and political activity , one of Israel 's most notorious apartheid laws is the Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law ( Temporary Provision ) , which was enacted in 2003 . The law prohibits the granting of citizenship or residency status to Palestinians from the occupied territories , as well as Arabs from Iran , Lebanon , Syria and Iraq , who are married to Israeli citizens . According to Adalah , the law specifically affects Palestinian citizens of Israel , preventing thousands of families from living together . <p> Israel 's apartheid regime is enacted against both Palestinian citizens and Palestinians living under Israeli military occupations . Since 1967 , Palestinians living in the occupied territories have been subject to military laws , which control every aspect of their daily lives . Palestinians are regular subjected to a wide range of punitive punishments and restrictions , including the destruction of homes and crops and restrictions on freedom of movement . <p> Israel 's apartheid regime in the occupied territories also allows the detention and arrest of large numbers of Palestinian civilians without charge or trial . Detained Palestinians , and their lawyers , have no right to know what they are accused of and no right to access the military " evidence " being used against them . <p> Since 1967 , more than 40 percent of Palestine 's male population , including minors , have been detained by Israel . According to Addameer , the Palestinian Prisoner Support and Human Rights Association , " Physical and psychological torture against Palestinian and Arab prisoners has been a distinguishing factor of Israeli occupation since 1967 " . The association estimates that since the beginning of the first Palestinian intifada in 1987 , at least 30,000 Palestinians have been tortured by Israel . 
@@19854173 <h> Trump yet to offer promised way forward <p> Israel began building the West Bank separation barrier a decade ago , at the height of an armed Palestinian uprising , saying the divider is needed to keep suicide bombers and gunmen from entering Israel . <p> Palestinians say the barrier , which slices off about 10 per cent of the West Bank , amounts to a land grab . <p> Israel captured the West Bank , Gaza and east Jerusalem in 1967 . <p> Several US-led Israeli-Palestinian attempts to negotiate the terms of a Palestinian state on these lands have failed . <p> Mr Trump said early on in his term that he would try to broker a deal , but has not offered a way forward . 
@@19856765 <p> Two murals believed to be by Australian graffiti artist Lushsux -- the artist behind a controversial mural in Melbourne of a sexed-up Hillary Clinton -- showing an oversized US President Donald Trump have appeared on Israel 's West Bank separation barrier . <p> The new drawings popped up on the edge of Bethlehem , the Palestinian city where the barrier largely consists of a wall of towering slabs of concrete . <p> In one scene , Mr Trump is shown hugging and kissing a real Israeli army watchtower built into the wall , as his left arm reaches around the tower -- and little pink hearts flutter from Mr Trump 's mouth . <p> In another drawing , he is depicted wearing a Jewish skullcap and placing a hand a wall -- a scene taken from the President 's May visit to Jerusalem 's Western Wall , the holiest site where Jews can pray . <p> An amorous Donald Trump loses his heart to the Israeli wall sectioning off a slice of the West Bank . AP : Nasser Nasser <p> A cartoon thought bubble next to him reads , " I 'm going to build you a brother " , a possible reference to Trump 's plans to build a wall between the US and Mexico . <p> The murals were signed " lushsux " , and the artist has shared photos from the mural site on social media . <p> Several media outlets earlier speculated the murals may have been the work on Banksy -- they are just metres from where the elusive artist decorated a hotel earlier this year . <p> " The Walled Off Hotel " is a Palestinian-run guest house that sarcastically bills itself as having the " worst view in the world " . <p> Lushsux has courted controversy in Australia -- his graffiti walls of celebrity memes and nude selfies have fallen foul of council authorities , who regularly paint over his work in the name of public decency . <p> Lushsux replaced Hillary Clinton 's teeny-weeny bikini with a burqah when told council workers would paint over his risque mural in the Melbourne suburb of Tottenham . <p> Israel began building the West Bank separation barrier a decade ago , at the height of an armed Palestinian uprising , saying the divider is needed to keep suicide bombers and gunmen from entering Israel . <p> Palestinians say the barrier , which slices off about 10 per cent of the West Bank , amounts to a land grab . Israel captured the West Bank , Gaza and east Jerusalem in 1967 . <p> Several US-led Israeli-Palestinian attempts to negotiate the terms of a Palestinian state on these lands have failed . <p> Mr Trump said early on in his term that he would try to broker a deal , but has not offered a way forward . <p> -ABC and AP <p> Search real estate for sale or rent anywhere in Australia from licensed estate agents on simply type in any suburb in the search bar below 
@@19917096 <h> A Q&amp;A With Omar Barghouti , Founder Of BDS <p> The following is an edited extract of an interview with Omar Barghouti , Palestinian human rights defender and co-founder of the BDS movement for Palestinian rights , conducted by Max Chalmers , in April this year . All questions are in italics . It is the basis of a larger feature by Max , which you can read here . <p> Having advocated BDS for many years , do you see the current moment as a time of expansion , retreat , or plateau for the movement ? <p> OB : This is a period of expansion and further mainstreaming . <p> It seems you have followed the debate about BDS in Australia ( I was directed recently to an article you authored for an online opinion site during the debate about Marrickville council ) . Are you still following the situation in Australia and are you in contact with domestic activists ? What do you make of Australia 's internal debates on Palestine and Israel and on BDS ? <p> OB : I try as much as possible to follow and at times engage in the debate on BDS in Australia , as it is one of the most reactionary and anti-democratic spaces in the west for Palestine solidarity activists and movements . <p> Have you followed the recent news about Bassem Tamimi 's exclusion from Australia ? What 's your reaction ? <p> OB : This is yet another strong indicator of the anti-Palestinian politics of the Australian government which is in stark contradiction to recent opinion polls that show fast growing support for Palestinian rights under international law . <p> Banning Tamimi from entering Australia also reveals how excessive , intrusive and corrupting the influence of the Israel lobby is on Australian democracy . Israel is exporting its McCarthyism to western states , and the Australian establishment is among the most obsequious in this regard . <p> What is your message specifically to Australians who are interested in justice for Palestinians ? <p> OB : Just as many Australians courageously stood on the right side of history in the global struggle against apartheid in South Africa , Palestinians hope that many Australians will also support the Palestinian struggle for freedom , justice and equality . <p> At the very least , we expect you to do no harm , to cut relations of complicity with Israel 's regime of occupation , settler-colonialism and apartheid and all the institutions and corporations that enable it to carry out its pernicious human rights violations . <p> The Executive Council of the Australian Jewry has a document that attempts to refute the claims of BDS and a key component appears to be linking it to the Durban 1 conference . " The " make-over " of BDS in 2005 , occurred precisely because of its toxic association with Durban 1 , " the document says . What is your response to the idea that the 2005 call to BDS was a " make-over " of an original attempt to isolate Israel at Durban 1 , and did you personally have any involvement in Durban 1 ? <p> OB : The inspiring impact of the World Anti-Racism Conference , held in Durban , on the origins of the BDS movement are well documented on the BDS movement 's website . But first and foremost , BDS is a Palestinian-led movement that is rooted in decades of Palestinian nonviolent resistance to Israel 's occupation , ethnic cleansing and apartheid . It seeks to isolate Israel 's regime of oppression just as South Africa 's regime was isolated in pursuit of the rights of the Black majority . <p> The document also singles out the BDS 's call for ending Israeli " occupation and colonisation of all Arab lands " -- what is meant by " Arab lands " ? <p> OB : This refers to all Arab lands occupied by Israel in 1967 . This includes Gaza , the West Bank ( including East Jerusalem ) , the Syrian Golan Heights and the Lebanese Shab'a Farms . <p> There is also a significant focus on your personal views re : a two or one state solution , even though BDS itself does not take a position on this . Do you think BDS 's aims could be achieved under either framework ? <p> OB : Yes . Ending Israel 's occupation , apartheid and denial of refugee rights is an essential condition for any just peace , whether in a two-state or one-state framework . <p> Do you think it 's fair to say more and more Palestinians are losing faith in the two-state solution and , if so , why are they ? 
@@19934967 <p> IT 'S not easy to upset an entire country , but one ESPN writer may have managed to accomplish the feat . <p> Wright Thompson , an award-winning storyteller and respected journalist for ESPN.com , wrote a long feature about UFC star-turned-boxing circus ringmaster Conor McGregor and his troubled past in his hometown of Dublin . <p> " Dublin is best understood by exploring its many divisions , its unending physical and mental boundaries , " described Thompson . " The city , and its current champion , McGregor , are defined by those limits . It 's a clannish , parochial place . Crossing the wrong street has traditionally been reason enough for an ass-whipping . Men have had to drop dates off at bus stops instead of walking them all the way home . About 60 boxing clubs still dot the city , training kids to defend themselves and their block , each gym a world unto itself . " <p> The story was initially met with effusive praise , as most of Thompson 's work typically is . <p> Wright Thompson 's Conor McGregor feature is on the short list of the best MMA-related journalism ever written . https : //t.co/AeiXF2wJ7b <p> Well , some prominent Irish media members were n't so happy with it . Several of them lashed out at Thompson 's portrayal of Dublin , and specifically the neighbourhoods McGregor grew up in . <p> Rick O'Shea , who works for a national radio station in Ireland , called the story " lazy stereotyping bulls*** " in one tweet and later tried to ignite a #StraightOuttaCrumlin hashtag to mock the depiction . <p> Dear @espn . I grew up in both the " projects " *ahem* of Crumlin and Drimnagh . This is lazy stereotyping bullshit of the highest order ... https : //t.co/vAm1ysniFA <p> " In the piece , McGregor 's childhood upbringing in the ' projects ' of Crumlin and Drimnagh suggests he was brought up in the Gaza Strip or 1920s Chicago , not a neighbourhood in which this writer lived for six happy and peaceful years , oblivious to the grenades whizzing by , or the fact that I should have been taking an armed escort whenever I had to cross the ( River ) Liffey , " O'Connell wrote . <p> " The whole article reeks of a treatment for a Hollywood movie , " she added . <p> It 's another weird subplot among many in the lead up to McGregor 's boxing match with Floyd Mayweather on August 27 in Las Vegas . Boxing lends itself to narratives as much as or more than any sport . <p> Now , some people in Ireland feel like ESPN has advocated a false one about its most famous city and most famous mixed martial arts/boxer/carnival barker . <h> Conor McGregor 's challenge1:04 <p> Conor McGregor may be one of the hardest punchers in the UFC and MMA but switching to boxing to fight the undefeated Floyd ' Money ' Mayweather will present the biggest challenge of his career , with the two sports being more different than meets the eye . 
@@20011280 <h> Missile countermeasures : North Korea 's threat , Israel 's experience <h> Author <h> Disclosure statement <p> Michael J. Armstrong 's research on short-range ballistic missile defense was funded by a grant from Fulbright Canada . Michael performed that study while he was the 2013-2014 Visiting Research Chair in War and Peace Studies at Norwich University . <h> Partners <p> North Korea 's nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles have been making headlines again . There 's also been serious controversy over how the United States and other countries should react to that threat . <p> To that end , it might help to examine Israel 's experience in dealing with actual rocket attacks . Some of my research has explored the properties of its interceptor systems . <p> Israel is a leader in missile countermeasures because of its neighbours . It has experienced rocket fire for more than a decade from Hamas militants in Gaza and Hezbollah militants in Lebanon . The country has n't forgotten Iraq 's 1991 Scud missile strikes . It also worries about future attacks from Syria and Iran . <p> Israel has consequently developed a set of countermeasures that provide it with a layered defence : <h> Blockade <p> One way to guard against missiles is to prevent hostile countries from getting them . Trade sanctions and military blockades can assist this . <p> Israel restricts trade into Gaza for this reason . However , Hamas responds by smuggling rockets inside other shipments . It also bypasses the blockade by producing Qassam rockets locally . <h> Deterrence <p> We can try to discourage the use of missiles by threatening to retaliate with our own weapons . But success depends on the opposing leader 's goals . Some might risk or even welcome retaliation . <p> For example , Israel has deterred Hezbollah from firing rockets for 11 years . But Hamas has not been deterred , as it benefits politically from occasionally provoking Israel . <p> Deterrence is the default solution regarding North Korea , as it was during the Cold War . It may be what U.S. President Donald Trump meant by his " fire and fury " comments . If North Korea ever uses nuclear weapons , it will invite massive U.S. retaliation and likely end the regime 's rule . <h> Pre-emptive strikes <p> The direct military solution to missiles is to destroy them on the ground . This counterforce approach assumes the missiles can be located and effectively attacked . It also risks collateral damage against civilians and diplomatic repercussions with other countries . <p> Israel conducts clandestine airstrikes against selected Hezbollah missile shipments for this reason . It destroys rockets on a larger scale during its operations against Hamas . One challenge is the large number of rockets . Israel has destroyed thousands , but thousands more remain . Another problem is rockets being stored in civilian areas like schools . Collateral damage there is unavoidable . <p> Donald Trump 's " military options " presumably include pre-emptive strikes . There are " only " about 60 North Korean nuclear warheads . But the U.S. would not want to miss even one . They may be hard to locate in that highly secretive country . They also may be well-sheltered and difficult to destroy without causing heavy civilian losses . <h> Interception <p> Once missiles have launched , defenders may try to shoot them down . Such interceptions are difficult to achieve , but make spectacular videos . <p> Arrow claimed its first interception this year . Iron Dome has engaged hundreds of rockets since 2011 , though with much debate about its effectiveness . <p> The U.S. also has several interceptor systems : Ground-Based Mid-Course Defense , Terminal High Altitude Area Defense , Aegis ( Standard ) Ballistic Missile Defense and Patriot . Patriot has limited combat experience , while the others have none . Their effectiveness against North Korean missiles is uncertain . <p> Even good interceptors are n't perfect . Iron Dome can not engage every incoming rocket , and sometimes it misses those it engages . Fortunately , the rockets have small warheads . The U.S. would likely face only a handful of North Korean nuclear warheads . But missing even one could be devastating . <h> How attackers try to avoid detection <p> There are also ways for attackers to avoid interception . The simplest is to overload the interceptors by firing many missiles at once . Hamas has been unable to do this against Iron Dome but Hezbollah has enough launchers to try . <p> North Korea may have too few nuclear missiles to overload U.S. systems . But it could succeed with its numerous conventional missiles . <p> Attackers might also try fooling interceptors into chasing non-threatening missiles or ignoring threatening ones . The former wastes interceptors , while the latter lets missiles through . Possible methods include jamming , decoys or manoeuvrable warheads . This approach is probably not worthwhile for rockets fired at Israel . North Korea , however , could develop decoys to accompany its warheads . <p> An attacker could instead try shooting missiles at an interceptor system to destroy it . However , such counter-battery fire uses up valuable ammunition . Hamas artillery rockets are too inaccurate to make this trade-off profitable . Hezbollah could attempt it with guided missiles or armed drones . North Korea would not waste nuclear warheads against interceptor systems but might shoot conventional ones at them . <h> Civil defences <p> Finally , a country can reduce its missile casualties by preparing civil defences . These include warning systems , bomb shelters and emergency response units . <p> Israel 's warning system is called Red Color . Speakers , sirens and cell phone apps alert civilians of incoming rockets . The country has built concrete shelters in locations like playgrounds and bus stops , as well as in private homes . However , there is concern that attackers might someday use poison gas warheads to bypass these shelters . <p> An Israeli mother passes by a bus stop which also serves as a bomb shelter as she accompanies her daughter to school in the Israeli southern city of Sderot , which has been the target of rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip . ( AP Photo/Anja Niedringhaus ) <p> The U.S. could revive its civil defence program , starting in Guam and Hawaii . The priority should be the warning systems . Shelter needs depend on the warheads . Even ordinary basements or concrete buildings would help somewhat against conventional explosive warheads . More sophisticated shelters and decontamination gear would be needed against nerve gas or nuclear warheads . <h> Complementary layers <p> Israel 's countermeasures act together to complement each other 's strengths and weaknesses . Collectively they may have prevented thousands of casualties and millions of dollars of damage . <p> To achieve that , the country has spent billions , including over $3 billion of U.S. aid . That 's a lot to protect a small territory containing fewer than nine million people . The cost to defend the U.S. or its allies would be far larger . 
@@20021769 <p> The last thing the Middle East needs is a major conflagration in Israel-Palestine -- but a summer crisis in Jerusalem made it clear that in the right circumstances , it really could happen . <p> The crisis began in the early hours of July 14 . Three young Arab Israelis broke into the Haram al-Sharif , which Jews call the Temple Mount , and killed two Israeli-Druze police officers ; they were pursued inside the holy place and shot dead nearby . In a highly unusual and controversial move , the Israeli government responded by shutting down the holy compound to Muslim worshippers gathering for Friday prayers . The shrine was reopened to Muslims the following Sunday , but with new metal detectors and additional " smart cameras " installed . <p> The Israeli prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , vowed that the status quo at the site would be preserved , but his reassurances were n't enough . <p> Many Palestinians saw Israel 's unilateral decision to set up metal detectors as part of an attempt to " Judaise " the site , and soon a popular uprising was underway . Muslim worshippers gathered outside the site 's entrances to defend what they called " al-Aqsa under threat " . In keeping with the orders of the city 's Islamic leaders , the Muslim Waqf and the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem , they refused to enter the compound through the metal detectors , and organised collective prayers in defiance of what they saw as an Israeli encroachment on Islam 's third holiest site . <p> When Israel finally removed the security apparatus from the holy site and everything supposedly returned to normal , the Waqf and the Mufti lifted their boycott , encouraging Muslims to worship at al-Aqsa again . Thousands of Palestinians hailed the announcement as " a victory from God " over the " Israeli occupier " . <p> This might sound like a disaster averted . But while the crisis might have been temporarily resolved , it proved that the risk of serious violence and instability is still very much there . <p> Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount has been called " the single most explosive piece of real estate on the planet " . It sits in the heart of a holy city that 's claimed as a capital city by both sides in one of the world 's most intractable conflicts . <p> Tensions at the site have ignited hostilities before most notoriously in 2000 at the outset of the Second Intifada , also known as the al-Aqsa Intifada . In October 2015 , the idea that al-Aqsa was falling into Zionist hands was one of the given justifications for a wave of stabbings , shootings and vehicular attacks on Israeli police and civilians . <p> Given this history , there 's nothing truly unprecedented about the most recent crisis . But the sheer impact of the protests it sparked took everyone by surprise , including political leaders on all sides . <h> Caught in the middle <p> As far as the Israeli authorities are concerned , the situation has now returned to normal , but the state 's behaviour during the crisis should worry everyone concerned . <p> Netanyahu 's government framed the July 14 attacks as a security issue , and put the sacred compound under strict surveillance . Despite the risks of escalation attached to more or less anything Palestinian leaders perceive as a change to the status quo , Israel still installed its metal detectors and cameras unilaterally , surely reinforcing Palestinian anxieties about a supposed Zionist takeover of the holy site . <p> Netanyahu knows all too well how dangerous sudden change can be , and only a minority of national-religious politicians in his ruling coalition really want to see unrestrained Jewish control over the sacred site . But he 's in a bind : only with the support of these powerful national-religious figures can he hold his government together , and it 's those same allies ' growing activism that usually triggers dangerous clashes at the sacred site . <p> Sure enough , Netanyahu 's decision to withdraw Israel 's security measures at the holy site enraged his hard-right coalition partners , not least his minister of education , Naftali Bennett , who 's expected to challenge him at the next election . <p> As for Palestinian leaders , the events of July showed how much the dynamics on their side have changed in recent years . <p> The president of the Palestinian National Authority , Mahmoud Abbas , initially condemned the assailants ' actions . But once Israel installed its metal detectors , he had to change tack , offering words of support to the Muslim worshippers refusing to enter the compound : " We support you and are proud of you ... This is the appropriate reaction to anybody hurting our holy sites . " <p> Hamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri took a similar tone , calling the attack in Jerusalem " a natural reaction to Israeli terror and the desecration of al-Aqsa Mosque " by the Jewish settlers . As Zuhri , that reaction would have also proved that all Palestinians are " united " in resistance . <p> Yet for all their grandiose rhetoric , Fatah and Hamas probably had little if any influence over what was happening in the Old City and East Jerusalem . Since at least the Second Intifada , Palestinians living in these areas have steadily become isolated from leaders in Ramallah and Gaza . Given the success of their recent protests , they may well start gearing up for a protracted struggle to " defend " al-Aqsa , and they can do it without direction from either Fatah or Hamas . <h> Beyond borders <p> If they do , the ramifications could be seismic . Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount is more than a touchstone of the Palestinian struggle for national self-determination ; it 's a concern for millions of faithful Muslims in the Middle East and beyond , and anything that happens there is almost guaranteed to have repercussions well beyond Israel and Palestine . <p> Sure enough , when the recent crisis took hold , local and international news outlets reported that several Arab leaders were variously working to defuse it and to mute reports on it in their own countries . They did so out of fear that the Palestinian uprising could spread to other Muslim countries and spark something like an another " Arab Spring " . <p> A new intifada centred on such a powerful symbol of Muslim identity would be more than a local struggle ; it could start a wave of Islamic solidarity and protest across the Middle East , and force repressive , unjust Arab regimes into violent confrontation with their own citizens . <p> For now , Israel and the Palestinian Authorities are at a diplomatic impasse , and the international community still is n't seriously engaged with the conflict 's central symbolic problems . As the Israeli settlement project continues , Haram al-Sharif/Temple Mount is still a dangerous flashpoint -- and a wave of unrest and violence across both Palestine and Israel proper is still on the cards . 
@@20032082 <h> Review : The Public Body .02 blurs the line between pornography and art <h> John McDonald <p> Our age is one of unprecedented permissiveness and militant puritanism . Pornography of every description is available at the click of a keyboard , small children are sexualised in a manner that would have been inconceivable to our grandparents ' generation . Yet Newton 's third law applies in psychology as well as science : for every action , there is an equal and opposite reaction . <p> The growth of sexual freedoms has been matched by an upsurge in religious extremism , and not just of the Islamic variety . The sexualisation of children has made paedophilia into a crime that stirs up a murderous public rage . Look , for instance , at the calls for Donald Friend 's once-fashionable pictures of Balinese boys to be dumped from public collections and even destroyed . <p> Video still from Tracey Rose 's San Pedro V : The Hope I hope . Photo : Supplied <p> The ongoing debacle of the same-sex marriage saga tells us everything we need to know about our divided polity . Treated as a simple human rights issue there is nothing to discuss , but to its opponents the idea of gay marriage strikes at the foundations of their world view , unleashing all kinds of demons . <p> Artspace is stepping into this minefield with The Public Body .02 . The show follows last year 's The Public Body .01 , which dealt with " sexualised bodies " . This event passed under the radar , overlooked by a public that shows little interest in the avant-garde fringe of the contemporary art scene . <p> I 'm slightly nervous about drawing attention to this new exhibition , but Artspace director Alexie Glass-Kantor has made it clear she welcomes debate and controversy . My concern is that many people 's idea of a reasonable response would be a furious call for the show , and perhaps the gallery , to be closed . <p> The Public Body .02 brings together the work of more than 40 artists or artist collectives in one of the most explicit surveys ever seen in this city . The curators , Glass-Kantor and Talia Linz , have continued the theme of " the sexualised body " but taken us into more marginal territory . Some works are satirical or buffoonish , others stridently political . Several artists explore the dark regions of the human psyche . <p> Advertisement <p> There is an emphasis on works with a strong performative element , starting with wall-sized photographs of actions by Leigh Bowery , the Australian performance artist who became notorious in London 's underground club scene . Bowery would dress in outrageous , gender-bending costumes , spoofing perceptions of the body , sexual and social identity . There 's also a long , grainy film of one of these performances , which is arguably the dullest item in the show . <h> You will now receive updates fromEntertainment Newsletter <h> Entertainment Newsletter <p> At the other end of the spectrum is Dani Marti 's video showing the art collector and patron , Peter Fay , having a first-ever experience of human intimacy in his mid-60s . It 's a gruelling affair for the viewer , let alone the participants -- all agony and ecstasy , with sweaty , hairy , ageing bodies exposed to public scrutiny . <p> Marti crosses a line here , tearing away the veil of privacy that we guard most jealously . Fay 's self-exposure is brave to the point of recklessness . Yet it 's impossible to be unaffected by this piece , which is the very opposite of pornographic . <p> I ca n't say the same about the archive of Super 8 films by Richard and Pat Larter , which gleefully embraces the pornographic sensibility in the spirit of ' 60s sexual liberation , which saw everything a bit kinky or dirty as a blow against a straight-laced establishment . Both the Larters , who have passed on , were shameless enthusiasts and connoisseurs of pornography . <p> They were also products of a particular time and place , with everything modelled on antiquated men 's magazines , or more extreme versions of tabloid page three girls . Watching an elderly Pat posing with a garter belt , spreading her legs and pouting at the viewer , one feels like shouting , " gore blimey ! " <p> There 's less comedy in the photographs of American artist Leigh Ledare , who has made his reputation with pornographic pictures and films of his mother . One can only wonder what sort of upbringing generates such Oedipal extravaganzas , but if your mum is a dedicated exhibitionist and you 're a would-be avant-garde artist , it 's a productive combination . <p> Ultimately Ledare 's taboo-busting work is probably less confronting than Ella Dreyfus ' black-and-white photos of old women 's naked bodies , collapsed into a mass of sagging , wrinkled flesh . Few viewers will be able to imagine their mother as a porno queen , but we can all recognise the inevitable ravages of ageing , and feel the chill of our own mortality . <p> Alongside these photos and audio-visual works , the erotic paintings of artists such as Del Kathryn Barton feel rather subdued . It drives home the message that the photographic image possesses a greater quotient of reality than the work of a painter 's imagination , which is always more strongly aestheticised . <p> Aesthetics provides a measure of protection for many of the works in this show . To call something " art " makes it much harder to dismiss ( or embrace ) as pornography . If I 've used the latter term freely it 's precisely because so many artists want to challenge that shaky distinction , which is largely a matter of context or our instinctive feel for a creator 's intentions . <p> A large part of The Public Body .02 is devoted to political statements , notably a film in which the South African performance artist , Tracey Rose , pisses on the wall built on the Gaza Strip ; or one in which Regina Jose Galindo , of Guatemala , stands naked on a block of turf while heavy earth-moving equipment tears away the ground on all sides . The paradigm for Galindo , as ever , is the frail body of the individual pitted against a corrupt and brutal power structure . <p> A two-minute video called White as Snow ( 2008 ) , by two young Pakistani women Rabbya Naseer and Hurmat ul Ain , is the sleeper of this exhibition . The artists appear to be reading from a list in Urdu , but it 's really a parody of the way boys are taught to chant Koranic verses . With gentle wit , they draw attention to their country 's huge disparities in gender roles and expectations . <p> There is no bare flesh in Naseer and ul Ain 's work , no obvious attempt to cause outrage , but it could be the most dangerous piece of all . For where strange sexual aberrations raise only a smile or a shake of the head , the smallest criticism of the great public enterprise of religion has been known to set off the largest of tremors. 
@@20064798 <h> Jim Claven <p> Gil Easton , World War II ' Rat of Tobruk ' , with is medals . Photo : Supplied <p> Gil Easton , who has died aged 93 , was one of the few remaining Australian survivors of the 1941 Siege of Tobruk . <p> Born in Horsham on April 23 , 1924 , Gwilym Mardy Easton -- or Gil as he liked to be known -- was one of five siblings.His parents were Anzacs who had served in the First World War . His Welsh-born mother , Edith Jeremiah Easton , served with the Australian Army Nursing Service in Egypt and on the Salonika Front and his father , Percy Easton , with the 21st Battalion on the Western Front . <p> Returning to Australia in 1918 , Edith and Percy met and married , settling in Moonee Ponds . <p> Gil was particularly proud of his mother 's war service . He was concerned at the lack of recognition often afforded to Australia 's war nurses and it was at a presentation I gave on the Australian nurses at Salonika that I had the privilege of meeting Gil for the first time . <p> Gil was only 15 years old when he enlisted in February 1940 -- the reason his Army Service File records his birth as 1920 rather than 1924 ! His parents thought he 'd never pass the induction but pass it he did , showing some of the determination that would stand him in good stead throughout his life . He would serve with the 2/1st Army Field Workshops ( Recovery Section ) , repairing machine guns and other military equipment in the field . <p> Gil sailed from Port Melbourne 's Princes Pier on May 5 1940 aboard the Empress of Canada . From Fremantle his ship joined the third and largest convoy of the 2nd AIF to leave Australia . After disembarking at Greenock , Gil and his unit were camped on Salisbury Plains in June 1940 . He remembered the camp being strafed by enemy planes after bombing the RAF airfields during the Battle of Britain , earning Gil and his unit the Battle of Britain medal . He found time to visit his mother 's family in Wales . <p> Advertisement <p> In October 1940 , Gil and his unit departed for Egypt and the Middle East , serving with the Australian 9th Division . Here Gil took part in the defence of Tobruk -- a siege that lasted 242 days and witnessed some of the most intense fighting of the war . Gil had vivid memories of this time , especially the bombing of Tobruk 's hospital . <p> After the lifting of the siege , Gil and his unit spent nearly 12 months recuperating and refitting in Palestine , Lebanon and Syria in preparation for the coming Allied offensive . He would go on to take part in the great battle of Alamein in July and October 1942 , which began the turn of the tide of the war in the Middle East . Here he served with the 78th Light Aid Detachment ( LAD ) , 26th Brigade , 9th Division . <h> You will now receive updates fromBreaking News Alert <h> Breaking News Alert <p> Returning to Australia in 1943 , he went on to serve at the battles at Buna , Lae and Finschafen . His elder brother , Emlyn , also served in and survived the Second World War . <p> Discharged on October 9 , 1945 aged 21 , Gil returned to civilian life in Australia . He married Lucia and soon they were overjoyed by the arrival of daughter Glynis . <p> After a stint in the furnishing trades , Gil began work in Melbourne 's thriving rag trade , obtaining a position in the storeroom of one of the industry 's material suppliers . He remembered the large containers of goods spilling out on to Flinders Lane in the 1950s . Soon he had approached his boss -- another WW2 veteran -- seeking a position as a sales representative . A natural salesman , Gil was given the chance and thrived . <p> Gil had found his calling . Soon he had started his own material importing business , opening up business connections across the world . He was one of the first Australian businessmen to be able to import material from China . He once showed me his business contact books , the old pages revealing the business cards of a forgotten era . His personal business archive is a treasure trove for historians of Melbourne 's clothing industry and early business dealings with China . <p> His personal business archive is a treasure trove for historians of Melbourne 's clothing industry . <p> Throughout his war service Gil was keen to record his experiences and those of his comrades . Using a small camera , he created a unique photographic archive of more than 140 photographs capturing his service in the Middle East . <p> When Gil first showed me his photographic album I was amazed . His photographs expand the visual memory of some of the greatest chapters in Australia 's Anzac story . They include images from the siege of Tobruk and the preparations for the battle of El Alamein . <p> But his photographs from Egypt , Palestine and Syria also show the streetscapes of wartime Tel Aviv , the Anzac Surf Carnival on the Gaza waterfront , the horse races at Heliopolis and Tel Aviv 's Ned Kelly newspaper stand . <p> In 2016 , with the support of his family , Gil made the decision to gift his archive to the people of Victoria . He was particularly glad that descendants of his former comrades would now be able to easily access his photographs of their loved ones , now held for posterity in the State Library of Victoria . <p> One of the most poignant things I remember Gil saying about his wartime experiences was the importance of having a sense of humour . He recounted how some of his wartime comrades would be emotionally shattered by the effects of the constant bombing . Before the great battle of El Alamein , Gil and a fellow soldier enjoyed the nightlife of Alexandria in a brief moment of relief from the reality of war . For Gil , it was crucial to think of the good times and not let the war take over . <p> With Gil 's passing we have lost another connection to Australia 's Anzac tradition . But he has left behind a unique archive for all us to appreciate . <p> Gil is survived by his wife Lucia , daughter Glynis , grandson Scott and great-grandchildren Greta and Isabella . <p> * Jim Claven is a Melbourne-based historian who assisted Gil in the donation of his photographic archive . 
@@20072771 <h> Ballarat Foto Biennale show crashes through our boundaries <p> Tanya Habjouqa 's photograph of Palestinian women practising yoga on the West Bank . Hayat ( left ) teaches yoga to the residents of her village , Zataara , on the outskirts of Bethlehem . Tanya Habjouqa/NOOR <p> by Alison Stieven-Taylor <p> Ordinarily , a photograph of women practising yoga is n't remarkable , except this one was taken on the outskirts of the West Bank , on the side of a mountain and the women are in traditional dress . <p> The photograph by Jordanian photographer Tanya Habjouqa is part of the exhibition Rearranging Boundaries , which is designed to shift the focus from the stereotypes we associate with places like the Middle East -- conflict , oppression and devastation -- to present a new way of looking and thinking about the " other " . <p> Curated by Australian documentary photographer Aaron Bradbrook , the show is a major drawcard of this year 's Ballarat International Foto Biennale held in regional Victoria . The exhibition features a diverse range of work from five artists : Zanele Muholi ( South Africa ) , Tanya Habjouqa ( Jordan ) , Abbas Kowsari ( Iran ) , Wei Leng Tay ( China ) and Remissa Mak ( Cambodia ) . <p> Bradbrook 's aim is to present work created by photographers who are connected to the country they work in . <p> " All of the photographers in this show actually live and work in the countries they are documenting , " says Bradbrook . " This greatly appealed to me as we often see images that are the result of photojournalists parachuting into a situation . I wanted to explore the idea of what it means to photograph when you have inherent knowledge of a place or issue . What can we gain from this insider 's perspective as opposed to the western ideological viewpoint ? " <h> Related Quotes <h> Company Profile <p> Take Zanele Muholi for example . A lesbian and a woman of colour , for more than a decade Muholi has worked as an activist and photographer documenting gay life in South Africa . Despite that country 's liberal approach to sexual orientation and same-sex marriage , anti-gay violence is endemic . Muholi 's diverse body of work is grounded in the desire to present queer Africans as real people , not as caricatures . <p> Muholi was the catalyst for the direction of the show , says Bradbrook . " I saw an interview with Zanele where she said she wanted to take photographs of people who would not make it onto the cover of a magazine . And I thought that 's perfect , that 's what this show is about . " <h> Traumatic memories <p> In the intimate portraits of Wei Leng Tay there is a different political current . Tay , who is Chinese and lives in Hong Kong and Singapore , explores our globalised world to ask : when people leave behind their homelands to work in foreign centres , what happens to identity , belonging and a sense of connection ? Are our cities filled with people longing for home , consumed with a loneliness that comes with disconnection ? <p> And then there is the deeply personal work of Cambodian photojournalist Remissa Mak , who was only seven when his family was forced to flee Phnom Penh , herded from the capital like cattle by the merciless Khmer Rouge soldiers . Shortly after Mak 's father was arrested , his mother sent to a women 's camp and his sister put to work . He never saw his father again . <p> Forty years on and the experiences of that time are still raw . Mak does not want to forget his own story nor that of his country , but how do you photographically convey a narrative that is hidden in memories and scarred by terror ? In Left 3 days : Shadow of Khmer , Mak draws on abstraction , creating photographs that reveal fragments of moments too painful to expose in their entirety . Scenes are shrouded in smoke and shadowy figures are silhouetted against undefined backdrops . Yet these photographs are not so obscure as to cloud meaning . <p> " I found this particular work really intriguing , " says Bradbrook . " Mak 's photographs are stunning , very intricate , poignant and powerful . His work starts to challenge the format of documentary photography to ask , can we shift the paradigm , can we start to play with the image ever so slightly and it still be representative of the truth ? " <p> The exhibition also hits whimsical , joyful notes with the highly acclaimed work of Habjouqa . Her series Occupied Pleasures captures some of the more banal , and also quirky , moments of the lives of women in particular who are living in the occupied territories of Gaza , the West Bank and Jerusalem . And then there are Abbas Kowsari 's ethereal images of Iran 's Lake Uromiyeh , known for its healing properties . These photographs transcend documentary to take on painterly notes . <p> " Amelia , from the project " , Convergence Singapore , 2010 , by Wei Leng Tay . We have to ask : are our cities filled with people longing for home ? The Chinese photographer is based in Singapore and Hong Kong . Wei Leng Tay <p> In Rearranging Boundaries Bradbrook 's desire for change is also reflected in the way the show is presented . Works are hung on vibrant red walls , and the exhibition space is divided so the audience moves through a series of doors . " There is no clear way of walking through the show , " he says . " You have to rearrange yourself . " 
@@20289120 <p> From the analysis of shrapnel fragments in a room struck by drones in Pakistan , to a recreation of a secret Syrian detention centre , forensic architects are using new research methods to expose state violence , war crimes and human rights violations . <p> Architecture is typically understood as a creative process , a discipline concerned with the process of construction , the ways in our material world is built . <p> This process of composition and recreation requires attention to the invisible , as much as to the visible . <p> " In Gaza we had to compose about 7,000 images of a single day of violence that unfolded in the 2014 war , " he says . <p> " The only way to do it is to build an architectural model and locate each one of those sources in space and simulated time and move from one image to another in order to tell a story that unfolds between images rather than within images . " <p> He says the emergence of the discipline of forensic architecture reveals a defining feature of contemporary conflict -- that today , most wars take place within cities . <p> " Whether in Aleppo or Gaza or Eastern Ukraine ... architecture becomes an important frame through which to understand violence , " he said . <h> Piecing together fragments of memories <p> Recently , Forensic Architecture investigated a notorious Syrian prison from which independent investigators and human rights organisations had been forbidden from entering . <p> Through Amnesty International they were introduced to five survivors of the prison who were living as refugees in Turkey . <p> They attempted to reconstruct their architectural memories of a building that was described by Amnesty International as an architectural instrument of torture . <p> " We reconstructed with each of the survivors their perception of the prison , " Professor Weizman says . <p> During the process , Professor Weizman discovered that eyewitnesses were able to remember crucial pieces of information that they may not have recalled in a standard oral deposition . <p> " Our memory is a spatial thing , " he says . " Our memory is an architectural machine , if you like . <p> " When you locate somebody in a realistic rendering of a space , sometimes repressed memories , the most difficult memories to retain , will come back . " <h> The threshold of detectability <p> When Professor Weizman and his team were investigating American drone strikes they found the missiles left a signature on buildings : a small hole in the roof . They had to rely on satellite images , but those images have very real limits and make the job of investigators almost impossible . <p> " The size of the pixel , that is the limit of visibility , in a satellite image is 50cm squared on the ground , while the size of the hole is 30cm squared . So you can not see those holes from the satellite image , they simply become part of the pixel , " he says . <p> Forensic architecture , then , takes place at the threshold of detectability , that is , the state of visibility at which an object hovers on the brink of being observable or not . <p> " We always have to be more creative than state and intelligence agencies , " Professor Weizman says . <p> " State forensics is based on a simple principle : the investigators must know more than the criminal . In counter-forensics -- civil society forensics that look at state crimes -- you have less visibility , you look at things in lower resolution and know less than the perpetrators . <p> " Here , architecture takes another meaning ; it becomes a creative practice of assembling , building models , thinking through solutions , operating under the threshold of detectability. " 
