@@19833857 <h> UN Chief To Make First Visit To Israel , Palestinian Territories <h> The UN chief will hold talks with Israeli leaders , travel to Ramallah to meet Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas and to the Gaza Strip , where the United Nations runs a major Palestinian aid program , during the three-day visit beginning August 28 . <p> United Nations : UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres will pay his first visit since taking the UN helm to Israel and the Palestinian territories , including the Gaza Strip , at the end of the month , diplomats said Thursday . <p> The UN chief will hold talks with Israeli leaders , travel to Ramallah to meet Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas and to the Gaza Strip , where the United Nations runs a major Palestinian aid program , during the three-day visit beginning August 28 . <p> Israel 's UN Ambassador Danny Danon said the visit will allow Guterres to " build a relationship " with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . He will also hold meetings with the Israeli president and defense minister . <p> " We are very happy about this visit , " Danon told AFP . <p> " It 's a great opportunity for the secretary general to experience Israel , to meet the leaders of Israel and to understand the challenges that Israel faces day-in and day-out . " <p> Palestinian ambassador Riyad Mansour described the upcoming visit as " very important , " indicating that it signaled a stronger UN focus on the plight of Palestinians . <p> " The UN has been involved since its inception with the question of Palestine and will remain involved until the question is resolved in all its aspects on the basis of international law , " he told AFP by email . <p> Guterres , a former prime minister of Portugal , " is experienced . He has been to Israel in the past . He knows the complexity of the issues . He is not someone who comes to our region and has no clue about what is happening , " said Danon . <p> The Israeli government will discuss strengthening the mission of the UN interim force in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ) , said Danon , following a series of skirmishes along the UN-monitored demarcation line between Israel and Lebanon . <p> Relations between the United Nations and Israel have been tense over the expansion of Jewish settlements , which the world body has condemned as illegal . <p> Since taking over from Ban Ki-moon on January 1 , Guterres has been cautious in his approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , partly in response to US accusations that the United Nations was biased against Israel . <p> In March , the UN chief demanded that a report by a UN body be withdrawn after it accused Israel of imposing an apartheid system on the Palestinians . <p> Guterres had initially distanced himself from the report , but the United States insisted that it be withdrawn altogether.During the recent flareup of violence in Jerusalem , Guterres called for de-escalation and respect for the status quo at holy sites after Israel installed metal detectors at the Haram al-Sharif mosque compound , known to Jews as the Temple Mount . <p> ( This story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed. ) 
@@19859443 <h> Indo-Israel Strategic Relations within the framework of Hindutva Philosophy <p> Saturday 5 August 2017 <p> by Arun Srivastava <p> Two remarks by the Israeli Prime Minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , are yet to make any significant sense : First , the marriage between Israel and India was made in heaven . Benjamin did not elaborate the nature of the marriage , which is the male partner , and whether it could be consummated . His second remark was more hilarious but important . Exhilarated to have Narendra Modi amidst his people , Netanyahu said ; " We 've waited for you 70 years . " <p> Undoubtedly Modi has been the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Israel . But it was certainly not of such a magnitude for Netanyahu to come out with these remarks . It implied more than what meets the eye . Usually a Prime Minister 's visit is not the guarantee to have strong bilateral relations between the two countries . But in case of Israel the nuance was quite different . <p> Netanyahu , the second longest serving Israeli Prime Minister after David Ben-Gurion , is a Right-wing hardliner . He built his political career by portraying Palestinians as an existential threat to the Jewish state of Israel . He has thrived on playing the politics of fear and demonising Muslims . Modi too has been pursuing far-Right politics in India . <p> His nursing of anti-Muslim views has been an open secret . From refusing to wear the skullcap to denying ticket of his party to even a single Muslim in the UP elections -- these are some of the glaring examples . While the Muslims were being lynched on the plea of carrying and eating beef , he had been maintaining a reflexive silence . He cautioned criminals but did not warn his saffron friends . The increasing tempo of attacks and lynchings shows the Prime Minister 's inadequate response to rising communalism . What could be a better exposure than befriending Israel for the BJP to show the way to suppress minorities and all those who do not accept the diktats of the NDA ? <p> Netanyahu was obviously thrilled on receiving an Indian Prime Minister who is the champion of Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra . Though India had fraternal relations with Israel , the intensity of the love and concern for each other could be gauged from the simple fact that Modi agreed to elevate India 's relationship with Israel to one of " strategic partnership " after negotiations and last-minute changes in the joint statement . <p> India and Israel have never before referred to each other as " strategic partners " . India has strategic relations with only a handful of countries . The nomenclature emerged in a post-Cold War world when India tried to diversify its partnerships . France in 1998 and Russia in 2000 were its earliest strategic partners . The US , the UK , Japan and Australia are among the country 's major strategic partners of late . <p> The idea , officials from both sides suggested , was to broaden and deepen India-Israel ties so much so that unravelling the partnership becomes difficult for future governments in either country . The two leaders had made clear , they said , that they wanted to insulate the relationship from any future upheavals in the Middle East . <p> Interestingly , Netanyahu had referred to the bilateral relationship as " I square T square " -- Israeli technology and Indian talent . Modi was more candid . Modi told the Israeli President , Reuven Rivlin : " It means ' India for Israel ' . " They agreed , in a joint statement , to not only condemn terrorism in " all forms and manifes-tations " but to take strong measures against " those who encourage , support and finance terrorism , or provide sanctuary to terrorists and terror groups " . <p> Netanyahu made it explicitly known to the world that he felt happy only with Modi . One thing is certain : that Benjamin was trying to convey his and his countrymen 's feeling towards saffron India . Modi , ignoring the basic tenet to say even hello to Palestine , while on visit to Israel , has embedded the feeling in the Israeli people that Hindu India was closer to them than any other country . <p> It is a known fact Hindu nationalists in India admire Israel for domination on its Muslim neighbour . They also dream of turning India into an aggressive state like Israel . The Sangh 's passion for Israel is almost legendary . Vinayak Damodar Savarkar , who coined the term Hindutva , had hailed the creation of Israel as a " joyous " moment . He had even publicly clashed with Mahatma Gandhi and other nationalist leaders for opposing the forced displacement of Palestinians to carve out a Jewish homeland . <p> True enough it would have been a major surprise if Modi , who had a widely publicised meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu in New York sometime back , had not emphasised to " deepen and develop " closer relations with Israel . And to achieve the mission it was quite necessary and essential that he diluted the principled stand on the Palestinians ' right to an independent statehood . The previous Indian governments , which supported the cause of Palestine , had achieved a strong defence , intelligence and security relationship with Israel . The relations blossomed even when both the countries did not have full diplomatic relations . Obviously in this backdrop Modi skipping the Palestine question needs to be understood in the proper perspective . <p> The Prime Minister is free to enter into relationship with any country he likes . Look at the way he brought India closer to America even at the peril of risking the defence needs of the country ! In spite of serious protests and even objections from the defence experts , he has made India virtually an ally of America . In its quest to have strong relations the government preferred to ignore the anti-India rhetoric and remarks of the US President , Donald Trump . In fact 2017 has already become a record year of Israeli weapons sales to India . <p> It is worth mentioning that at a time when Netanyahu is facing growing isolation inter-nationally and even its traditional patrons have started to lose patience , he desperately needed India on his side . It is Israel that is looking for new international partners now that it is under pressure . Benjamin 's agony also got its manifes-tation in his two remarks . <p> The more Netanyahu tried to wrap up things , the more those got exposed . His euphoria was evidently much in the form of coming together of anti-Muslim countries and forces . No doubt that Israel in order to give a concrete shape to its new-found relations would do its best to help India . The government can expect to get Mossad help in fighting terrorists . Israeli tenacity ought to be appreciated . A report carried by the Israeli newspaper , Haaretz , underlines the inhumanity , illegality and difficulty in the Israeli attempt to convert Jerusalem , the eastern half of which was captured by Israel in 1967 , into a homogeneous Jewish city . <p> Paradoxically , Modi , who was the first Indian leader to give Palestine a miss while visiting the area , refrained from saying that India would recognise Jerusalem as an exclusively Israeli or Jewish city , for centuries sacred to Jews , Christians and Muslims . It is significant that the momentum for Palestinian campaign for statehood has gained in recent weeks . Several European states , including Poland , Hungary and Slovakia , have already recognised Palestine as a state . But the question arises : amid all this , where is India , one of the Palestinians ' oldest friends ? Unfortunately , the Indian Parliament failed even to adopt a resolution against Israel 's disproportionate use of force in Gaza to punish Hamas for its admittedly short-sighted and foolish strategy of firing missiles at Israel . <p> There is a mood change even in America . With the Palestinian campaign 's growing momentum and the diminishing clout of Israel , around 138 countries voted to give Palestine the enhanced status of a " non-member observer state " at the UN General Assembly in 2012 . Even Britain chose to abstain rather than vote with Israel . <p> In April 2016 , India joined 32 other countries on the UNESCO General Board to condemn Israel for its excavation and exclusion policies around the Al-Aqsa mosque and the Al-Haram Al-Sharif area , much to the anger of the Israeli Government . But when a similar resolution was put to vote on October 18 , the Indian delegate abstained . Obviously by this time the Modi Government had made up its mind . <p> India 's change of stand on a resolution that called out Israel for its violations of the Geneva Conventions , the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and a raft of other treaties is bizarre . But this is the reality . The Modi Govern-ment has changed the track to bring about consolidation of the anti-Muslim forces . Reports indicate that the BJP-RSS-VHP supporters , especially in America and the UK , have been clamouring for a Zionist-Hindu alliance and are striving hard to develop it . <p> Their argument is : India should recognise that Israel is a Hindu-friendly nation . Common to both Hindutva and Zionism is the belief that true democracy is majoritarian and must protect Hindus/Hinduism and Jews/Judaism . The most weird argument has been that India and Israel must not confer full citizenship rights to other ethnic/religious groupings such as Muslims and Christians in India or to the Palestinians or " Israeli Arabs " as they are called in Israel . <p> Modi , the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Israel , twice referred to his trip as " path-breaking " , and called his unprecedented flight into a country , which New Delhi considered a pariah till 25 years back , a " singular honour " . The Israeli euphoria could be understood from the fact that they described Modi 's approach and action as tearing down of the " final walls " dividing India and Israel . His full-throated public embrace of the relationship underlined a complete shift in India 's West Asia policy that began in 1992 . With four bear hugs , personal references and an unconcealed thrill , Modi and Netanyahu praised each other and their nations . <p> In Israel Modi identified himself more as an ideological friend of Benjamin than merely performing the role of the Indian Prime Minister . Modi took another theatrical step towards dismantling India 's complicated legacy with Israel . He agreed to Netanyahu 's on-the-spot proposal to visit the tomb of Theodor Herzl , considered the founding father of Zionism . India had voted in 1975 to declare Zionism " racism " at the UN Security Council .. Modi 's visit to Herzl 's tomb amounted to a formal endorsement of Zionism . Modi provided a visibility to the relationship that Israel has long sought . Apart from September 2014 , Modi and Netanyahu also met in Paris in December 2015 on the margins of the climate change conference there . The two leaders are known to have spoken on the telephone on multiple occasions . <p> Historically , India framed its relationship with Israel based on a priority accorded to Palestine . In 1936 , Jawaharlal Nehru informed the Zionist emissary , Immanuel Olsvanger , that he could not tolerate imperialism in India or Palestine . P.R . Kumaraswamy , Professor of West Asian Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University , writes that while anti-colonialism was an important aspect of India backing Palestine , supporting Palestine was also a method of leveraging India 's interests in the Middle East . Undoubtedly , there is markedly more visible warmth between the two countries since 2014 , once Modi became the Prime Minister . It is worth mentioning that for the first time a senior Indian Minister , L.K. Advani , had visited Israel in the year 2000 , when the BJP was in power . Israel had been sending its Presidents and Prime Ministers to India since 1993 . The Israeli President , Reuven Rivlin , visited India in November 2016 . <p> India and Israel view each other as victims of Islamist terror which matches Modi 's Hindutva background . India having strategic relationship with Israel is the culmination of a long-held dream of the BJP and its ideological parent , the RSS . For the RSS , Israel is much more than just another nation . Israel is everything that the RSS wants India to be . <p> It all started with RSS chief M.S. Gowalkar 's support for the creation of Israel at a time when the then Prime Minister , Jawaharlal Nehru , had outright rejected the appeal from Nobel Laureate Albert Einstein seeking support for Jews and the creation of Israel . All these pracharaks believe that Israel is the antithesis to global Islam or international Islamic brotherhood . Bhaurao Deoras continued his engagements with Jews with roots in Mumbai , Kerala and other parts of the country , and pressed the idea of bridging with Israel . In late 1991 , he along with the then Leader of the Opposition , L.K. Advani , met the then PM , Narasimha Rao , and pushed for diplomatic relations with Israel . <p> Nevertheless , this visit has boosted Israel 's defence trade with India . This is the largest area of cooperation . Israel 's defence industry bagged its biggest security contract in April 2017 with the state-owned Israel Aerospace Industries being awarded contracts worth $ 2 billion for providing medium range surface-to-air missile systems to the Indian Army . It is no secret that India is currently the biggest importer of arms in the world while Israel is its second largest foreign supplier . <p> Israel is now the second largest supplier of military equipment to India ( after Russia , which might well be permanently overtaken in due course by both Israel and the US ) and India is now Israel 's biggest arms purchaser . In New Delhi , Israel is seen as a key conduit for influencing the US Government which , while seeking to consolidate its strategic partnership with India , also -- to the irritation of India -- feels the need to sustain its strategic ties with Pakistan . <p> The author is a senior journalist and can be contacted at sriv52atgmail.com 
@@19872156 <h> Abbas pledges further sanctions on Gaza <p> Abbas , the leader of the **26;145;TOOLONG Palestinian government based in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , has been seeking to weaken Hamas by cutting power supplies to Gaza . He said he would continue with sanctions , despite UN concerns that it amounts to collective punishment of residents . <p> AFP Updated : Aug 6 , 2017 , 05:05 PM IST <p> Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas ( File photo ) <p> GAZA CITY : Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas has pledged to increase sanctions on the Gaza Strip , drawing a fresh attack from its Hamas rulers . <p> Abbas , the leader of the **26;173;TOOLONG Palestinian government based in the Israeli-occupied West Bank , has been seeking to weaken Islamists Hamas by cutting power supplies to crowded Gaza . <p> On Saturday , he said he would continue with sanctions on the coastal strip , despite UN concerns that it amounts to collective punishment of its two million residents . <p> " We will continue the gradual stopping of financial allocations to the Gaza Strip until Hamas commits to reconciliation " with the Abbas administration , the president said . <p> " Since the coup , we have paid a billion and a half dollars to the Gaza Strip , " Abbas said , referring to the 2007 overthrow of his Fatah movement by Hamas in Gaza . <p> " We will not allow this to continue , " the WAFA official Palestinian news agency reported him as saying in Arabic . <p> " Either things will go as they are meant to be , or we will continue to reduce these funds , " he said , accusing Hamas of stealing some of the funds . <p> The Islamist group responded late Saturday in a statement : " Attacking Hamas and threatening the people of Gaza with more sanctions is a blow to reconciliation efforts . " <p> It accused Abbas 's Palestinian Authority of working with Israel to isolate Gaza and bring suffering to its people . <p> Both sides have previously committed to reconciliation , but repeated attempts have failed . <p> The Palestinian Authority had been paying for some electricity to be delivered to Gaza since 2007 , but in recent months has reduced the amount . <p> Gazans now receive only a couple of hours of electricity a day , delivered from the territory 's own power station and others in Israel and Egypt . <p> The Palestinian Authority has also cut stipends to its former Gaza staff forced out of office by Hamas , in a move analysts see as seeking to sow discontent in the enclave . <h> more from times of india News <h> Comments <p> Characters Remaining : 3000 <h> OR PROCEED WITHOUT REGISTRATION <p> Share on FacebookShare on Twitter <h> SIGN IN WITH <p> FacebookGoogleEmail <p> Refrain from posting comments that are obscene , defamatory or inflammatory , and do not indulge in personal attacks , name calling or inciting hatred against any community . Help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive . Let 's work together to keep the conversation civil . <p> The flexi fare scheme was launched on September 9 last year . The scheme is applicable in Rajdhani , Shatabdi and Duronto trains . Railways made changes in the flexi fare structure to attract last minute travellers and introduced a range of discounts . 
@@19877582 <h> America 's dangerous anti-Iran posturing <p> Iran is on the same side as the US in opposing the Islamic State and is a democracy . Photo : AFP <p> In recent weeks , US President Donald Trump and his advisers have joined Saudi Arabia in accusing Iran of being the epicentre of Middle East terrorism . The US Congress , meanwhile , is readying yet another round of sanctions against Iran . But the caricature of Iran as " the tip of the spear " of global terrorism , in Saudi King Salman 's words , is not only wrongheaded , but dangerous , because it could lead to yet another Middle East war . <p> In fact , that seems to be the goal of some US hotheads , despite the obvious fact that Iran is on the same side as the US in opposing the Islamic State ( IS ) . And then there 's the fact that Iran , unlike most of its regional adversaries , is a functioning democracy . Ironically , the escalation of US and Saudi rhetoric came just two days after Iran 's 19 May election , in which moderates led by incumbent President Hassan Rouhani defeated their hardline opponents at the ballot box . <p> Perhaps for Trump , the pro-Saudi , anti-Iran embrace is just another business proposition . He beamed at Saudi Arabia 's decision to buy $110 billion of new US weapons , describing the deal as " jobs , jobs , jobs " , as if the only gainful employment for American workers requires them to stoke war . And who knows what deals for Trump and his family might also be lurking in his warm embrace of Saudi belligerence . <p> America 's anti-Iran animus goes back to the 1979 Islamic Revolution . For the US public , the 444-day ordeal of the US embassy staff held hostage by radical Iranian students constituted a psychological shock that has still not abated . The hostage drama dominated the US media from start to finish , resulting in a kind of public post-traumatic stress disorder similar to the social trauma of the 9/11 attacks a generation later . <p> For most Americans , then and now , the hostage crisis -- and indeed the Iranian Revolution itself -- was a bolt out of the blue . Few Americans realize that the Iranian Revolution came a quarter-century after the Central Intelligence Agency and Britain 's intelligence agency conspired in 1953 to overthrow the country 's democratically elected government and install a police state under the Shah of Iran , to preserve Anglo-American control over Iran 's oil , which was threatened by nationalization . Nor do most Americans realize that the hostage crisis was precipitated by the ill-considered decision to admit the deposed Shah into the US for medical treatment , which many Iranians viewed as a threat to the revolution . <p> During the Reagan administration , the US supported Iraq in its war of aggression against Iran , including Iraq 's use of chemical weapons . When the fighting finally ended in 1988 , the US followed up with financial and trade sanctions on Iran that remain in place to this day . Since 1953 , the US has opposed Iran 's self-rule and economic development through covert action , support for authoritarian rule during 1953-79 , military backing for its enemies , and decades-long sanctions . <p> Another reason for America 's anti-Iran animus is Iran 's support for Hezbollah and Hamas , two militant antagonists of Israel . Here , too , it is important to understand the historical context . <p> In 1982 , Israel invaded Lebanon in an attempt to crush militant Palestinians operating there . In the wake of that war , Iran supported the formation of the Shia-led Hezbollah to resist Israel 's occupation of southern Lebanon . By the time Israel withdrew from Lebanon in 2000 , nearly 20 years after its original invasion , Hezbollah had become a formidable military , political , and social force , and a continuing thorn in Israel 's side . <p> Iran also supports Hamas , a hardline Sunni group that rejects Israel 's right to exist . Following decades of Israeli occupation of Palestinian lands captured in the 1967 war , and with peace negotiations stalemated , Hamas defeated Fatah in the 2006 election for the Palestinian parliament . Rather than entering into a dialogue with Hamas , the US and Israel decided to crush it , including through a brutal war in Gaza in 2014 . <p> Israel also views Iran 's nuclear programme as an existential threat . Hardline Israelis sought to convince the US to attack Iran 's nuclear facilities , or at least allow Israel to do so . Former president Barack Obama resisted , and instead negotiated a treaty between Iran and the five permanent members of the UN Security Council ( plus Germany ) that blocks Iran 's path to nuclear weapons for a decade or more , creating space for further confidence-building measures on both sides . Yet Trump and the Saudis seem intent on destroying the possibility of normalizing relations created by this important and promising agreement . <p> External powers are foolish to allow themselves to be manipulated into taking sides in bitter national or sectarian conflicts that can be resolved only by compromise . The Israel-Palestine conflict , the competition between Saudi Arabia and Iran , and the Sunni-Shia relationship all require mutual accommodation . Yet each side in these conflicts harbours the tragic illusion of achieving an ultimate victory without the need to compromise , if only the US ( or some other major power ) will fight the war on its behalf . 
@@19982282 <h> The Life of Labour : Compensation For Odisha 's " Village of Widows " , The Politics of Migration <h> Share this : <h> The Life of Labour , a compilation of important labour developments from around the world , will be delivered to your inbox every Sunday at 10 am . Click here to subscribe . <p> Illustration by Aliza Bakht <p> Finally , compensation for Odisha 's ' village of widows ' <p> The Hindureports that " A labour court in Odisha 's Keonjhar district has awarded a compensation of Rs. 46 lakh to the families of those whose bread-winning male members died of silicosis , a preventable occupational lung disease . " As mentioned in an EPW editorial , " The 16 men , from Madarangajodi village in Keonjhar district , who died had worked in a unit that ground pyrophyllite into powder . In the process , they were inhaling silica dust without being aware of the consequences . Over time , their lungs collapsed and the men died , as silicosis is incurable . They left behind what was called , a ' village of widows ' . " <p> The issue came out into the open after an Angul-based NGO moved the National Human Rights Commission which then launched an investigation into the matter . Both The Hindu and EPW state that the fatalities could 've been avoided had basic safety equipment been provided . <p> In Rajasthan , miners perish as they wait for silicosis compensation <p> Mine workers who contract silicosis should be compensated with Rs 1 lakh for treatment and their families should receive Rs 3 lakh when they die . These are NHRC recommendations , upheld by the Supreme Court in numerous cases . Even as documented cases of silicosis are on the rise , many mine workers and their families have received no compensation for lack of proper documents or because they are illiterate and find it difficult to negotiate the bureaucracy . In a recent article , Hindustan Timesexposes state apathy , the laxity of mine owners and the red tape that forces many families that have suffered the loss of their bread winner to the mines , send their children back to the ' killing fields ' . The HT article documents the situation and leaves us with many pressing questions . <p> Is the construction sector risking workers ' lives in the interest of profit ? <p> Workers in the construction industry also suffer grave occupational hazards in-spite of legislations to protect workers . An NDTV report records this systemic failure by investigating the construction sector in Mumbai . The report hints that the lack of inspection by labour inspectors is the principal reason why construction companies and contractors often neglect basic safety procedures . This exposes the workers to unnecessary risks in the interest of maximising profit . <p> Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has sought a 3-month extension to implement a Supreme Court order on providing permanent jobs for conservancy workers who have served for over 240 days . Putting the onus on the workers , BMC has claimed that only 200 of the 1600 workers who had filed the initial petition have valid documents , making it difficult to verify . Given that muster rolls and attendance records have to be maintained properly , it is not clear why BMC can not easily verify who it employed over 240 days . Milind Ranade , general secretary of the Kachra Vahtuk Shramik Sangh ( KVSS ) , said , " If the verification has already been conducted once and the High Court and the Supreme Court have recognised it , why does the BMC need to take up the process all over again ? This goes against the Supreme Court order . The BMC is doing this only to deny the rights of the conservancy workers . " <p> Other News <p> Film technicians in Tamilnadu , represented by FEFSI , went on a three-day strike demanding that Tamilnadu Producers Council should not break the wage agreement signed a year ago . The strike was withdrawn after the labour department called for talks . <p> Central trade unions have called for a massive protest in New Delhi between 9th to 11th of November to put pressure on the central government to discuss the 12-point charter of demands . The joint statement issued by the CTUs stated that " the convention noted with utter dismay that the government has been continuing to arrogantly ignore the 12-point charter of demands on minimum wage , social security , workers ' status , and pay and facilities for the scheme workers against privatization and mass scale contractorisation , etc , being jointly pursued by the entire trade union movement of the country " . <p> Update : Workers of JK tyres in Chennai , who were on a strike since July 24 , withdrew their strike after 17 days when the company agreed to their demands to reinstate 27 dismissed workers after August 21 and conduct elections to recognize the majority union . Read more at Thozhilalar Koodam . <p> International : <p> Gaza in Palestine , suffering from years of economic blockade by Israel , is reeling under severe crisis and extreme poverty . This is forcing many children to take to work at the cost of their education . This article on UNICEF 's website recounts their stories while appealing for help . <p> Weekend Reading : <p> Radhika Krishnan explores the link between labour politics and environmentalism and hones in on the ' red and green ' of the Chattisgarh Mukti Morcha . Read the full paper here . <p> Which Indians migrate and why ? An excerpt from the review of Politics of Migration : Indian Emigration in a Globalized World in EPW : The first chapter of the book is devoted to dispelling some myths about international migration that have their base in " migration theory . " The authors believe that too much emphasis has been laid on economic compulsions , that is , on the proposition that people migrate from poor regions lacking employment and good living conditions to rich regions that provide these conditions . They argue that data shows migrants do not always belong to poor countries or poorest communities within a country . It is not poverty but the structural changes that accompany development , and the creation of markets that motivate migration . They observe " there is a close empirical correspondence between the onset of industrialisation and the beginnings of international migration " . The fact that the poorest are unable to migrate is well accepted in the literature on migration , given the financial and psychological costs involved in the process . Read more here . <p> Liked the story ? We 're a non-profit . Make a donation and help pay for our journalism . <h> Twitter <h> Acknowledgment <p> The Independent and Public Spirited Media Foundation has provided financial support to the Foundation for Independent Journalism ( FIJ ) for the purpose of reporting and publishing stories of public interest . IPSMF does not take any legal or moral responsibility whatsoever for the content published by FIJ on their website thewire.in or on any of its other platforms . 
@@20047926 <h> His journalism was part of the Palestinian resistance : Israel cancels Al Jazeera reporter 's press credentials <p> By IANS Published : 17th August 2017 10:05 AM <p> Last Updated : 17th August 2017 10:05 AM A+A A- <p> 0 <h> Share Via Email <p> Al Jazeera 's Jerusalem office seen on August 8 , 2017 . ( Photo AP ) <p> JERUSALEM : Israeli authorities have cancelled the press credentials of an Al Jazeera reporter , after he said his journalism was part of the Palestinian " resistance " . <p> Communications Minister Ayoub Kara approved the move on Wednesday night as part of his efforts to shut down the Qatari-owned cable news channel in Israel , reports The Jerusalem Post . <p> Elias Karam , a senior reporter at Al Jazeera 's Jerusalem bureau , said in an interview to the Muslim Brotherhood TV channel Dar Al-Iman in May 2016 : " As a Palestinian journalist who is in an occupied area or a conflict area , journalistic work is an integral part of the resistance and of political and educational action . <p> " A journalist fulfils his role in the resistance through his pen , voice or camera , because he is part of this nation and is resisting in his unique way , " he added . <p> Karam has been asked to attend a hearing , at which Israel 's Government Press Organisation will make a final decision about his credentials . <p> The GPO said Karam 's comments call into question his ability to be a professional journalist , representing a foreign network , if he is taking an active part in the conflict . <p> Karam , 40 , is an Israeli citizen who resides in Nazareth , and has had a GPO card as an Al Jazeera reporter since 2011 , The Jerusalem Post reported . <p> Earlier this month , Kara announced plans to close Al Jazeera 's Jerusalem office and stop the channel from being broadcast in Israel , on grounds of incitement . <p> Foreign journalists need to hold GPO cards to enter official events and to get in and out of the West Bank and Gaza Strip . 
@@20269246 <h> Startling ancient accuracy <p> Much of mathematics derives from or can be reduced to the properties of triangles . An ancient scrap of a clay tablet , unearthed early in the last century in Iraq , has been found to present the properties of triangles with unprecedented sophistication and accuracy . <p> Interpretation of the markings on the tablet , which has only now been worked out , has been found to displace the Greeks of the sixth century BCE as originators of the field of trigonometry , handing the position over to the Babylonians of a thousand years before . <p> Daniel F Mansfield and N J Wildberger of the University of New South Wales , Sydney , Australia in their paper in the journal , Historia Mathematica , demonstrate that the markings on the tablet represent real mathematical computation of great complexity , rather than an " unwitting creation of an effective trigonometric table " , as has been suggested . The place of ancient Greek geometers as the forerunners of mathematics has been undisputed . <p> While Euclid formalised the study of lines , circles , angles and areas , there is a special place for his predecessor , Archimedes , who made a seminal discovery about the right-angled triangle . This property , that squares drawn on the two shorter sides of a rightangled triangle are equal in area to the square drawn on the longest side , leads to the idea that the ratio of the sides of a right-angled triangle stays unchanged when the triangle grows or shrinks and depends only on the two lesser angles in the triangle . <p> The fact that this is the relationship among the sides of all triangles of the same shape leads to a way to measure the angles , marked as and ? in the picture , based on the lengths of the sides . The ratio of the shorter sides to the longest , for different angles , ? and ? , have been worked out and tabulated as the so-called trigonometric tables . <p> These tables , which state the ratios for all possible angles -- correct to less or more decimal places -- are of great use to scientists and engineers . Given the length of one side of a right-angled triangle , we are able to work out the lengths of the other sides with the help of the other angles and a set of trigonometric tables . <p> The lengths of the sides of the triangle in the example shown are all whole numbers . Whole numbers , where the sum of the squares of two of the numbers is the square of the third number , like in a right-angled triangle , exists only for certain triads , or groups of three , of whole numbers . These sets of three numbers are known as Pythagorean triples . In such cases , the ratio of the lengths of the sides , and hence a measure of the angles in the triangle , can be worked out with great accuracy . <p> In other cases , lengths need to be measured and the ratios are approximations . In principle , there is a triad of whole numbers that represents the ratio of the sides of any right-angled triangle , but discovering this triad , or the relevant Pythagorean triple , is not a trivial matter . Other methods of working out these ratios , for pairs of lines that meet at an angle , were developed in later years . The Greek , Hipparchus , of the second century BCE developed a way by using chords of a circle . <p> Madhava of the Kerala School of Astronomy , in the 14th century , developed a way using the sum of many terms of an infinite series of reducing fractions and this was followed later by Leibniz of Germany and others . The Babylonian artefact , catalogued as Plimpton 322 as it was sourced by the publisher , George Arthur Plimpton , is a clay tablet with 15 rows of sets of three numbers engraved in cuneiform . <p> The notable feature of the engraving is that the three numbers in each set are related to Pythagorean triples . Specifically , the second and third numbers are the shortest and the longest sides of right-angled triangles , while the first number is related to the third side . <p> The origin of the tablet has been placed at Larsa , an ancient Sumerian city near the Persian Gulf and its antiquity , by comparison with other Old Babylon scripts , has been placed at between 1822 and 1762 BCE . The tablet itself is 12.8 cm by 8.8 cm in size and contains the 15 rows of writing , each with the sets of three numbers and then a serial number . <p> The numbers are written in the Babylonian sexagesimal number system , or numbers with a base of 60 , in place of the base of 10 in our decimal system . There are thus separate symbols for the numbers from 1 to 59 ( zero is denoted by a space ) and the number 60 would be represented by the symbol for " one " , followed by a space , to form " 10 " , or one time the base ( 60 ) plus zero units . This system of counting , the paper explains , is richer and enables much higher exactness than the decimal system . <p> The Old Babylon mathematics also looks at triangles from the point of view of the lengths of the three sides , without the notion of the angles , the paper says . Modern trigonometric tables , which scientists and engineers use , are lists , for a range of angles , of the ratios of the sides of a right-angled triangle where the longest side is one unit long . <p> The Plimpton 322 tablet , on the other hand , the paper says , is a series of sets of three whole numbers , where each set allows the ratios of the trigonometric table to be calculated , for a useful range of slope of triangles , with great accuracy . With this interpretation , the paper says , the Babylonian tablet becomes not only the oldest recorded trigonometric table but also the most accurate one to date , as it is exact , with no approximation ! This function of the Plimpton tablet has been an unanswered question . <p> Ever since the markings on Plimpton 322 were identified as Pythagorean triples , there has been extensive research into how the Babylonians may have worked out the numbers out and why they did it . The University of New South Wales authors review some suggestions , like the tablet being a teacher 's aide or a representation of a class of right angled triangles and succeed in showing that these can not be the case . <p> On the other hand , they do show that the 15 rows provide a mechanism to evaluate dimensions of triangles that correspond to angles from 45o to 59o , a range that would be relevant in normal construction work . <p> The paper reviews the tradition of Old Babylon mathematics , the geometry devised for civil work , and the Egyptian ratio-based measurements used to describe pyramids . And several other pieces of evidence , of ratios used to represent a slope , lead to a " ratio based framework for the study of triangles " , without the use of the angle as a metric , the paper says . <p> And there are examples , like finding the length of a side of the Great Pyramid of Gaza , given the height and the width of the base . The tablet of Babylon gives a better answer than the procedure that uses the table of Madhava ! 
@@20278342 <h> Gaza man cured of ' tree man disease ' after years of living as a recluse <p> DECCAN CHRONICLE <p> Published Aug 30 , 2017 , 4:51 pm IST <p> Updated Aug 30 , 2017 , 4:51 pm IST <p> Mohammed Taluli was so afraid of showing his infected hands to others that he hid in his house for a decade . <p> He is left with burn like wounds after the surgery ( Photo : YouTube ) <p> Several rare conditions causing shocking deformities have been reported from across the globe , but the lack of awareness about them often leaves people in worse conditions . Superstitions or stigma associated with such disorders can force patients into hiding out of fear of discrimination . <p> Mohammed Taluli from Gaza had been suffering from a terrible disease which caused lesions similar to the bark of a tree on his hand . But the fear of what people would say about him caused the man to become a recluse as he hid in his house and did n't go out in public . <p> A decade later , the 42-year-old suffering from the tree man disease has been cured as his life is on the road to normalcy . For ten years , Taluli lived in constant fear of situations where he would have to show his affected hands to people as he was concerned about his reactions . <p> The treatment has left Taluli without any skin on the hands and doctors grafted skin from other parts of the body to cover wounds . Even though there is no literature mentioning the disease as a contagious one , doctors wore double gloves out of fear of infection . <p> As of now Mohammed Taluli is recovering steadily as burn like wounds left from the surgery are healing , and doctors are hopeful he will get back to a normal life soon. 
@@20285770 <h> UN chief calls for lifting of Gaza blockade <p> " I am deeply moved to be in Gaza today , unfortunately to witness one of the most dramatic humanitarian crises that I ' ' ve seen in many years working as a humanitarian in the United Nations , " Guterres said . <p> UN chief Antonio Guterres called for the blockade of the Gaza Strip to be lifted today as he visited the Palestinian enclave enduring " one of the most dramatic humanitarian crises " he had seen . <p> " I am deeply moved to be in Gaza today , unfortunately to witness one of the most dramatic humanitarian crises that I 've seen in many years working as a humanitarian in the United Nations , " Guterres said . <p> He later said it was " important to open the closures , " in a reference to Israel 's decade-long blockade of Gaza and to the border with Egypt that has remained largely closed in recent years . <p> Guterres made the comments at a school run by the UN agency for Palestinian refugees , UNRWA , in the northern Gaza Strip . Palestinian militants in Gaza and Israel have fought three wars since 2008 . <p> Israel says the blockade is necessary to keep Islamist movement Hamas , which runs the enclave , from obtaining weapons or materials that could be used to make them . <p> Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi today said the 73-day stand-off between India and China in Dokalam ended after India withdrew its troops and asked New Delhi to " learn lessons " and prevent such incidents in future . 
