@@20046455 <h> Saudi Arabia : Luxury Red Sea resort permitting women in bikinis <h> Exposes Saudi tyrants ' disrespect to Islam to please westerners <p> by Latheef Farook <p> ( August 17 , 2017 , Colombo , Sri Lanka Guardian ) Plans by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman , heir to the throne and a United States-Israeli stooge , to open a luxury beach resort where women can sun bathe wearing bikinis sent shock waves all over . The Red Sea resort will be across 125 miles of coastline and 50 reef-fringed untouched natural islands of a lagoon steeped in nature and culture . <p> This country , birthplace of Islam and the site of two most important holy cities , Makkah and Madinah , has been interwoven with the history of Islam . <p> Thus , it has been dear to the hearts of Muslims worldwide , who look up to rulers of this land for leadership , guidance and spreading the message of Islam . <p> As such one can not even think of a resort allowing women to wear bikini to promote degenerated western culture . I thought the plan could provoke negative response at least outside Middle East . However , I was disappointed . That is the sickening of Muslims worldwide today . <p> At first , I thought the report was yet another canard by the western media against Islam and Muslims . However , within hours one after the other international news agencies began providing details of the planned resort . <p> Added to these reports Saudi Public Investment Fund , PIF , of which Mohammed bin Salman is the chairman , announced that it will finance the project which will be completed by 2022 . Most foreigners will be able to fly straight into the tourism zone without visa . According to PIF announcement the project will allow women to sunbathe in bikinis alongside men- ( in complete violation of Islamic principles ) . <p> This prove that Saudi tyrants , described by the western media as head choppers , have gone mad in their drive to please their United States and Israeli masters , sworn enemies of Islam and Muslims , to protect their power and billions of dollars of investments in US robbed from the country 's wealth . <p> However , the predictions are that this ridiculous plan is unlikely to succeed . The need of the hour is not bikini tourism but religious tourism . This is the land full of Islamic history and heritage . This should be made known to Muslims and non-Muslims alike to educate people worldwide about rich Islamic history which is kept hidden from the world . <p> On the other hand , important centres of Islamic heritage are not the exclusive property of Saudi tyrants . It belongs to the entire Muslim ummah which remains disorganised and fast asleep . <p> However , this was not something unexpected of Saudi rulers in view of their hostile records towards Islam and Muslims . The entire system of disgusting royal family with special powers , rights and privileges claiming ownership to the entire country including its brutalized people , treated as herd , is completely alien to Islam which liberated humanity from all forms of bondages more than 14 centuries ago . <p> It is worthy to note that several independent research works disclosed that the Saudi ruling family descended from a Jewish tribe in Madinah which caused immense hardships to Prophet Muhammad ( PBUH ) in spreading the message of Islam . <p> In the aftermath of the World War 11 , British and French imperial powers which defeated Turkey 's Ottoman Empire and brought the Middle East under their control divided the region into nation states and installed degenerated secular Arab stooges in power . In the process Britain and Zionist Jews carefully screened , selected and installed Saud family in power in the holy land . <p> Saudi ruler Salman awarding the country 's highest award and honouring US President Donald Trump , sworn enemey of Islam and Muslims who banned Muslims from seven countries entering US and massacred Afghan and Syrian Muslims . <p> They were heavily bribed and armed by Britain and the Zionist Jews . Since the discovery of oil this family virtually became dependent and satellite of US which is ruled by pro-Israeli Jewish lobbies . <p> In turning to US , the Saudi regime has placed itself in an extremely delicate position where it needs to fulfil its deceptive obligations towards Islam and Muslims while maintaining relations with forces ruling the Christian West . <p> Therefore , paddling through these waters , without hurting either was no easy task , especially because of US destructive political and military designs against Muslim Middle East and elsewhere under the guise of fighting what it described as " War on Terror " . <p> Since the collapse of former Soviet Union in 1989 , US-UK and Israel together with France , Russia and with the collaboration of Arab tyrants began bombing and destroying Muslim countries and killing Muslims . This began with Bosnia , Kosovo , Afghanistan , Chechnya , Somalia , Kuwait , Iraq , Somalia , Libya , Syria and continues unabated . <p> Thus , one after the Muslim countries were turned into graveyards with their infrastructure destroyed and innocent people massacred , uprooted and driven away from their homes . Saudi regime not only sided with US but financed most of these wars and paved the way for strengthening Israel 's foothold in the region . <p> In the midst Saudis ' stupid war on poverty stricken Yemeni Muslims not only killed around 18,000 innocent men , women , children and the aged but also turned the country into a grave yard . <p> Implementing the Israeli agenda against Islam , Saudi tyrants played decisive role spending billions to topple Islamic governments in Algeria , Egypt and even Hamas run Gaza strip which the Israelis bombed , destroyed infrastructure and killed around 8000 Palestinians . <p> Now it started to emerge that Israel and Saudi Arabia are two sides of the same anti-Muslim coin and the wars in the Middle East help Israel achieve its dream of Greater Israel covering regions in Jordan , Syria , Lebanon and even parts of Egypt and Lebanon as planned by the Zionist . This was possible only because of Saudi treacherous collaboration with US-Israeli war mongers . <p> Today the situation is such that the Saudi regime has entrusted security during the annual Hajj to an Israeli company drawing severe condemnation of from Imam Al Aqsa Masjid in Jerusalem Sheikh Ekrima Sa'ad Sabri . <p> This shameful dependence reached its pinnacle when Saudi ruler Salman awarded the nation 's highest award to US President Donald Trump , sworn enemy of Islam and Muslims , who officially banned people from seven Muslim countries to enter US and indiscriminately bombed and massacred Afghans and Syrians . <p> Added to this insult was the role played by Saudi 's mercenary mullahs who described Donald Trump 's meeting in Riyadh as " blessed summit " . This is the lowest depth to which the so called Saudi mullahs descended for survival . Saudi funded mullahs are all over the world who preach Islam to suit Saudi agenda . <p> This was the worst ever humiliation in the known history of Islam . The irony is that this very same ruler has declared himself the Custodian of Two Holy Mosques in Makkah and Madinah . The question is how can such a ruler claim to be the Custodian of Mosques in Makkah and Medina . Unfortunately , this is the reality in today 's world where Muslims were persecuted and killed worldwide only because they are Muslims . <p> Saudi rulers care a damn for Islam and Muslims . They buy tyrants who rule Arab and Muslim countries and continue their iron grip on the holy places with the support of US-UK-Europe and Israel . <p> Under Saudi laws , not Islamic laws , women were oppressed and were not even given their basic rights . This is the medieval tribal law and nothing to do with Islam which liberated women and given their rights and freedom what the so called modern women in the west could not even dream of until middle of last century . <p> Unfortunately , pro Jewish and anti-Muslim western media distort the Saudi barbarity towards women as Islamic law to demonise Islam to suit US led war agenda . Saudi tyrants also distorted Islam by introducing their own version called Wahhabism . <p> It was under such circumstance comes the plan to establish a holiday resort allowing bikinis . There is nothing much the oppressed people could do other than crying their hearts out . With an aging ruler and a reckless crown prince asserting himself manipulated by USD and Israel it appears much more shocks to come . Only Allah knows what is in store for these tyrants and their Judeo-Christian war mongers . Ends <h> About Us <p> The Sri Lanka Guardian is a non-profit web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists , activists , academics and retired civil servants . This portal is currently a platform for over hundred regular writers from around the world . Email : **25;163;TOOLONG Websites : www.slguardian.org and www.slguardian.org/si <h> WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT US <h> Some of those International Media who featured us <p> 2007-2017 Sri Lanka Guardian has been providing breaking news &amp; views for the progressive community since 2007 . We are independent and non-profit . Our work is licensed under a Creative Commons **36;190;TOOLONG 4.0 International License . 
@@20081631 <h> Real cost of armed conflicts in the Arab region <p> ( August 19 , 2017 , Geneva , Sri Lanka Guardian ) The war in Syria has now entered its 6th year and is becoming the world 's worst man-made disaster . The humanitarian calamity in Syria has affected millions of lives ; more than half of Syria 's pre-war population has been forced to flee , including 6.3 million internally displaced persons and 5.1 million refugees living in refugee camps in the Middle East and in Europe . It is also estimated that approximately 100,000 civilians have lost their lives because of this enduring conflict with no immediate end in sight . According to UNHCR and the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre , at least 3 million Iraqis have been displaced as a result of the civil strife in Iraq . Iraq Body Count estimates that more than 50% of the war-related deaths -- following the 2003 Iraq invasion -- were civilians . In Yemen , the United Nations estimates that more than 10,000 civilians have perished from the fighting between Yemeni government forces and the Houthi rebels . On top of this , IOM and UNHCR estimates that around 3 million Yemeni civilians have been displaced from their homes since the beginning of the conflict . The high civilian tolls witnessed in these conflicts reveal that civilians are increasingly bearing the burden of armed conflicts in the Arab region . <p> The theme of the 2017 World Humanitarian Day -- Civilians caught in conflict are not a target -- reaffirm the vision expressed in the 10 May 2017 report of the United Nations Secretary-General on the protection of civilians in armed conflict calling for " collective action to strengthen the protection of civilians in armed conflict . " A " global protection crisis " has emerged -- noted the Secretary General in the same report -- owing to the rise of use of force of which civilians are ultimately the main victims . Since the end of World War II , it is estimated that between 60-90% of war-related deaths are primarily among civilians . Civilians have become the primary casualties of war in the 21st century . <p> The irregular and black market arms trade have fuelled the rise of violent and extremist groups in numerous countries in the Arab region . The illicit arms trade has enabled terrorist groups to thrive in countries affected by conflict and violence . Disturbing images of civilian infrastructure such as schools and hospitals being bombed in Palestine , in Syria and in Iraq show that civilian infrastructure is increasingly being targeted by belligerents . Although the Arms Trade Treaty sought to regulate the international arms trade , the flow of arms and weapons to violent and extremist groups continues to fuel bloody conflicts in the Arab region owing to the lack of ratification of the Treaty by the member states of the United Nations . <p> Warfare and armed conflicts are increasingly being fought in urban centres in the Arab region . It has brought the war closer to people . The pattern of modern warfare has changed : Battles that were once fought in the unpopulated shores of Normandie and in the desert of El Alamein are now being fought in the urban centres of Gaza , Mosul , Baghdad and Aleppo affecting the lives of millions of civilians . The use of heavy weapons , so-called strategic bombardments and the use of modern technologies such as drones have increased the likelihood of inflicting collateral damage on civilians during armed confclits . The disproportionate use of force has caused immense suffering leading to abuse and to killings of civilians . Collateral damage has emerged as an acceptable term to justify errors and the indiscriminate use of force . <p> In order to respond to the need to provide protection to civilians in armed conflict , the world has a moral responsibility to end the illegal trade of arms and weapons fuelling the growth of violent and extremist groups . States need to ratify the Arms Trade Treaty and comply with its provisions so as to end the illicit arms trade that is currently estimated to lie at around 10 billion US dollars per year . Weapons and arms should not end up in the hands of extremist groups such as DAESH that commit heinous and unscrupulous crimes on civilian populations in the Arab region . <p> I also appeal to the international community to ensure that all parties to conflict comply with their provisions to protect the lives of civilians in line with the provisions set forth in the Convention for the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War commonly known as the Fourth Geneva Convention . Respect for international law must guide the actions of belligerents in armed conflicts . Widespread crimes against humanity affecting civilians must be condemned uniformly by world leaders regardless of where they take place . Civilians should not bear the burden of the devastating consequences of military conflicts . <p> ( The writer is the Chairman of the Geneva Centre for Human Rights Advancement and Global Dialogue ) <h> About Us <p> The Sri Lanka Guardian is a non-profit web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists , activists , academics and retired civil servants . This portal is currently a platform for over hundred regular writers from around the world . Email : **25;93;TOOLONG Websites : www.slguardian.org and www.slguardian.org/si <h> WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT US <h> Some of those International Media who featured us <p> 2007-2017 Sri Lanka Guardian has been providing breaking news &amp; views for the progressive community since 2007 . We are independent and non-profit . Our work is licensed under a Creative Commons **36;120;TOOLONG 4.0 International License . 
@@20099700 <h> Escape from Aleppo <h> Wheels had to be cut off the cages to fit them into a commercial aircraft . Finding the right tool to do this in the middle of the night in Istanbul was another challenge . <p> by Eric S. Margolis writes from Amman , Jordan <p> ( August 20 , 2017 , Amman , Sri Lanka Guardian ) I have n't seen many miracles in my decades of travel around the globe , particularly not in the strife-torn Mideast . <p> But last week I participated in a real miracle in Jordan as the splendid Four Paws International group staged a daring rescue of 13 wild animals trapped in the wartime hellhole of Aleppo , Syria . It appeared to be a mission impossible . <p> Syria has been torn apart for the past six years by a bloody civil war that has killed over 400,000 people and reduced many parts of this beautiful country to ruins . Half the population has become refugees . The ancient northern city of Aleppo , Syria 's largest , was laid waste . <p> Just outside Aleppo lies a wrecked 40-acre amusement park cum zoo that once held hundreds of imprisoned wild animals to entertain children . The animals were abandoned in their cages in the midst of constant gunfire and shelling . Many were killed ; the rest were left to starve to death or die of thirst . Some starving Syrians shared their meager rations with the animals . <p> No one else cared about these abandoned creatures that included five lions , two tigers , two Asian black bears , two hyenas and two Husky dogs . <p> But the Vienna-based Four Paws Charity did , and so did I. Four Paws had rescued a majestic lion named Simba and a charming honey-colored bear named Lula from Iraq 's abandoned Mosul zoo . Both had been starving . I agreed to sponsor much of the rescue operation in Aleppo . <p> I spent a morning in the New Hope Refuge outside Amman , Jordan , presided over by Jordan 's Princess Alia , the king 's sister . Over lunch , she showed remarkable compassion and understanding for wild animals . <p> Previously , Four Paws , led by its veterinarian , Dr. Amir Khalil , had rescued numerous starving or sick animals from the ghastly zoo in Gaza , Palestine . <p> Last week , a security team engaged by Four Paws International finally entered war-ravaged Aleppo which is besieged by feuding jihadist bands supported by competing outside powers that include al-Qaida and even Israel . Throw in Kurds , Turks , the Syrian government , Iranians , Hezbollah and the US for a total madhouse -- and a very dangerous one . <p> Risking their lives , the security team managed to get around the jihadists and then into the Aleppo zoo . Over two trips , the thirteen remaining animals were coaxed into cages , then lifted onto flatbed trucks . Then the convoy headed for the Turkish border . This was the second attempt . A previous one had been held at the border , then forced to turn back . <p> The daring rescue team had to negotiate with the bands of trigger-happy jihadists surrounding them . A team of well-armed ' security consultants ' came in to guard the convoy escaping from Aleppo . There was talk that the Israeli army might come to aid the animals , or a Turkish-backed militia . In any event , the little mercy convoy finally got to the Turkish border under the cover of darkness . <p> But the gate leading into Turkey was locked . Four Paws , with the help of Turkish volunteers , managed to talk the guards into opening it -- yet another small miracle . <p> The animals were then driven for over 24 hours to an animal sanctuary near Bursa , south of Istanbul . There , one of the tigers , an imposing male that I named Sultan , went into cardiac arrest . Another wonderful veterinarian , Dr. Frank Goeritz , got into his cage and managed to bring him back to life , warning his aides ' leave the gate open in case he wakes up . ' Sultan was saved . <p> Wheels had to be cut off the cages to fit them into a commercial aircraft . Finding the right tool to do this in the middle of the night in Istanbul was another challenge . <p> After long delays , the mercy flight finally got to Amman where we met them at 5:30 am . Four Paws director Heli Dungler was waiting with us . Thanks to the patronage of Princess Alia we got the animals through border controls and then onto flat-bed trucks for a two hour journey north to the al-Ma'wa animal refuge near the ancient Roman city of Jerash . Drivers on the road could not believe their eyes as our convoy of big predators rolled by . <p> After a labor of Hercules , the heavy cages were unloaded from the trucks and the 13 new residents were gently introduced into their new enclosures . The animals were of course confused , exhausted and testy , but we were thrilled that our wards were finally safe in their new homes . <p> We humans were also exhausted , but elated . I had slept no more than a few hours for days and was groggy from jet lag and fatigue . But Four Paws had achieved the impossible and shone a beacon of humanity into the boiling darkness of Syria 's civil war . <p> As a final sign of good karma , lioness Dana gave birth to a feisty little girl who begins her life in a far better place . <h> About Us <p> The Sri Lanka Guardian is a non-profit web portal founded in August 2007 by a group of concerned Sri Lankan citizens including journalists , activists , academics and retired civil servants . This portal is currently a platform for over hundred regular writers from around the world . Email : **25;0;TOOLONG Websites : www.slguardian.org and www.slguardian.org/si <h> WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT US <h> Some of those International Media who featured us <p> 2007-2017 Sri Lanka Guardian has been providing breaking news &amp; views for the progressive community since 2007 . We are independent and non-profit . Our work is licensed under a Creative Commons **36;27;TOOLONG 4.0 International License . 
@@20238012 <h> Email Sent <h> Email Sent Fail <p> The UN Secretary General , Ant ? nio Guterres on Sunday embarked on a three visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories to discuss possibilities of restarting the peace process . <p> Mr Guterres is to meet Israeli prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu as well as the Palestinian leaders , visiting both Ramallah in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza strip . <p> His visit comes amid Israeli accusations of international bias . Israel 's deputy foreign minister , Tzipi Hotovely said on Sunday the country would " no longer tolerate anti-Israel bias " . <p> " We are seeking a dramatic change in the way the UN treats Israel . It 's time to place the issue squarely on the table and address it head-on , " he added , threatening to cut off further funding to the UN . 
