@@19794300 <h> Gaza 's junior mechanics <h> Gaza 's junior mechanics <h> 1/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> The hands of Palestinian Mohammed Jundeya , 17 , are seen as he works in a car repair garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 2/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Mohammed Yassin , 18 , works in a car repair garage <p> Reuters <h> 3/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Tamer Yassin , 17 , works in a car repair garage <p> Reuters <h> 4/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Tamer Yassin , 17 , works in a car repair garage <p> Reuters <h> 5/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Ali al-Batniji ( R ) , 18 , poses for a photograph in a car repair garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 6/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Ali al-Batniji ( R ) , 18 , is reflected in a mirror as he works in a car repair garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 7/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Mohammed Jundeya , 17 , works in a car repair garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 8/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Abed al-Majeed Reheem , 18 , poses for a photograph in a car repair garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 9/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Abed al-Majeed Reheem ( R ) , 18 , works in a car repair garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 10/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian boy Mohamoud Yazji , 16 , who works as apprentice mechanic , repairs a car at a garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 11/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian boy Mohammad Dader , 12 , who works as apprentice mechanic , helps his employer at a garage in Gaza City <p> Reuters <h> 12/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Mohammed Yassin , 18 , poses for a photograph in a car repair garage <p> Reuters <h> 13/13 Gaza 's junior mechanics <p> Palestinian Ali al-Batniji ( R ) , 18 , works in a car repair garage <p> Reuters <p> Now , the young woman has graduated from university , giving a moving speech about the challenges she has faced growing up with such trauma , and her hopes for the future . <p> " Remember the girl from the Gaza beach ? She was having a good time with her family , happy and laughing . Israeli occupation naval ships struck them . Her father was killed , four of her sisters , her brother and her aunt . <p> " Her mother was injured , and so were her other four sisters and her brother . She was also injured . She was 12 years old . I am that girl , Huda Ali Ghalia . " <p> The now 23-year-old thanked her mother in particular for encouraging her to study towards a Bachelor 's degree in sharia and law . <p> Huda 's mother joined her on stage to hand her a bouquet of flowers . As the two embraced , the audience gave them a standing ovation . <p> " Huda is not an average person ; she is a piece of every Palestinian . She got into our souls and into our hearts , and it is our duty to take care of her and stand by her , " Adel Awadallah , head of the university , said before giving the student an honorary award . <p> While the Israeli military initially said it was responsible for the bombing , which killed eight civilians and wounded more than 30 during the 2006 summer war between Israel and Hamas , a subsequent Israel Defence Force ( IDF ) investigation found that the explosion had been caused by a Palestinian landmine . <p> Human Rights Watch among other rights groups called for an independent investigation into the incident , which the Israeli authorities declined to take part in. 
@@19846064 <h> A mural depicts President Donald Trump kissing an Israeli army watchtower , part of Israel 's West Bank separation barrier in the West Bank city of Bethlehem . Picture : AP Photo/Nasser Nasser <p> The new drawings , which resemble Banksy 's earlier art , popped up on the edge of Bethlehem , the Palestinian city where the barrier largely consists of a wall of towering slabs of concrete . <p> In one scene , the US president is shown hugging and kissing a real Israeli army watchtower built into the wall , as his left arm reaches around the tower . Little pink hearts flutter from Mr Trump 's mouth . <p> In another drawing , Mr Trump is depicted wearing a Jewish skullcap and placing a hand on a wall - a scene taken from his May visit to Jerusalem 's Western Wall , the holiest site where Jews can pray . <p> A cartoon " thought bubble " next to him says " I 'm going to build you a brother " , a possible reference to Mr Trump 's plans to build a wall between the US and Mexico . <p> It is not clear if the new murals are indeed the work of Banksy . <p> The new graffiti is just a few metres from The Walled Off Hotel , a Palestinian-run guest house that opened earlier this year and sarcastically bills itself as having the " worst view in the world " . <p> The nine-room hotel was decorated with Banksy 's trademark political murals , including one in " Banksy 's Room " that shows a masked Palestinian and a helmeted Israeli soldier in a pillow fight . <p> Banksy has made previous forays into the Palestinian territories . <p> In one secret visit , he drew a painting of a girl pulled upwards by balloons on the barrier facing the hotel . <p> Last year , he is believed to have sneaked into Gaza to draw four street murals , including one on a metal door that depicted the Greek goddess Niobe cowering against the rubble of a destroyed house . <p> The painting , titled Bomb Damage , was drawn on the last remaining part of a two-storey house that was destroyed in the 2014 war between Israel and Gaza 's Hamas rulers . 
@@19876215 <p> A web of formal and informal Israeli-Arab relations and common fears of renewed popular uprisings that could threaten regimes and benefit Islamist groups like the Muslim Brotherhood facilitated Israel 's backing down in the crisis over Jerusalem 's Temple Mount or Haram al Sharif , home to Islam 's third most holy shrine , the Al Aqsa mosque . <p> Protests in recent weeks that forced Israel to lift restrictions on access and dismantle security arrangements installed on a site that evokes deep-seated emotions among Muslims and Jews alike had all the makings of a popular revolt and could yet prove to be a catalyst in approaches to Palestinian resistance to Israeli occupation of lands captured half a century ago during the 1967 Middle East war . The security equipment was initially installed after two Palestinians with Israeli nationality shot dead two Israeli policemen in the compound . <p> The spontaneous protests that erupted independent of established political forces such as the Palestinian Authority ( PA ) headed by President Mahmoud Abbas ; Hamas , the Islamist faction that controls the Gaza Strip , and other Palestinian political factions , empowered Palestinian Jerusalemites who live in a part of the city that has been annexed by Israel but feel that they are routinely discriminated against . The dismantling of the security equipment and lifting of restrictions on access constituted a rare instance in which Israel bowed to Palestinian pressure . Former Palestinian information minister-turned activist Mustafa Barghouti said : <p> " We are on the threshold of a big shift . What is going on today is not random or transient . It could be the beginning of a third intifada that is different from the others . What is unique about this is that it 's not individual actions , but a popular movement capable of attracting huge numbers of people . This popular momentum could recharge the Palestinian people . It may take time but we are on the way . It will override the PA . They do n't even know it exists . This will bring about a change in leadership . " <p> The sense of empowerment was evident two days after the Israeli backdown when protests erupted in the Jaffa section of Tel Aviv after police shot dead a Palestinian during a shootout with suspected criminals . ' The policemen have no right to shoot at people . This time we will not keep quiet , ' a Jaffa resident told Ynet News . <p> The notion of an empowered and angry public raised not only the spectre of a possible Palestinian uprising , the third in three decades but a potential return of street protests elsewhere in the Middle East like those that in 2011 toppled the leaders of Egypt , Tunisia , Libya and Yemen . <h> Timing Is Everything <p> The Jerusalem protests erupted at a moment that Saudi Arabia and the UAE have gone to extremes to roll back the 2011 achievements and ensure that the Middle East and North Africa do not witness a repeat . Saudi King Salman , the custodian of Islam 's two most holy cities , Mecca and Medina , in a statement by his royal court , claimed credit for resolving the Al Aqsa crisis through his contacts with world leaders . <p> The Jerusalem protests came on the back of widespread anti-government demonstrations in northern Morocco that have mushroomed since May and more recently expressed an anti-monarchy sentiment . The Moroccan protests , much like the 2011 revolt in Tunisia that forced President out of office , were sparked by the death of a fish vendor in the Riffian city of al Hoceima , who was killed by a trash compactor as he attempted to recover fish confiscated by authorities . <p> King Mohammed VI of Morocco , in a bid to end the unrest , this weekend pardoned more than a thousand people who were under arrest for taking part in the protests . <p> Two incidents , the sentencing of a scion of a key Jordanian tribe to life in prison for killing three Americans at a Jordanian air base and the extradition to Israel of an Israeli security officer who killed two Jordanians to fend off an attack , threaten to take Jordan to the brink . Outrage over the government 's handling of the incidents has called into question a social contract in which Jordanians , in the wake of protests in 2011 , dropped demands for political reform and accepted austerity in exchange for stability . Jordanian member of parliament Saddah Habashneh said : <p> " This has become an issue of dignity . There is a complete lack of trust and resentment toward this government by the people . We are afraid of where we go from this point . " <p> Much more than the Moroccan protests and Jordanian anger , resistance to Israeli actions surrounding the Al Aqsa Mosque had the potential of forcing the hand of Arab autocrats in a post-2011 era in which Arabic public opinion has begun to count . Deep-seated divisions in the Arab world coupled with draconian anti-protest laws may explain the absence of demonstrations in the Middle East and North Africa in support of the Palestinians . <h> The Domino Effect <p> Nonetheless , if Palestinians were to capitalise on their Al Aqsa success to confront Israeli occupation and discrimination , it could spark public dissent elsewhere in the region as well as the wider Muslim world that could turn against local leaders . Continued Palestinian protests , moreover , could complicate cooperation between Israel and conservative Arab states in countering Iranian influence in the Middle East as well as an attempt to return to Palestine a UAE-backed Palestinian leader , who has good relations with key figures in the United States and Israel . <p> Arab rulers have so far been helped not only by the absence of solidarity protests in Arab capitals but also by indications that Arab public opinion may be divided because of the Gulf crisis over attitudes towards the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas , both of which have close ties to Qatar . <p> Ahmed Samah al-Idarusi , a spokesman for the Popular Committee for the Defense of Sinai , a group formed by the Egyptian region 's tribal leaders , complained that " we now encounter Egyptian diplomatic and cultural silence such that even the elites are not capable of releasing a single joint statement of condemnation " of Israeli actions in the Al Aqsa compound . <p> Prominent Israeli commentator Zvi Bar'el noted that , so far , the Al Aqsa protests have not sparked a third Palestinian intifada even though they had all the makings of an uprising . He argued that Palestinians were still traumatised by the political and human cost of the second intifada in the first years of the 21st century that ironically was dubbed the Al Aqsa intifada . <p> " The tragic results of the second intifada -- from both the humanitarian and strategic perspectives -- have been deeply engraved in the collective Palestinian memory . It 's hard to imagine what the expiry date of such trauma is . Perhaps the trauma is still effective -- but it 's best not to put it to the test , " Bar'el said . <p> Get articles like this straight to your inbox each morning with our Breakfast Briefing . Sign up by clicking here ! 
@@19914429 <p> In his longform article on the UFC star Conor McGregor 's roots in the Dublin suburb of Crumlin , ESPN 's Wright Thompson paints a grim picture of the city . Drug dealers hang out on street corners . Bodies pile up as gangs fight for turf . Beatings are administered merely for being on the wrong street at the wrong time , and young lovers are afraid to walk the streets for fear of straying into the wrong territory . <p> It 's a chilling and evocative portrait from a very fine writer . The only problem is that Dublin 's actual inhabitants do n't appear to recognise the city in question . <p> " McGregor 's childhood upbringing in the ' projects ' of Crumlin and Drimnagh suggests he was brought up in the Gaza Strip or 1920s Chicago , not a neighbourhood in which this writer lived for six happy and peaceful years , oblivious to the grenades whizzing by , or the fact that I should have been taking an armed escort whenever I had to cross the Liffey , " wrote Jennifer O'Connell in the Irish Times . <p> Rick O'Shea ( @rickoshea ) <p> Dear @espn . I grew up in both the " projects " *ahem* of Crumlin and Drimnagh . This is lazy stereotyping bullshit of the highest order ... https : //t.co/vAm1ysniFA <p> On Twitter , Dubliners , while acknowledging Crumlin has its problems , were similarly dubious about Thompson 's depiction . The RTE radio presenter Rick O'Shea , who grew up in the area , was particularly withering . " I grew up in both the ' projects ' *ahem* of Crumlin and Drimnagh . This is lazy stereotyping bullshit of the highest order ... " Dave Hannigan suggested international intervention was needed to resolve the problem : " Any word of the United Nations announcement about sending peacekeepers into Crumlin Road to separate the warring factions of troubled Dublin , " he wrote . <p> In an appearance on ESPN after the article 's publication , Thompson once again spoke about McGregor 's tough upbringing . <p> " I think seeing these tough guys in the neighbourhood who were alpha dogs suddenly afraid and unable to leave their house because of a gang war , for Conor and his group of friends , it was very eye-opening , " he said . " As we talked leading up to this fight ... I think he wanted something different than the blue-collar life of his father and he did n't want to be looking over his shoulder for the rest of his life . " <p> This is not the first time that US media 's depiction of the supposed dangers of life in Europe have attracted ridicule . In 2015 , a Fox News commentator claimed : " There are actual cities like Birmingham that are totally Muslim where non-Muslims just simply do n't go in . And , parts of London , there are actually Muslim religious police that actually beat and actually wound seriously anyone who does n't dress according to religious Muslim attire . " 
@@20070275 <h> Why the spirit of Flash gaming must never die <p> From around 2009 to 2011 I edited a Flash gaming blog called Flytrap for AOL . A belated effort to expand the company 's then-considerable downloadable games business , Flytrap was a tawdry , clumsy little thing , all celebrity plugs and clunky-to-implement gallery modules plus the odd dollop of tabloid sleaze . We had daily knock-knock jokes , FarmVille diaries and a section entitled " Hot Manly Action " , though no outright softcore content , thank god . I did n't think too much of my work on Flytrap at the time - it was just there to fill gaps between articles on Real Games like Dead Space 2 or Uncharted . In hindsight , though , it 's clear that I had my heart in the wrong place . Games like Uncharted may be the industry 's obvious peaks , but the ocean they 're poking out of - the bubbling creative firmament without which this artform would be truly impoverished - is Adobe Flash . <p> For many players today , of course , Flash is trash - a rickety plug-in for advergames and obnoxious video pop-ups that has been steadily sidelined by the major browser companies . Just look at the popular outcry , or lack thereof , over the announcement that Adobe will discontinue support in 2020 . It 's worth , then , a quick refresher on what Flash has meant and means . For starters , Flash once meant YouTube . The video service that now attracts around 400 hours of accumulated viewing time a minute began life as a Flash app in 2005 ( the first ever YouTube upload , a video of a co-founder 's trip to the zoo , is still available today and a peculiar artefact indeed ) . Flash also meant FarmVille , the greatest of Facebook 's bucolic time-wasters , and Candy Crush Saga , which made its debut on King.com in 2010 . In fact , there was a period when Flash meant so-called " rich " - that 's to say , animated and/or interactive - browser experiences full stop . <p> Nitrome has always stood out among Flash game developer thanks to its sparkling , Nintendo-esque 2D art . <p> In a fascinating hour-long GDC presentation from this February , Kongregate.com 's director of premium games John Cooney estimates that in 2009 , 99 per cent of computers with net connections had Flash installed . It 's easy , then , to see why so many up-and-coming coders opted for Flash in the noughties . The installed base of the most successful console ever is chicken feed by comparison , and for a time , the Flash scene was accessible in a way even dedicated middleware tools and development communities on PC could n't rival . There were no publishers to appease - once you owned the development tools , all you had to do was upload your game to a site . As Matthew Annal , co-founder with Heather Stancliffe of venerable Flash developer Nitrome , recalls : " When I set up Nitrome I wanted to make original games and though I toyed with J2ME for mobile , Flash was really the only space at the time where you could make smallscale original games and find enough audience to turn a profit . " <p> The primordial version of the software , FutureSplash Animator , was n't really designed for game-making at all - created by Jonathan Gay in 1996 following an ill-fated attempt to break into pen computing , its key feature was support for network-based animations run with a simple scripting language . Over time , however , Gay , his studio FutureWave Software and parent company Macromedia added more options , culminating in the debut of a " proper " game toolset , ActionScript , in 2000 . The toolset grew alongside the rise of Flash animation and gaming portals like Newgrounds and Miniclip - its critical update perhaps being ActionScript 3.0 , which offered full integration with ECMAScript , a programming language specification that is , in the form of JavaScript , foundational to the world wide web . <h> Nitrome managing director Matthew Annal on a career in Flash gaming <p> In the beginning there was n't much competition , as most games were hobby projects that could be pretty terrible . This made it easy for us to make our mark but also gave Flash as a platform a stigma that it was not a real games platform . To a degree that feeling never fully left , though given the volume and quality of many games on mobile/PC and even console download stores today I think it was just showing the way that things would become . <p> As a few years passed , Flash games got more professional and early portals like Miniclip , Kongregate &amp; Newgrounds gave way to many more . There was suddenly a lot more money in it and from that also comes more competition . <p> Facebook came onto the scene and suddenly there was a lot money there , and all the talk was of getting into that market and making it rich . This led to Flash being used for much bigger , more casual games than it typically had before , and in-app purchases were suddenly a monetisation model that far outperformed ads . In hindsight it all feels like what led to the mobile model we have today . <p> Of course Facebook games kind of faded away , and at Nitrome we 're happy we had n't jumped on that particular bandwagon . All seemed well in the world of Flash games and then Apple brought out the iPhone . <p> The iPhone had a huge impact on Flash games , and not just because of Steve Jobs 's refusal to allow the Flash player on iDevices . People suddenly started spending more of their time on their mobiles and less on their browser on their computer . Year on year , Flash game audiences started to decline and as ad networks saw the shift to mobile they too were increasingly shifting their focus there . <p> Flash games were never profitable on the same level as mobile games today , and we saw , one by one , games studios either close their doors or move into other spaces - typically , like Nitrome , to mobile but often to PC or console too . It helped that at the same time Flash began to decline that mobile sprung up along with downloadable stores on console . <p> The recent announcement may be the final nail in the coffin for Flash , but the community that came from it in a lot of ways continues to thrive on other platforms and using other tools . Flash games portals are now app stores , and the Flash development tool is now Unity or Game Maker , but the spirit is much the same . <p> " Initially I kind of stumbled into Flash but got I guess ' serious ' about it right after ActionScript3 came out , " Adam Saltsman , creator of Canabalt and the forthcoming Overland told me when I emailed for his thoughts on the software 's retirement . " ECMA is a fun and sloppy standard for a scripting language - see all the shenanigans you can do in JavaScript , for example - and ActionScript3 gave you bitmap-level/pixel-level access for both imported assets and display/output . And it was ... nominally cross-platform . And ran in the browser . And if you did n't use big music files , the game sizes were quite small - Canabalt was a few hundred kilobytes maybe . So for somebody looking for a kind of sandbox for doing rapid development or iterative development , and wanting to share games with online communities and solicit feedback and gauge reactions , it was kind of a dream come true . " <p> There are sex games and then there are sex games . Anna Anthropy 's Lesbian Spider Queens of Mars is an arch exploration of masochism , featured on Adult Swim 's dependably adventurous game channel in 2011 . <p> It helped , of course , that the Flash toolset was so affordable . " Eventually they made the AS3 compiler for free , so if you were programming-minded you could literally make Flash games completely for free . No revenue share if your budget is too big or whatever hanging over you . This kind of ecosystem I think helped produce a lot of excellent third party libraries ( like Box2D , for example ) . " Saltsman himself would release a free ActionScript development library , Flixel , in 2009 , which has been used for hundreds of games . <p> Early Flash gaming was rife with copyright theft and cut-throat business tactics - it was common for pirates to ask for bribes to remove games from portals that ranked higher on Google than the developer 's own site . Website ads were more profitable than they are now , but licensing deals were also much less generous . Across 2005-2007 , however , the arrival of professionally-run platforms Mochi Media and Kongregate plus the Flash Game License marketplace helped stabilise the market , sparking what Cooney styles a " renaissance " . By the end of the decade , the biggest Flash games could attract upwards of $100,000 in licensing fees , and a significant minority of Flash game developers were able to work full-time . There were more ways to earn money , too , including the ability to make payments within apps - the beginnings of the free-to-play craze , and a formative influence on mobile gaming , to which many Flash game studios would eventually gravitate . <p> It was a good time , all told , to be running a Flash gaming blog . Among my favourites from that period are the first real-time physics puzzlers , or " phuzzlers " - games like Crash the Castle , in which you launch boulders at stacks of masonry to squish Monty Python-esque nobles , or Nitrome 's delightful Ice-Breaker , in which you must slice up the level to free frozen vikings . There were the viral sensations , like the famously stupid limb-simulator QWOP or Adult Swim 's joyous Robot Unicorn Attack , and build-and-share games like Line Rider , where you 'd pencil in a course for others to skate down . There were point-and-click extravaganzas like Samorost from Czech developer Amanita Design , a fungal fairytale with lush background art . There were philosophical platformers like Coma , a tour of a pastoral dreamscape with some beautifully considered audio . There were an astonishing quantity of games with political and social themes , from Molleindustria 's powerful investigations of the fast food industry through geopolitical sims like Oil God to a small avalanche of interactive satires about Israeli occupation of the Gaza strip . <p> Molleindustria 's The McDonalds Game takes you through every stage in the creation of a Big Mac . <p> As that list of strange bedfellows suggests , there was an awful lot of experimentation and sharing , with relatively few overarching publisher or platform-holder preoccupations to worry about . " The Flash dev community has always been fantastic , " notes Matthew Annal . " Everyone wants to help each other and show off new techniques . There was always someone trying to do things that were not designed for the platform . Way back before Adobe introduced 3D there were many 3D tricks going from SNES-style mode 7 to proper 3D texture-mapped objects . Whenever we had a problem at Nitrome the answer was always online somewhere , or someone was willing to help . Many events sprung up around the platform , too , and it was always great to meet with these like minded people . I think a big part of this was there was never a reason to not get on with other studios . It never really felt like we were in completion for anything , so everyone wanted good things for other devs . " <p> Many of today 's better-known " indie " developers cut their teeth on Flash . Ed McMillen worked on dozens of Flash titles before hitting the big time with Super Meatboy and The Binding Of Isaac : I particularly love Time Cfuk , a room-based platformer with a time travel element which bills itself variously as about " finding logic in irrelevance " and " communication with people who you do n't like " . Other standouts include the self-explanatory text adventure Do n't Shit Your Pants , whose developers would go onto make cult hit roguelike Rogue Legacy , and Terry Cavanagh 's Do n't Look Back , a descent to the underworld . <p> Some Flash games , such as The Behemoth 's Alien Hominid or Thatgamecompany 's Flow , have made their way to other platforms ; others have been updated to run on HTML5 , long trumpeted as Flash 's successor . But sadly a large number of these titles are at risk of being lost forever . Last year , Apple , Google , Microsoft and Firefox announced or implemented plans to block Flash on their browsers . Apple in particular has always been eager to pull the trigger on Flash , regarding it as technically deficient , a security liability and a threat to its own app business : in 2010 , Steve Jobs penned a legendary 1700 word takedown , commenting that " the mobile era is about low power devices , touch interfaces and open web standards - all areas where Flash falls short " ( Adobe retaliated with some fairly cheeky adverts ) . <p> Charming novelties like QWOP cashed in on the popularity of aggregators like Digg , Fark and Stumbleupon . <p> Most Flash developers would agree that as a piece of technology , Flash has had its ups and downs . " Linux support was a disaster , " Saltsman says . " There were like , three different weird ways of producing desktop apps from your web plugins ; games could be decompiled very easily ( I guess this was a pro and a con in some ways ) ; it was surprisingly un-robust in terms of traditional game loops ( without third party libraries , I mean ) ; the sloppiness of the language was very fun but could also massively ambush you at the worst times ; performance could be unpredictable and extremely black-box-y , etc . " These are negligible downsides when set against the ethic of adventure , freedom and camaraderie that grew up around Flash , however - qualities that are always worth striving for , even as the app itself fades into obscurity . <p> " I 'm not sure it will be remembered as such , " says Annal , " But in my mind Flash paved the way for both modern indie games and free-for-all-style app stores . I guess the legacy of Flash is possibly that it led to the self-published indie movement we see today . " <p> Sometimes we include links to online retail stores . If you click on one and make a purchase we may receive a small commission . For more information , go here . 
@@20071842 <p> They say to authors : write what you know . But to publishers it should be : commission what you do n't know , give voice to those you have n't heard from before . That 's been the rubric at Comma Press since I founded it more than a decade ago . We 've published short stories from refugees , diary accounts from war-torn Gaza , science fiction from Iraq ... But being a publisher , that is to say someone " working in the arts " , you will always be partly cocooned by your industry 's middle-classness ; the real " other " , the thing you know least about , may well be ordinary people on your doorstep , the working-class experience . <p> The idea of commissioning a fictionalised history of British " people power " had been at the back of my mind for a long time . In 2011 , I witnessed the Manchester manifestation of that year 's riots up close , and could n't believe the unfolding spectacle of something that should have led to a legitimate nationwide protest ( the shooting of Mark Duggan ) being transformed , consensually , into a hollow meme ; a smash'n'grab outdoor rave . The speed at which this materialist ( read " capitalist " ) opportunism went viral was matched only by the speed at which the real cause of the riot disappeared in the chaos . <p> Political dissent , that is to say political ideology , never goes viral ; instead it gets buried . That year felt like the lowest point in British protest history -- a moment when people did n't even know what real protest was , or that it was an option . <p> Another trigger was a demonstration in Manchester on 29 September 2013 . It was a rally to protest against proposed NHS cuts and creeping privatisation measures being brought in without parliamentary approval . Well over 50,000 people marched through the streets that day , one of the largest demonstrations in the city 's history . But BBC News that Sunday evening did n't give it a minute 's airtime . If someone had worn a balaclava and thrown a Molotov , they might have ; but 50,000 peaceful protesters does n't compute in the language of modern news . Instead the march got a passing mention , as a bit of background colour to the main story of the night : the preparations for the Conservative party conference . These two events bugged me for a long time ; the media 's role in both -- hysterically following the rioters , patently ignoring the peaceful protesters -- seemed to be symptomatic of a new culture of news that distanced the already marginalised , and patted itself on the back for being so sycophantically close to the centres of power . <p> I began by building a list -- first of protests that I did know something about ( my granddad had stood with the Jewish community on Cable Street ; my dad had been arrested in Grosvenor Square ) . Then , in the process of talking to experts on these events , I started asking about other protests , ones I did n't know anything about . When the list was eventually ready , and presented to the authors , they too gravitated to what they did n't know . Maggie Gee had never heard of May Hobbs 's night cleaners strike of 1972 ; Laura Hird knew nothing of the " radical war " of 1820 ; Holly Pester was new to the Midland revolt of 1607 ; but each was drawn to the possibilities of an untold history . Likewise many of the authors who chose more obvious moments of resistance -- such as the miners ' strike ( 1984-85 ) , or The Diggers ( 1649 ) -- chose to take up less sympathetic points of view , picking characters who were initially harder to get on with , given the rose tints of historical hindsight . <p> The finished book covers 20 protests , spanning six centuries , from the peasants ' revolt of 1381 to the tragically unsuccessful " stop the war " demos of February 2003 . It took four years to put it together . Only towards the end did I find myself delivering a book that was suddenly " timely " , in a year of anti-Trump demonstrations worldwide , and Corbyn rock concerts in Britain . Who knew ? The idea had germinated in a fallow period , a protest low season . <p> But why fictionalise this history ? Surely what we need in the age of " post-truth " is a bit of good old-fashioned truth ? For one , fiction can fly under the radar of those who would manipulate the past ( for non-fictional ends ) ; it comes out with its hands up , confessing its falsity . <p> More importantly , fiction sidesteps identity politics -- that monstrous but inevitable byproduct of " free " news . When the news is " free " what 's really on sale is us , the audience ( to the advertisers ) , and for that sale to work , our demographic identity has to be tied , predictably , to all our behaviour ; not just our purchasing habits but our affiliations . and sympathies Fiction is one of the few things that allows us to completely uncouple our sympathies from our sense of personal identity . We can sympathise with those we do n't identify with ; we can connect with the unfamiliar , we can take the other 's side . <p> *Protest : Stories of Resistance , edited by Ra Page , is published by Comma Press . 
@@20135934 <h> Human rights attacks around the world <h> Human rights attacks around the world <h> 1/10 China <p> Escalating crackdown against human rights activists including mass arrests of lawyers and a series of sweeping laws in the name of ' national security ' . <p> Getty Images <h> 2/10 Egypt <p> The arrest of thousands , including peaceful critics , in a ruthless crackdown in the name of national security , the prolonged detention of hundreds without charge or trial and the sentencing of hundreds of others to death . <p> Getty Images <h> 3/10 Gambia <p> Torture , enforced disappearances and the criminalisation of LGBTI people ; and utter refusal to co-operate with the UN and regional human rights mechanisms on issues including freedom of expression , enforced disappearance and the death penalty . <p> Getty Images <h> 4/10 Hungary <p> Sealing off its borders to thousands of refugees in dire need ; and obstructing collective regional attempts to help them . <p> Getty Images <h> 5/10 Israel <p> Maintaining its military blockade of Gaza and therefore collective punishment of the 1.8 million inhabitants there , as well as failing , like Palestine , to comply with a UN call to conduct credible investigations into war crimes committed during the 2014 Gaza conflict . <p> Getty Images <h> 6/10 Kenya <p> Extrajudicial executions , enforced disappearances and discrimination against refugees in its counter-terrorism operations ; and attempts to undermine the International Criminal Court and its ability to pursue justice . <p> Getty Images <h> 7/10 Pakistan <p> The severe human rights failings of its response to the horrific Peshawar school massacre including its relentless use of the death penalty ; and its policy on international NGOs giving authorities the power to monitor them and close them down if they are considered to be " against the interests " of the country . <p> Getty Images <h> 8/10 Russia <p> Repressive use of vague national security and anti-extremism legislation and its concerted attempts to silence civil society in the country ; its shameful refusal to acknowledge civilian killings in Syria and its callous moves to block Security Council action on Syria . <p> Getty Images <h> 9/10 Saudi Arabia <p> Brutally cracking down on those who dared to advocate reform or criticise the authorities ; and committing war crimes in the bombing campaign it has led in Yemen ( pictured ) while obstructing the establishment of a UN-led inquiry into violations by all sides in the conflict . <p> Getty Images <h> 10/10 Syria <p> Killing thousands of civilians in direct and indiscriminate attacks with barrel bombs and other weaponry and through acts of torture in detention ; and enforcing lengthy sieges of civilian areas , blocking international aid from reaching starving civilians . <p> Getty Images <p> In April , Russia 's Supreme Court decided in favour of the justice ministry 's characterisation of members of the Jehovah 's Witnesses as posing " a threat to the rights of the citizens , public order and public security . " <p> The denomination 's properties , known as Kingdom Halls , will also be seized by the state . <p> The Jehovah 's Witnesses are expected to appeal the ban at the European Court of Human Rights . <p> The British Government previously said it was " alarmed " by the ban and launched an appeal for Vladimir Putin to uphold religious freedom in Russia . <p> Jehovah 's Witnesses , who are known for their door-to-door preaching and distribution of literature , reject some of mainstream Christianity 's core beliefs . <p> The US-based group , which has more than 8.3 million adherents around the world , has generated controversy for its stances including the rejection of blood transfusion and opposition to military service . 
@@20245631 <p> Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu , has accused Iran of building sites to produce missiles in Syria and Lebanon during a meeting with the UN secretary general , Ant ? nio Guterres -- part of increasingly bellicose rhetoric from Israel and the US against Tehran . <p> The remarks , made by Netanyahu at the beginning of a meeting with Guterres on Monday , come against a background of growing Israeli anxiety over the expanding Iranian influence on its northern border . <p> Netanyahu accused Iran of turning Syria into a " base of military entrenchment as part of its declared goal to eradicate Israel " . <p> He added : " It is also building sites to produce precision-guided missiles towards that end , in both Syria and in Lebanon . This is something Israel can not accept . This is something the UN should not accept . " <p> Israel has pointed to Tehran 's steadily increasing influence in the region during the six-year-old Syrian conflict , whether via its own Revolutionary Guard forces or Shia Muslim proxies , especially Hezbollah . <p> Netanyahu 's remarks follow recent comments by the fiercely pro-Israel US ambassador to the UN , Nikki Haley . She accused the UN peacekeeping commander in Lebanon , Maj Gen Michael Beary , of being " blind " to the spread of illegal arms and reiterated a call for the force to do more about it . <h> White House ' pressuring ' intelligence officials to find Iran in violation of nuclear deal <p> Read more <p> " Gen Beary says there are no Hezbollah weapons , " Haley said . " That 's an embarrassing lack of understanding on what 's going on around him . " <p> Beary pushed back at US and Israeli criticism , saying his force had no evidence of weapons being illegally transferred and stockpiled in the area , and that " if there was a large cache of weapons , we would know about it " . <p> It has become clear that the Netanyahu government and senior Israeli defence officials badly misjudged the trajectory of the war in Syria , which Israel had hoped would turn into a quagmire for the Syrian president Bashar al-Assad 's key ally , Iran , and for Lebanon 's Iranian-backed Hezbollah . <p> However , after the intervention of Russia on Assad 's side , the war has swung in favour of the Syrian president and his allies , prompting Israeli officials to become increasingly concerned by a " day after " scenario that would mean Iranian power being projected on to its doorstep . <p> Guterres arrived in Israel on Sunday for a three-night trip . In his first official visit to the country , he is expected to discuss the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip , as well as ways to promote the moribund peace process between Israel and Palestine . <h> Two North Korean shipments to Syria intercepted in six months , UN told <p> Read more <p> " I dream that I will have the chance to see in the Holy Land two states able to live together in mutual recognition , but also in peace and security , " Guterres said at Netanyahu 's office on Monday . <p> Guterres spoke of improving economic and social conditions for Palestinians to provide them with a " dividend " and incentive for peace . He is due in Ramallah on Tuesday for talks with the Palestinian prime minister , Rami Hamdallah . <p> Netanyahu 's remarks to Guterres on Iran follow his warning to the Russian president , Vladimir Putin , this month that Israel might be prepared to act unilaterally to prevent Tehran establishing a garrison on the country 's doorstep . <p> " Iran is already well on its way to controlling Iraq , Yemen and , to a large extent , is already in practice in control of Lebanon , " Netanyahu told Putin . <p> " We can not forget for a single minute that Iran threatens every day to annihilate Israel , " he added . " Israel opposes Iran 's continued entrenchment in Syria . We will be sure to defend ourselves with all means against this and any threat . " 
@@20255689 <p> Tuesday 29 August 2017 03.30 EDT First published on Tuesday 29 August 2017 03.29 EDT <p> Detectives have reopened an investigation into the murder of a controversial Palestinian cartoonist in London 30 years ago . <p> At the time of his death , Naji Salim Hussain al-Ali was one of the most prominent cartoonists in the Arab world and was sharply critical of Palestinian and Arab politics and leaders . He often received death threats . <p> Ali was on Ives Street , Knightsbridge , outside the office of Kuwaiti newspaper al-Qabas , for whom he drew political caricatures , when he was shot in the neck on 22 July 1987 . He was taken to hospital , where he remained in a coma until he died more than a month later , on 29 August . <p> Counter-terrorism detectives from the Metropolitan police are reopening an investigation of the case and have appealed for information about the gunman and a second man later seen driving away from the scene . <p> Ali 's son , Osama al-Ali , said : " My father was a very dedicated family man who wanted to spend as much time with his kids as possible . On top of that he was also very dedicated to his passion of his artwork and the political implications of that , and his people . <p> " Lots of questions are unanswered and we would like to have that closure , so we are encouraged by the fact that the investigation is being reopened and we have some path towards resolution , so we know what happened . " <p> He added : " It is 30 years ago , it is a long time ago , memories may be cloudy . That said , anything you have may be that missing piece that 's required to get to the next step and for that , if you can come forward , we are grateful . " <p> Commander Dean Haydon , head of the Met 's counter-terrorism command , said : " The brutal murder of Mr al-Ali devastated his family and 30 years on they continue to feel the loss . We have previously reviewed this case and followed a number of lines of inquiry which have not resulted in us identifying these two men . However , a lot can change in 30 years -- allegiances shift and people who were not willing to speak at the time of the murder may now be prepared to come forward with crucial information . " <p> Ali was murdered at a time of rising tensions in Palestine and Israel , months before the first intifada -- a Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza . <p> In the moments leading up to Ali 's murder , he parked his car on Ixworth Place , walked into Draycott Avenue and on to Ives Street . Witnesses reported seeing him being followed by the suspected gunman , whom they described as being of Middle Eastern appearance and aged about 25 , with collar-length thick black hair that was wavy at the back . He was wearing a stonewashed denim jacket and dark trousers and holding a black automatic handgun . <p> The gun -- a 7.62 Tokarev pistol -- was found on the Hallfield estate in Paddington almost two years after the murder , on 22 April 1989 . <p> Specialists carried out forensic analysis of the gun , including test-firing the pistol , and identified that the marks from the firing pin left on the ejected cartridge case recovered from the scene matched those left on bullets during test firing . An image of the pistol has also been released by police . <p> After the attack , the suspect was seen to run out of Ives Street back across Draycott Avenue and into Ixworth Place . <p> The Met police said an artist 's impression of the gunman drawn shortly after the incident had been updated as part of the murder review to show what the suspect may look like today . Another witness reported seeing another man crossing Fulham Road into Lucan Place and getting into the driver 's seat of a silver-grey left-hand-drive Mercedes shortly after the incident . <p> He was seen running with his left hand inside the right side of his jacket as if he was concealing something . This man was described as being of Middle Eastern appearance , aged in his 50s , about 5ft 9ins ( 1.75m ) and of medium build with heavy shoulders . <p> He was said to have dark bushy hair with a lot of grey in it , a " fattish face and a bigger than average nose " , the Met said . He was clean-shaven and of smart appearance , wearing a grey suit . <p> The Mercedes was seen driving off along Lucan Place and left into Ixworth Place , towards the junction with Sloane Avenue . It is believed that the registration number of the car contained the letters P and H in the first part and may have ended 11L . <p> Haydon said : " The gunman was seen following Mr a-Ali for about 40 seconds before he shot him . Despite the briefness of the attack , witnesses were able to give investigators a good description of the suspect . <p> " We believe that he may have arranged to meet the man seen driving the silver-grey Mercedes straight after the murder . We believe that this driver was seen hiding the weapon in his coat , intending to dispose of it . " <p> Anyone with information is urged to call the investigation team on 020 3276 9014 , or 0044 203 276 9014 if calling from outside the UK. 
@@20268360 <h> Police complaint after officers are accused of forcing removal of pro-Palestinian photos at Fringe church exhibition <p> THE POLICE watchdog has been asked to investigate claims officers had " ignored freedom of expression " by forcing the removal of pro-Palestinian photographs at an Edinburgh church following complaints they were anti-Semitic . <p> The move to force their removal has been described by the Network of Photographers for Palestine ( NPP ) , which created the Edinburgh Festival Fringe exhibition , as " artistic censorship " . <p> The exhibition placed on fencing outside the St John 's Episcopal Church in Princes Street , Edinburgh was set up to mark the 100th anniversary of the Balfour Declaration , a British government public statement made during World War I , to announce support for the establishment of a " national home " for the Jewish people in Palestine , then part of the Ottoman Empire . <p> Loading article content <p> But it also aims to highlight how the declaration laid the foundations for " the Zionist state of Israel as it is today " and how it affects the lives of millions of Palestinians . <p> It is known that Rev Markus D ? nzkofer , rector of St. John 's and a church manager were accused of racism by one individual over the exhibition . <p> One church official confirmed that police demanded they take down all 22 photographs but managed to negotiate to have only what was considered the more provocative images removed . <p> Now a complaint has been lodged with the Police Investigations &amp; Review Commissioner after NPP accused officers of " censorship or artistic expression " by insisting on the removal of eleven pictures all of which they said had already appeared in the public domain . <p> The most graphic of the shots related to the killing of a disarmed Palestinian Abed al Fatah a-Sharif -- who had been shot and incapacitated during a stabbing attack on an Israeli soldier at the West Bank city of Hebron last year . The soldier was convicted of manslaughter earlier this year . <p> A picture of the scene similar to this was taken down from the exhibition <p> Another withdrawn picture is of graffiti and features the slogan : " Gas The Arabs ! " . <p> Also not allowed was a photograph of an anti-Balfour demonstration , and features a boy taking a photograph . <p> A shot of a man who can not bear to watch his house being " torn down by an Israel demolition mob " was also a no-no , as was a picture of a night raid in a Palestinian village . <p> A photograph , taken by Associated Press of an explosion in Gaza City , in 2014 was also removed . <p> Phil Chetwynd , secretary of NPP said the police ordered the removal of the photographs on Tuesday after a member of the public took exception to some of them accusing church staff of " racism and anti-semitism " . <p> In his complaint , Mr Chetwynd said : " Many people may feel offended by a wide range of things in our country , but freedom of expression must be preserved at all cost in any democracy . <p> " In this instance , it seems that an emotional and vociferous complainant forced the two officers to attempt to defuse a situation by completely acceding her demands , thereby ignoring the higher principle of freedom of expression . <p> " I would therefore be grateful if you would investigate this incident , and clarify if Police Scotland considers itself to have any role in the censorship of artistic expression in Scotland , and if so , under what circumstances they would find it appropriate to exercise this role . " <p> The exhibition organisers say the display was dedicated to the " many Palestinians who have suffered under the yoke of British and Israeli rule over the past 100 years " . <p> Of the Balfour declaration , the exhibition says : " On the face of it the declaration seemed fair and even-handed enough , but its implication and manner of execution have echoed down the subsequent century paving the way for the brutality and oppression that pervades the land of Palestine today . " <p> An NPP spokesman said : " It is outrageous that the police allow themselves to be used in this way to censor an exhibition on the Edinburgh Fringe . Our enquiries suggest that the complaint was made against just one picture depicting the murder of a Palestinian man by an Israeli soldier , and yet all the pictures of Israeli actions against Palestinians had to be taken down . <p> " Members of the general public protested at the pictures being taken down , asserting that the story contained in the exhibition should definitely be told in full . <p> " We are aware that some supporters of the State of Israel can not bear to hear the Palestinian story being told . <p> " However , the Scottish police must not allow itself to be manipulated into colluding with this clear infringement on freedom of expression in Scotland . " <h> Comments <h> Comments &amp; Moderation <p> Readers ' comments : You are personally liable for the content of any comments you upload to this website , so please act responsibly . We do not pre-moderate or monitor readers ' comments appearing on our websites , but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to our attention . You can make a complaint by using the ' report this post ' link . We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments . <h> Our Colleagues <h> Ipsoregulated <p> This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation 's Editors ' Code of Practice . If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion , then please contact the editor here . If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here 
@@20304313 <p> The international co-productions of the mid-20th century often boasted myriad shooting locations in far-flung places . Who would have guessed the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei would pick up where moguls such as Sam Spiegel left off . <p> Ai 's new film , Human Flow , while certainly epic in scope , is not exactly meant as entertainment . This is an urgent , deep soak in the current refugee crisis . There has been no dearth of documentaries about this topic , but this one comes closest to understanding the totality of the issue . <p> Ghastly facts and mind-numbing numbers continuously flash on the screen as more boats arrive upon the shores . Our first images are of the Greek island of Lesbos , a frequent first perch for many Syrian refugees , where there appears to be a semblance of procedure . There are cups of hot tea and those emergency blankets made of golden foil , which unfortunately do n't align with the migrants ' fortunes . <p> Ai ( who never directly addresses the camera , but looms over proceedings throughout ) follows a band of travellers north through fog and across streams , almost as if this is an adventure film . Then the reality of politics hits . The Macedonian border is closed , coinciding with a downpour of rain , a dwindling of supplies and an onset of disinterest from the international community . Once these people are out of the immediate danger of drowning , they are on their own . <p> Ai , though , stays with these people past the headlines . As the immediate crisis ebbs , new ones begin . They may seem secondary , but from the ground up , problems such as what to do with bored , scared children all day are of crucial importance . As the film flies away ( literally , given the pervasive use of drone photography ) from the people stuck in the Idomeni border camp , Human Flow expands to consider the plight of all refugees all over the world . <p> Some may consider this a mistake -- and I confess I had some misgivings as I was first watching -- it becomes clear that Ai is more interested in presenting a tone poem than a traditional narrative . While the film does regularly staple headlines and statistics to the screen , there are also numerous quotes from poets and scripture from various religions . Transitional shots between Mosul , Berlin , Calais , Gaza , eastern Turkey , Bangladesh , Jordan , Hungary , the US-Mexico border and elsewhere are gorgeously photographed , finding if not beauty in each setting than at least a point of view other than abject misery . <p> While the film makes a direct plea to the EU to stay true to its charter on refugees ( and gets very specific about deals with Turkey ) , Ai 's on-screen presence , talking and taking photographs , perhaps for one of his site-specific installation pieces , is more of a gentle face and a hug than a jeremiad . As one who spent his childhood as a displaced person during China 's Cultural Revolution , it 's perhaps no surprise that his film has so many empathetic moments . ( It 's only an instant , but everyone smiling at photographs of a cat wearing a sweater back home in Syria is incredibly emotional . ) <p> Policy-minded viewers may bristle at Ai 's approach . " All refugees in crisis should be treated equally , but perhaps all crises that create refuges should not , " is an argument that is easier to make when viewing from 30,000 feet . Everyone deserves a home , and when something happens to deny someone that right , it is our obligation to help them . Ai Weiwei 's camera shows us the enormity of the problem -- now it 's our turn to do something . 
@@20306947 <p> A question of trust : Baroness Warsi at the Greenbelt festival , where she was promoting her new book , The Enemy Within : A tale of Muslim Britain <p> A question of trust : Baroness Warsi at the Greenbelt festival , where she was promoting her new book , The Enemy Within : A tale of Muslim B ... <p> BRITISH Muslims feel as if they must take a daily " loyalty test " , Bar ? oness Warsi , the former Conservat ? ive Cabinet minister , has said . <p> A lawyer , Baroness Warsi , who was previously a minister in the Foreign Office , and Minister for Faith and Communities in the Coalition Gov ? ernment , said that , despite some signs of progress , " I still feel like every day I 'm having to face a loyalty test . " <p> She was speaking at the Greenbelt festival , where she was promoting her new book , The Enemy Within : A tale of Muslim Britain . <p> Despite the presence of young , well-integrated Muslims in popular culture , such as the pop star Zayn Malik , or the winner of The Great British Bake Off , Nadiya Hussain , Muslims were still " sick to death of being counted out " of mainstream society . <p> Baroness Warsi was the first female Muslim Cabinet minister in British history . The Government 's approach amounted to " the para ? noid state " , she said , noting how anti-terrorism policy focused solely on proscribing ideology , and ig ? ? nored the other factors that , research showed , pushed people into extrem ? ism . <p> Fewer than a tenth of one per cent of the three million Muslims living in the UK had anything to do with jihadism , she said , and yet the Government 's engagement with this diverse community was seen solely through the prism of counter-terrorism . <p> " There are far more Muslim doc ? tors in the NHS than there are Muslim terrorists , " she said . " We are more likely to be life-savers rather than life-takers . This policy of disengagement is fundamentally wrong . " <p> In 2014 , Baroness Warsi resigned from the Government , saying that she could no longer support official policy on the escalating violence between Israel and Gaza ( News , 8 August 2014 ) . <p> The title of her book came to her after a journalist at The Spectator had ques ? tioned her place on the national security council discussing counter-terrorism proposals after the attack on Lee Rigby , describing her as " the enemy at the table " . <p> " That insult was the worst . It said : ' We do n't trust you , ' " she re ? ? called . " ' You do n't belong . ' But the best way to deal with an insult that really hurts you is to own it : this book is my way of fielding that insult . " 
