@@19811852 <h> Did the Red Sox do enough at the trade deadline ? <h> OMF - Likeable or not , Sox won game of the year last night ; Jonny Gomes is coming along ... sort of 8-2-17 <p> HOUR 1 - In a game with two of the top A.L . starters getting shelled as well as two of the top A.L . closers blowing saves , the Red Sox walked off on top . The August Red Sox are just the best , even if it is a small sample size . Joking aside , the Sox pulled out all the stops and came from behind on more than one occasion . Jonny Gomes was in the NESN booth again last night and the guys might have a pointer or two for the new color commentator . And is Gary Tanguay trying to destroy Glenn Ordway ? <p> On you ready . Beach Fort Wayne and moaning and 41 thing that security . News . Sox win . Will be along . Questions like hit a drive . Senator pill that 's being put it . The it 's . Good good good . With the Ku and mu and Christian when you get what you might call it kitchen sink . You see this and everything in the kitchen sink what has run differential . That would be . How many runs you would down verse how many runs you score OK in Cleveland Indians are plus ninety sentence or oftentimes . Scored 97 more runs in their pitching staff has led now holds the record for being a terrible hitter ever . On Sports Radio WEEI . We 'll listen board right now I 'm thankful I 'm working geniuses who happen to play the game of baseball want to football . Geniuses compared to what I heard last night just I blast try to save as I 'm blessed you do n't let yesterday it was gas through that Thomas something 's got . Today and if that mrs. third monthly gain in its . Who owns the whole kitchen sink so the kitchen sink is . Everything and everything . Any clue he 's ignite alluding to kids do n't like it when the getting what you might call it kitchen sink . To see this and everything in the kitchen scene everything it 's okay it 's applicable to vote last night that day is old . And are gon na hit ten organized under the noses of the last as what we call . A good win . How many times we heard of what we call . Carl Edward Edward is unique it 's sick it 's what we call . When you get everything as soon as it were that we 'd like to call that back door slide out like the call that double steal . We like to call that it 's agree that the call pregnant they I got that we get the baseball you know . What is he what is what has won only two in the bush what does that look cooler than hand to the bush added that like to call outlets . Millions after the kitchens and after you get an idea what are they and it what is killing two birds with one stone that they were all let me move on created rule Ballmer . I know ha that was the whole Lotta good fertile ones do n't that 's what I really I mean you may want . He relented only and he killed two birds that 's what we call good pitch on the O. Yeah it did they thought the ought yeah . Here to day and then lately when tomorrow comes god . That down to you like I hit ahead . Yeah . Does he had a daisy . Yeah he 's right now are n't that great about what a toll jacket was swept in . I do n't know our . I feel the memo the memo has been sent down . Addison reed gets in there he gets ode to . That 's is standing up with a glove save throwing here . And sent up to wait throws it right down the Pope or any it 's a bomb in year or in the Boston 's good pitching . Yeah . There 's a good general ode to Italy and gore than 902 of the trying to elevate Reid offered a way to you know of the set up that slider down and again . He throws a fastball sketches the strike zone for bomb . To say listen . Advantage they loved in the clubhouse that 's a good pitch is that what it 's about the incident hole I guess . Two when we got it down there and it got to a he would 've said something that would physical Brazilian coast also this if you think to beat the game of baseball is boring . And I am looking back if you would block that alone I do n't get I do n't forget at the lake is not the problem with a gain . Excitement intrigue compelling runs dance brought us thus far you know around that time is not a good actor . Is just give . And it 's I 'm gon na get half the thing is just you know what I. Why I was like wow . He can we get rich and there 's a scenario the mailman at the most things like a home I do n't like what we need to do the tsunami hit quail hollow is in the mail had been . With a lot of mail and detonated the hitter right now squarely at Rancho fairness and that would be . How many runs you would verse how many runs score . We infusion this would mean where their own college of our own Crowley rob Bradford on Sunday morning does this segment where he gives away like . Whatever is closing please miss the start of the week he exactly mean you 're absolutely right there did n't IQ we put the media loser of the week already can we can we do that on our program . And unfortunately rod you are the first winner will come up with a prize a little later on . The headline a start with a headline in this case I know rob you do write the headlines as well . You ca n't block out of this room . Red Sox twelve . Indians 10 am is this teams started to get likable pleased . I greatly . Yeah block . Likable now any starts with the Packers lead story were actually was shown on the big screen in center field at Fenway Park . Unfortunately . NASA did not like this little knob on . I 'm gon na do . I stare out wait till there 's now let 's carry a vote unless there audited have two more people were watching Twitter than where the going away somewhat you 'll still dual slot for the likable so then he goes on the Eagles on the Packers should Vasquez walked off which we we learned that . The only way you were going to win . I think that 's a guarantee . Us . Sox win . You walk out of here to teach them because if he gets of the tenth inning he had to deal who knows anything could 've happened right . Okay . So is it then goes on to say all of a sudden . An entire team appeared . You would take his seven for twelve with runners in scoring positions home runs and Borland Vazquez . He was a novel concept and he felt a little bit different he felt like me me . Red Sox could actually keep up with those yankees police have to wrong start liking . All the plucked up . And instead it 's ugly it does is it is our eyes and . And I think today I do n't I do n't . I do n't know it 'd be like a likable one night at ten those were two very very big leagues and yeah because I still think Cleveland is the team to beat the American League . Adding to the best team the American . And I think that was huge you watch the game last night we had Carrasco is a stud in sailed it shredded . You know that he 's . Andrew Miller giving up . That you saw a Addis re giving up . He sought timber Kimbrel giving up so pallid given out of those six dignity rental vehicle and do n't give it up off it was like rock . Is on worn ones which are not because of runs we talked about the score runs storm fortitude do n't get is real excited we only scored one inning Jimmy . Bracket for which you do n't want the rest of the league is this portal home runs a home runs peony . In Major League Baseball this team does not know this team is not in a sauce that you Fenway it 's Annika. 89 home runs assortment at least one home runs in the ballpark and honest with you own team . But the second place team unity 89 a sickness that one and some ridiculous but if you wan na focus on the negative it 's ever been a great moment parts of doubt that 's a doubles and they do n't remain do n't know but they had a couple of big hits in the alleys huge in the in the ninth inning . Showed no it would that was four that was one of those games where you could not posing as a currently . Told it 's already on the angels are you gon na we 're gon na of the non I never said that the euros not like them . But I told you offensively a second are you keeping up April may June July read I give you numbers let 's although OK do you know that this team . Had six guys six . In the airline that they 're here in the fall over 400 a month of August . Probably are n't you know is under close scrutiny around edit under a lot of you have heard Nunez yells yeah editing . Twelve runs a game in the month of life unbelievable six guys in black go unnoticed this whole month unintelligible . I miss it I did n't have done it makes me six guys 400 . Elegant little bits bigger sample but that 's golf . And I want everything . I mean the one thing you know I can only give you so much for this series you can start us item Comcast and it 's some sort of deal with trade deadline at some point that yes please Yale yet and then you did astros ' fourth . Yep you if you had you did you have ideal to yeah Cleveland number one leads domestic . Okay we 're in him do it again good win . I mean I do n't think they 're okay this is what 's gon na be out in the post season it 's mine but still early look at the line and look at the pitchers and they 're stacked that little known plans to kill . I 'd also and then you have your best pitcher CL rocks right now beginning in the actually bail is that outlets yeah . Yeah it 's it 's important I guess it 's something hang your hat on you know or more can rally their likable ad makes sense but it you 're gon na do this would be time to start turning the corner . I 'm glad because I do think their team 's current and sales probably gon na win the Cy Young but come post season reason why I think it is because I think that got clobbered the best pitcher . This is kind of shown that he can stand on that mound in the post season he 'll sales pitch a post season yet not that he 's gon na crap himself . But I just think they 're the best team you know that at the Yankees Sox kind of in the same area . Playoff wise yankees ' bullpen I think is now better and I think that maybe the difference in the post season but still Woolsey . And I think Houston 's Biggest Loser in the trade did nothing to pick the bleary and that team is built for the regular season when they get the post season the fourteens I just mentioned it the worst rotation to the worst bullpen . It the best line when does that ever work that seemed to bounce or limited nothing at the deadline . Was not preaching to better that 's why that 's a youth went . But that it was n't used ones though denying and as I said it was it was fun and about how the judgment about if somebody . Good judgment can electric . Other backup that 's standing ovation Buckman picture yeah thank you heard a black man and opposing team that usually you miss at some level I 'm going to miss it I I got it . So is what the tart and some of the people who constantly ripping Boston because apparently we were unfair to people of color art through at all if that was the case that we are with that catch last night in the reaction by that crowd . You would think today they would they would choose an exclusive right . But then you 'd I do n't think it 's in the Vatican 's . No I do n't I do n't know zones a Vatican much put up the view or one I do like that that 's like vintage Jack you do n't forget the wall you jump up still cricket but it 's not . Jumping into over it will all right like this kind of wore on hold onto the funeral was I still sanity guys who have dared Darren Bragg had 98 . I actually robbed David Ortiz with the twins . And he pretty much took one step on the track and just doled into that right field corner and caught the ball let one row in . You know that was and by the way that was the day . They realized he 'd catch the ball go over the over the you know the home run or use that and then unilateral etc. well because of Darrin Bragg Johnny still learning dared gradually and that always is addressing your control you come back that 's a catch your routes those . But that was unbelievable catch many changed that rule . See much in need to know that should be the bed nourish it and catch the ball in his -- amounts and then you 're you are just carries unit outside the market leaders not pass announced that lines and that 's count of the north and once it is in Europe meant that was written once it 's cynical I would say in your mirror and stop us from that point to deal with yourself Owens ' side on South Florida is fall in car with we all that 's all home . What we 're all in all . Three home runs matches dolls . Affiliate among our . I get . Good challenge that they challenged write a column of the Golf Channel line and I know the home . Plate umpire symbol will take a look at this particular channels they did n't they to challenge the final just so we 're gon na we 're gon na look at just is that you can does this if they really did towns and whenever majestic as the bullpen . And heretic on the ball back to you right home run calls that it always kind of review the Brunswick . Unbelievable catch because that would double leadoff what was his head to Israel for films and he could he could actually understand how the rules work . Much like with the we 'll never seen them . Honestly I. The infielder but . Not sure if this day . You know this could possibly being . Nice it 's a home . It catch on there . By Jackson . Much like you . This charming part of the Jonny Gomes it 's almost like you 're taking your kids ' eyes to Disneyland for the first time . OK you just kind of amazed all of this when this when it was the right now are eligible for a night like a one when when it happened I was like I able . Is there a moment because I ca n't remember seeing eight . A you know a lot times people catch the ball and their body goes over there the global goal but it bring it back shoulders official ball . In the glove okay home run when you are tired by the goes into the dugout . Hey get to that seems like a is that a technicality and do n't notice we have to keep his body inside the park when he catches so once I. I hit a bit and what happens after that all is irrelevant he controlled it . He made the catch I have seen that always afford not as great as that one about what lies that one more shot and of course you have seen in a ramblings and three of our lives are at least while I at least three of the RC six have you ever seen it ever suitable . Go off of a nice oh for the others hit it I 'm not you know you have I. I was against it that 's why I did present allies seem too juicy for accredited happily we 've Calgary . And it was it it would have a lot of lives right yeah . And open a week ago that 's the CEO of course you had n't OO or why and how . How there is there a reason why . The fact that your feet . I thought that playing but they also those ousted as the wings likable . And down on a regular basis that might have been as good catches I 've ever seen though because it was so vital to how did you hold onto the ball how did you maintain possession he hit that wall also have a bait and already I flipped over there are so many . Possibilities with a ball and wall and it did n't give it the reason I like him because you just noted that degree of difficulties and ten . And the fact that he knows that Jack he hurt bad and who knows what the hell 's gon na happen . And there was no flinch . There 's no second guessing you know he 's he ran Eddie EG timed perfectly Eddie knew he was gon na get this jacket that wall and into me . The bravery that comes with music and sports I get a raise relax okay there is there is certainly there is a greater because you know us that you are you can ruin a career of baseball player that I had their toughness and Christie 's baseball player I know I was n't it let 's not mine and I bet are already there 's talk baseball players that is are tougher than Pope talked about great and I 'm on record I saw -- parade moment after the game . After Vasquez crossed home plate and they all grated on him and somebody if for some reason it 's spree and we want celebration put water company opening here in Atlanta . On on on products read but he has great he was broadly flying right through you and I wanted to make disagree monitored right now it is that they got called audit . And I enjoyed it . I a lot of well that I think everybody looked at is that typical not surprised but there 's another angle or so extended gap because it gives you got to face a key test . And any kind of moves against miles expecting him in Utah whatever but the initial reaction to his soul what we so Neitzel I 'm David Price I do n't know about it . I do n't hear it all matters up is what Michael Vick said 90% perception that 's percent reality it 's towards that initial reaction is exactly what everybody thinks of David Price . So fourth inning we got to see because a lot of people were tweeting about the video third third in their own benefit of Dennis actress I. And they they do the legends out there and they show although one minute video highlights of the Korea . But this one was a little bit longer . Then what you normally get people like Louis tea and up out there does a lot of people understanding a lot of people remember all the people applauding . Last night it seemed in the video that I look at . It was a lot of water and I 'm wondering when the organization . Reported David Price think when you saw something like that . I mean lonesome to do with everybody message on this and not enough so they mentioned it legal Ron on the broadcast but again . Almost as David Price you know the actions right balloons you know download them put some urban . Some of like those that . Well he 's he 's my best answered I do n't know it 's a problem and I guarantee from sickness that but that 's what you hear from them . That 's a cheers yeah yeah yeah . I love the fact that these guys talked outside Eric yesterday talked him after his sitcom good we talked about before . You double down on Saturday and I 'm good I 'm done I do n't care would it do my job and I agree with what access because Shaughnessy is changed anything . If price made that up as well . Are because a lot of people did know the details lot of people have been listening . Ever since it did happen and nothing 's changed up his first time honoree on TV on on Thursday . A lot of people to look at there 's this and now they know details who want he 's going to be different he 's already done . Eighteen games since . Eighteen . And nothing is there 's nothing to do is not changed now . And yeah it you get any other polluted they had that that agree opportunity . To religious played Gasol I grew a little bit playoff I believe you 're the producer of your trot onto saint . Okay hold price as old by the Democrats take price to pick up on the back and let . Price price slipped three split pretty Kean basically gets to your . I hope I do n't give up its . Internet . Data bases together but they audit . Why is the rates it 's you that you would still like third option that 's it yeah evil why that 's why it 's blocking has n't Robin donors or would you do unusual and no . All right you 're protecting a one dentist in the park I did stood at a guessing that is taken apart . Stand apart if so this tank and they do n't write it off by saying all collective state of yes probably wo n't . But you know he 's also employed by Nelson and so he has to follow the guidelines the culture of done that NASA network . At them and the fans wanted to see this and I 'm sure the of the answered by NASA today is who we never show those moments when they put the legend sucked . But this news but they do n't want to be news the Red Sox do n't want this to be used they want it to go away . Well the best way of making go away is probably had rests . Which they should 've done first chance they should 've got the price . Before she came out and spoke to the media in front of us luck and maybe they did he justified and maybe that was part of the . The process all Alicia got him in Toronto today just go to consistently exactly do n't give do n't give a fought early some people on all parties coming right sit there address it because if that 's the case by tenure you 'll want one wrote for . You do this in Toronto would wan na Texas there was north Tampa and is an all star break and it 's this . It 's over I mean in my drag a little bit and Texas to some details commodity to related to the pick but leads the all star break this thing 's over as it should have happened on the other . It sounds from going shy she 's describing it that they could n't . Got a meeting together with a tool form both once Tom price came before his locker this weekend and doubled down that was it . It was over and I do n't what that with Winnipeg I think that was like that and is that all I changed him I changed only broadcast screw you . Kelly you . And I do n't blame act now for not wanting to beat them but here 's what I do fear down a wrote I do fear that . We 're not gon na see an awful lot of Dennis recklessly in the future and that would be out could change how they had to be concerned yeah I think it is a problem . I think it 's going to rob they 're gon na wan na make if you 're the Red Sox you 're gon na wan na make your players the uniformed personnel as comfortable as possible . They 're not comfortable with the sky . Guess what it 's going to be out eventually maybe not this year maybe next year I do n't know that 's what concerns . I took the phone calls we go coming up on oh and that 's at 6177797937 . Hulu tomorrow . It 's peace time right now in the morning media relations are actually pretty good food chain I do n't really do Sarah is peace right now the wartime against . We are in good good show right now . I live here we have . Figured it out to export way more Loney and Fauria talk sports race . Senior Bowl starts . Water on grass right there that that 's his honey hole that 's it and that 's why we play and that 's why in between the lines you do n't see any numbers because they do n't matter in writing that matters is who touches the dish the most . And navigate the pitcher 's pitch the and gold . And gold book . Few of the Smithsonian . You do n't hear a lot of his honeymoon talked on on the neutral parziale you do n't hear that mentioned off line and as for the since the explorer so that Motorola is considered long program right there that that 's his honey hole . That 's got a lot ahead that and an eagle and land it attack and a different perfect for that I only thought Phil Simms was initiated it perfectly that in essence can show they read policy solutions to our events Sunday night he . I have an accident pairing like that well and I did n't accidentally done to give a spells dot Amazon calls late at night wolf wolf attacked them . Rick I 'm wolf you do n't worry body 's fine bottle cap era mark wolf half wolf it is curable part wolf preventable became a throne that 's what the kids caramel . But it happens it and have a mouth works to find out her daughter the other day you know like . If I 'd better when its sights on blinking into whom have an outlook that I was like let 's say it was like dude I am my idol and one half your mouth Arctic . I actually thought about it . And so there 's a good three impose its I was transfixed on the fact that only what is it in the left side that works in the right side is take it it 's so too because some and his eyes moving as you tell it is only guy supposedly people is that if you Wear shades people tweet . Me and it 's great admitted there ca n't help because it was like I 'm so tired of this this is what we call this is what we call him . Then that 's all I heard all of I was as what we call this what we call my . They solicit also check out the fact is left I always play us . Just his left dynamite why you people doing this to me a game and enjoys they go to Rome and icing his left side has played a much . I 'll . Let you know it 's just . They make you aware of it there and now I 'm screwed what 's worse is cycle when somebody realizes that you 're staring at that . Issue that they have like if they doubt that once in I think you realize we were at Belmont magical about staring at . Is that also the and I did n't realize that I and I did n't see the guy I was I was transfixed and I 'll let them out flat iron and how much else to tell you would do when it 's calm . What you bring to . Threshold revise any of its . The browns do n't like it and it 's your relive those loose what is the X Ray Lewis Perdue there herds if feed them to Japan 3222 and then uncle found . Can you know English barrier lightly at all . And actually disclose more to note . Agassi is exited the music business questions . And it goes only . Again . And I actually think if somebody were two of them I actually think he can be pretty good . Because it is that they want because that was a double in the gap of greatly an awful route . And he talked about how bad it was the problem is that was hole ludicrous say that 's right but I 'm just saying that he could C does seat things . Meal on the field but he only sees the other team . Enemy is largely anything negative who have pointed out is good but I do n't think he 's ready evidence or its us and if that 's what they were supposedly his first game rightly analogies when he 's tired or something where I was I had was getting when I do n't like called Christians seem . Why is it 's his first weekend its first weekend doing games yes and I 'm in the Booth and I was originally when he 's in pregame last week and said he . I think he can be good yeah you that think he 's kind of entertaining Stanley and nothing yet another he 's not want to be credits is that how they 're all Diego will they wanted to know if this guy . Just some of them what I ask a lot of it 's not about letting them sure no way he can not even do you want him to decide not to he does n't wan na go there . You 'll go they know us and is enjoying will be negative he 's editorial Tellme . The alert on a wall pleasure my guys my voice an August game is cute mitts go grinder rise and John rising grass perfect for them you know perfect that 's what the guys that we are all rising ground . He 's over what does that mean . He 's not rise again up into grind out of . Hey they can notice the elitist you 're kidding after attacking the day you 're really OK good then you had for the honey holes in cities and everything in the kitchen sink . He 's seen a slider . What does honey hole . I do n't know tolerated in sort of mature at the hockey and hockey I. The cards . Water on Koran right there that that his honey hole . It 's something nobody listens via Swiss dried food spleen run differential to us like we had never seen the game of baseball before . I would hear that not the right differently because of his kind of confusing no it 's not this is the easiest thing and I talked about a new ahead . Can you some turn to ease my fingers you do n't even . Attention just as soon we 'll stone is an important . The end of the day when the numbers here . You are higher after this team has run differential . That would be . How many runs you were down the first how many runs you score . In Cleveland Indians are plus 97 so their offense that 's scored 97 more runs in their pitching staff has let up . The obvious . And but if finally makes sense I see the light movies have you you have got bored and you subtract two what 's you 're left with a actually use of their for four months to equals . Hughes is not zap stuff with the contract . Guys can ask this question you with his likable stuff the rob Bradford and they are now the Red Sox girl and India 's stand is this team 's starting to get likable unless it was you know Celeste like you 're closer Noonan who has been so phenomenal all of your law they 're okay . Gives up what . Because of Obama . And it is n't a couple of not sirens installed as a wild pig wiles alleged that makes him likable look at the new guy that they 've just got who 's gon na be your eighth inning guy right now and 31 batter what did you do made a great pitch otsuka . It did n't miss location at all . It 's . Driven deep to left center field racing back beyond . Is that what you Rhode . And this team is high . Great it 's there . It 's your own food or is that right on . Likable but that 's not miss the crew shale gives up five runs early in this game he 's been the best pitcher . By far is gon na win this Gordon did . Up five runs early was that like couple . That was how I do n't seek concerning but it does it make it look like it 's a very it 's is it is a delicate with him . Because we know it is like distract that you 're on a two on shake at all . Right yet he Leona band together and he had Vasquez and in Leo 's knee gets screwed up because an awful base running mistake minute game winner from great slide bad base running . And out of total and only owned that he screwed up but he 's a nice it 's . He just put a guy a basket put down numbers he 's thrown it is a five in the first inning and you know first inning and a half in else . Thank you neatly only needs Leon back there to just shake his calls on team . Who needs catcher called game Lou it was an a 's catcher away what happened the . Yeah maybe that 's an issue maybe they go back you know obviously when we do n't healthy again . This approach my but the whole likable here it was a fun game fun game was entertaining is had a points well importance . Sought quality voice and there 's not a points . And let 's go to W scored twelve . Lot of there 's a lot of really nice bat the ball better else skills a lot of us and ball and glove you know all glove was and they are all level out but . I do n't know how you can bring back the ball skills and I love the game suddenly say . It 's it 's likable and how they suddenly did they get likable . Within days of celebration at home . You wan na focus on the night and rescue the bombs to his helmet . Do n't walk off win well an accident or actually become work I think is about tickets score twelve runs every game than ever going to be a likable is no question we have Bradford you wonder would you advise like this team Arabic like distinctly like this team to get a big news . The article that likable now . Go to Baghdad he had all of you of that in his plot was apparently a lot of our I acted . To bring it out now it 's up to billion dollars lower level they just changed the date date date on them . Good for the good led to great ones break went the agreement bats and a table he has looked better Mullen has looked better . Jackie looks lost submitting giggle a little bit put activated devers and in new unions . These guys still rake and I 'm waiting for the missed our pitching and devers and they 're apparently do n't want to with a fastball crossed who could n't get in the habit that a beauty just any effect as well . Some rockets Iran poses to peace deal as we sit here right now it 's slowly starting to feel like this group might heavy chain . And that 's something that was n't part of the equation not too long ago . You 're you 're pitcher got lit up last night . Your closer got lit up last night the new guy that your eighth inning guy got lit up last night . Did you finally scored some runs up which you have n't been able to do points in April . 8 . May June and July August in new month and I thought you know six it 's got us in their suddenly like six guys you know 400 this month 6400 . Or better . Let 's let 's urging twelve runs a game one I do n't Christina waiting for finally getting it they 're back are you around the 28 that 's redress was awarded the world . It will reverse us on the twentieth at one region between it and we dress and a third album might have thought . I think in the third installment Buchanan snow event it is . I tore visit lol what 's up cliff . Maybe I 'm out of the game last night . I 'll make my story quit . Decided to go to game last minute dog 's going to be laid it ca n't square that loose inside and out and I hate when he bikes I did n't . In glass in the second inning a tie and applied apply . For second you give you twenty bucks whose that was before they became likable now it would Delphi and enough grief all the beer prices once things he dragged once they became likable it was a 150 dollar ticket and go ahead . Soul I wan na park I 'm not a big comment about not that great catch in center field . Everybody stood out because McDonald 's all home run down we did n't also Albright and the replay so I wish all waiting to close . Well when they finally showed that replays from the cold and windy which obviously these he caught it everybody cheer them so I wan na make you know I just wan na say that . I was proud to be part of that moment where . You know washingtonians do n't cheered white players black players we cheered baseball players who made great plays and I was happy to be that game . The great decision to go had a lot of . Jill which you know what Beaumont Jones are urgently the tart would say today . If your world today they would have stood up for a longer time . Below it would go on girl say every now and then you know blind squirrel finds an occasional acorn and that you just went out on its . Really says that 's Johnny do n't want to say it 's sad that even crosses anyone 's bunt disguise that I was proud that I was in Fenway in watching for instance here prove people wrong because we 're defensively amazingly touching him and yet we 're defensive about this . Because that 's what people do people point at Boston . And they look at color and how people here really the most part that 's what they do so we 're we 're defensive now and we have to pointed out . Because the people that market broadcasting . On their Sports Radio stations are somewhere between awful and evil so when they think that when they think that in some way . A person of color . Is being treated poorly . By the fans and Boston it is all over ESPN is all of these versions it bring it up it 's water off that . It 's bright it 's their gear pick of the day right the gold standard racist and so last that we had a situation . Where in a formal mark . An athlete got himself a standing ovation it was loud and it was well deserved because that was one of the greatest catches and again never seen him . And do you think anybody 's gon na brag about it and anybody can point out race here today any of these national guys . Either you can see it now we have no no it got to be we have to do it because we have to sit there and say see . See that 's right . If this group and it is stupid it makes no sense but we have the doe eyed 61777. 793 said . That 's always a math on WEEI. 140 characters of new England sports know how every game keep up with the show on Twitter at oh man . EI let 's give you back to more of Fort Wayne rebellion 48 right now . What Sports Radio telling you . We were with what you 've seen him . For a applicants . Or way in the back excellence and show . Ward away . At that point that you but I got forward yesterday all I know is shortly has attempted to submarine my career a number of times . Eighties fails . Oh wow Jerry started submarines and create some of it yeah . How there are some ideas for how are you hate to see talking . Here are the when I do n't know he was oh yes Steve it that I wo n't realize it at that you got to own data that you analysts okay we Q musketeers annual career paths core cigars for wind through the show is still going on stability friend Steve yes he 's seriously out ten weighs in . I just think when he 's in I did n't know who stand by gamma . Yeah and that 's a decision by Fred I told these guys what was . So Comcast is you probably know little or making big cutbacks over there are tech and hear cutting back stuff so that was an independent show . In which Comcast does seem rights fee for that program . Did n't pay for all of the stuff including NFL he 's the film which is what you 're up there . It is that . Yeah . Like the job romance there 's no Christmas present to understand he admitted on the air and that they 're not . Mean for them to take you to do they take him he 's back he 's . Did it take your job when they see edu and Christian . We 'd like you to work on Saturday room room for free on new Melissa but on the economy county employee put all encompassing would you use it . It 's like I work that you sit down his mastery is right these screenplay as they did episode publishes a non Linear . We knew if you sit in the chair yet if you are no longer sit in the chair and now he 's sitting next year . The end to keep jobs most . And sitting in a different sheer . Well he 's still onset but no not on the question if you are you when you are on how to stretch of the hosts the deal with war with you know with fuel the host with Steve and Fred . And now he stuck hosts with Stephen Fred . How do it is a partner in here really . Job . See I say I think of job I. A job where you get paid more . You get paid to do this career now what do we should come in here and you 're like both of us are a lot of us wo n't do dual . Would you commit here if they offered you zero money ties to talk about price in peril absolutely zero I do n't do enough regional through I would say Albany I. All right Mario Molina that exists you 've got . Pushed yeah frequent area . Which means you get my boy does that work boogie he did n't want to he did n't wan na take big huge cut in pet . So there was a cut in and apparently deference concerned about stuff like I was willing to do the program . When they were with a woman from . But for a huge cut in pay because I enjoy doing with those guys we go like dinner after smoke cigars Ellis copy of fellowship night . Also ran stories yes old yet you get you an excuse to go out party it hey on more so I enjoyed the experience and I love doing the show he did it for 22 years of when it was it was a blast it was fun . Yet but when they cut them the money in and Fred is that they earn eight you do n't want the cut my compass so we . It looked at it we got this happened to her . We can give you some money . When they say and when they say would n't give you somebody from often . In Alfred talking . It 's not a threat is gone for a business summit county there 's going to be a problem so you do n't problem not enough not for you not all of it is great ideas I know I thought I 'd thought . Do n't have a problem the only friend . Yet my management so why I 'm that it neurosurgeons . Let 's get to do what Fred wants to do on his own I can tell Fred what to do which basket you know that 's who used runner I do n't . I do n't have a problem I mean if that 's what he wanted to do doing protecting against notre would n't . Are you gon na do that 's OK . I think might be doing the real postage almost nobody else does it needs to stay out of this thing sort of thing abstinence seems seems like Switzerland . Indonesia stays in . Trips and so yes I want my point use it that this is going to be a problem uses ruby I just that is za Gaza topic do n't act like you do n't care about . You gave birth to this sudden you you raised its target doubts as well in all you had a discordant side under the flyers scored a touchdown to win that when the Super Bowl and that you did all the work he says . Lima . Does n't say thanks Glen you did all the work title which alone with the Fred finds out that penguins beat the crap . Tom Brady during the deflected wait till the president finds out ten it and watch the game . Yes my point . I I just I just tell him I believe I am these . He knocked it out with you what I 'll know they and I saw every case not I not you order not saying yet I have just got to you pick and walking back to get his stuff . He 's like as a way I roll on to prep I 'd . That you should n't say . Is that I did on not a you should definitely do do you think it 's so this guy that 's going to lead this you know that you . So who produces is it just okay here 's the rundown though we have added these guys a question about the way we have producer liked the show we have meetings and stuff like that the priest he would never at a meeting with . Meetings in with a pretty talk about our town production here at some solidarity and you sit at a cost how much . To buy film you let him talk about this NFL films NFL films themselves films to run I think three and a half minutes . Of films from NFL films is probably somewhere around three grand now no way a week the week . Someone as old rhetoric and surely you I 'll Dolly just held four minutes of Canadians and yet but yeah it 's a recession still Comcast does it cited IE do n't I baseball shall go for half the video on one rush I did this date I brought is really an option . You know so they wan na they wanted to do to hold tells trader you know screen where they break down a plate from like three weeks ago because again LT unity paper right now they give are getting old footage that given degrades them . This as Angela kimono baseball suit and do n't go . Perfect that 's Caracas Buffalo , New York we all do that we 're gon na notice that the players to rotate guys in and threw . That 's the genius that figured teacher is we 're not okay did your problem is Lou finally it 'll be viewed this . If he 's your try getting your honey hole yeah he 's you do n't . Well because he 's gon na watch on Medicaid over the Charlotte they went out it collapses and you know that 's a you wan na do is allow this guy shouted no no it 's solid and Orton . I 'm from under armour . I like the whole kitchen sink into the that 's all the way and everything else until along with emergencies and everything in the kitchen scene . It does because one guy you date for RI has been a champion hello JIJ . All of our Holy See this bottom line in and out and stick with us . The play during World War II it is an Italian thing today the judge . Hello Jake . Well I 'm home I 'm gon na models eagle or how little we wacky call strategic right now out of nowhere that you guides . Sky 's falling the seventh anchor of the Bermuda where he has conquered . Amendment out . And movie does look good than I have I do n't know if I want it does look good runner is not here while we women 's Jessica are so I 'm not gon na see how it was kind of historically I 'll probably say yeah . They they should partisan bigger role in the judge is ready at the stuff allows the mentally . Out down Jake what he 's got a little drone work in the woody do n't . Not actually dialogue right now I 'll see you . It was one times . And started July . For our four day or honey oh there it is it 's there and it 's more down most of them take what are you talking about we could n't get into your second . Excellent yeah . Second shot that can not I 'd I 'd think he roommate . On yeah yeah yeah from . Knobs got a yankees Germany would you do with that age I know you 're gon na get aliens and other does n't get dirty . I get a yankees are done as the agent did n't excellent guy it 'll hey I. There 's him . That 's the guy that loves for a supportive and just say hey I 'm just and I hit it does n't matter . Then it and that 's his goal line you girls what do you think the guys are like that the lewd tilt to where they act there 's dilute till it 's hard to say back . Asked who took to make speaking out of work for you you do n't . Our loot you there are other more hours of foreign before emirates . The air . But did about . Eight billion pounds yeah . Well I 'll used to be and Joey and yet synonymous let 's hit a shot oh he embedded now Steve is so I do n't know I do n't . Yeah . Well I was on the original intentions but it was those two regionally and Steve Buckley gas was . You do n't have to give blood on what happened until he lost his job here . You talk and hit a stop it . Better stuff happens you know . Wow and I eventually supposed to think of fish what does that mean well . Usually in life there 's always the bigger and stronger and it is out of time . Guys a fish but you want the bigger fish yes yes thinks there 's a bigger fish out there now what are you waiting grass is n't always greener prefer I do n't mean that it 's actually might be a tint of green Beverly . Obscene and it 's not always better guess upon the other side right now what went well he 's a low can it done and done I think that 's a guarantee . Yes . Sox win . Will be along and . Same doctor as I do n't eight billion dollars sarcasm humor and undulating panel that he has n't it and you 'll harvest the Bruno I think he 's I 've talked and I was there it is and you . Because that that 's something I would say sarcastically . And that he 's from . I do n't . I do n't know I think is his biggest problem is he he thinks too much . He needs to just listen to these detainees are kidnapped Elizabeth Jonny Gomes would just be much better features said . Leaked let 's call like you see like let 's just open it on let 's go live via par would rather tell on films and there was that mr. timlin . Or Jonny Gomes is far more would you rather pavlik the but I can be comforted . And indulgent or else take that as a disease in his final I 'll take actors leave for a hundred Davydenko is ultimately thirty so you get your final here . I 'm not ensure he 'll be doing thirty and of the year from now . Hopefully I hope he 's going to be doing it that 's what the public wants it was pretty obvious by the reaction last night was n't it at Fenway crowds did n't think he would he would hear that . A 100% . But the people on apple inning though in the studio went well beyond the fact that he 's a hall of Famer and soul legend he 's you 're all but . Okay . We do this every night . Now this of horror every week that 's what this was about this was about showing total support if David Price and on down there in the dugout . They 're dropping my handled it 's an oh . Well written well because you advanced here in . And it 's right . That 's regular for cheaper because also you guys here and it wo n't do him day . Human activities do you think the Red Sox are going to sit there and say we 're gon na support . A guy who was canned on the here but that our players ca n't stand it 's just David Price . We now know that there were good number of people in that clubhouse that were supported the price because they ca n't stand Crimsley . Because they do n't like the fact that he 's best candidate studied in clinical . He 's ca n't we all are on a positive exactly as too heated and middle . Call it could be good quality good that 's fast it 's . Pitch to . Sometimes it happens OT fast folic pitchers his own protection they wo n't Nazis Tony Hall so if your players and you 're giving management . Hard times that you do n't we do n't want him appear in net broadcast Booth we do n't want him on the same plane we do n't want him around us . He 's not one of us we want that brought the broadcasters . To be one of us . Or is he lives that the stuff . And and does n't get to the point where funny gets fed up . Well . It 's at the echoes back in again you know does this thing . And it is any push back now into its outlets out to happen again immigrant you know I I try to come back in just do my thing I hope it never happens . Well that they 're going anywhere . Right but I mean I do n't either that I 've Mel B my fears that he goes out and does his thing in the people continue to deride him on that team needs to signal that you would if everybody else to almighty here . Only this crap anymore go to fox into the post these post season alone fox do their Saturday game right . That that would be huge loss for us again today that right now that would be good . Question is did the Red Sox management . Hold out and just say I know our players are not happy about this but give the public loves . Public loves this guy right now lieutenant and he 's not rip on the team I 'm sorry he 's not written deep but did you think the players you know I 've ever heard ready to acknowledge stuff so yes . I mean you know I think the last couple years there 's been outstanding . I really do I greeted very good now that he 's afraid to sit there 's you get that bugged out . All you got ta do this he got to do that you know or after game one gimmick and believe because he 's that he would not that . Thank you you know as a Miranda up you know so it 's just . This history there agent penetrate their . Priced to defeat his agenda I would talk more about it go through your writing is always on it has yet to Namibia . Part of it that the players want the guy to be down there in the club house does need to know he does n't eat today . But it 's the sources of intimidation contaminate the guy a little blip . I 61777979371 . Of assaulting a budget to grapple in the pitching these numbers so four and practiced knowledge you know at practice . Why are people even concern that is numbers suck . This . 
@@19832847 <h> How We Should Respond to Photographs of Suffering <p> Renty , a man taken from the Congo , in Columbia , South Carolina , in 1850 . <p> Photograph by J. T. Zealy / Wikimedia Commons <p> Several years ago , while staring at a photograph of torture on the front page of the newspaper , I began seriously asking myself a question that many people had asked before : What should one do when faced with images of violence ? I spent thirteen years researching the question , which became more urgent as those years passed and social media began connecting people around the globe . Every week , perhaps every day , something terrible happens somewhere in the world , and , whether it is far away or right at home , we are inundated with images of the horror . Do these images harm their subjects ? Is it an ethical violation to make a photograph of suffering beautiful ? Do I have a right to look at other people 's pain ? <p> I read theorists who claim that violent images are pornographic , theorists who point out the narcissism of worrying about the effects of images on viewers , theorists who fear that looking at images of suffering extends that suffering . Then I read Ariella Azoulay 's " The Civil Contract of Photography , " which was first published , in Hebrew , in 2007 , and translated into English by Rela Mazali and Ruvik Danieli the following year . Suddenly , every question that seemed important to me felt beside the point . Azoulay , a curator , filmmaker , and professor at Brown , is not interested in viewers ' emotional responses to images of suffering . It 's not empathy she 's after ; she wants action . Images can transform the world , she argues , and the only reason they have n't yet is because we do n't know how to look at them . The problem is n't images ; it 's us . <p> To Azoulay , who was born in Tel Aviv and educated in Israel and France , the invention of the camera was not merely a technological leap , the introduction of a new machine . Rather , it was the " invention of a new encounter . " Cameras allow ordinary people to take pictures of other ordinary people , and they also allow ordinary people to take pictures of dictators and fascists and states committing violence . " Photography reorganized what was accessible to the gaze , " she writes . It gave people the chance to share their visual field with one another , to see more than they could see alone , to be in otherwise unreachable times and places . Azoulay calls photographs " transit visas " and insists that the camera grants a kind of citizenship that transcends borders . Through the taking and viewing of images , new lines of belonging are drawn . We are citizens not of nations but of images . We are accountable to one another , responsible for what the camera lets us see . <p> This responsibility , for Azoulay , is not abstract . Photographers and people who have let themselves be photographed assume that someday people will see their images and do something in response to what they see , she argues . They imagined you , their future viewer , hovering above them at the moment the picture was taken , and you must live up to their expectations . Azoulay began working on the book in the fall of 2000 , at the beginning of the Palestinian uprising known as the second intifada ; in the introduction , she writes that " observing the unbearable sights presented in photographs from the Occupied Territories " formed the main motivation for her writing . In some ways , the heartbeat animating " The Civil Contract " is the obligation that Azoulay feels to restore citizenship to " dispossessed citizens " and her hope that photography might play a crucial role in this work . Though not all of the included photographs depict violence and its aftermath , the book focusses squarely on images of pain and suffering -- and on what to do when encountering such pictures . Viewers , through careful observation of images of horror , become witnesses who " can occasionally foresee or predict the future , " she writes . As a result , they can warn others of " dangers that lie ahead " and take action to prevent them . <p> In order to do this , we must learn how to look at photographs -- an ability Azoulay describes as a " civic skill . " Throughout " The Civil Contract , " she models this skill , analyzing a series of photos by Eadweard Muybridge of a woman spanking a child ; the photo , from 1845 , of the abolitionist Jonathan Walker 's branded hand ; the image of a man shot in the street in Hebron , in 2000 ; a photograph of Napoleon III 's son in a photographer 's studio ; a young boy having his picture taken for an identity card in Gaza , in 1971 ; a dead and unidentified migrant worker bleeding on the ground in Tel Aviv , in 1998 . She also writes about how to look at rarely seen images in a troubling chapter titled " Has Anyone Ever Seen a Photograph of a Rape ? " There , she wrestles with the effects of rape 's near-invisibility outside of pornography and asks whether it is possible to fight effectively against sexual violence if it " is n't accessible to the gaze . " Azoulay 's emphasis throughout the book is on the spectator , who bears responsibility " toward what is visible . " To be resisted , it seems , violence must be seen , and photography makes such vision possible . You could read " The Civil Contract " as a how-to manual for looking at photographs , though one that 's dense and strange and sometimes makes you cry . <p> Reading the book , I was reminded of " Photography 's Other Histories , " a collection of essays edited by Christopher Pinney and Nicolas Peterson . In the introduction , Pinney rethinks the long-held belief in the indexicality of photographs : the idea that photographs have a natural , even physical , relationship with their referents , and are thus somehow truer or more accurate than other forms of representation . Yes , photographs show what was there , Pinney argues , but what was there can be much more than what the photographer wanted the viewer to see . Unlike a painter whose brush can exclude whatever the painter wants , the photographer 's lens must be left open , and something extraneous will always enter the scene . " Margin of excess , " Pinney calls it . " Subversive code . " As a result , he argues , rather than being guarantees of certainty or proof , photographs are volatile , fertile , open , and available to uses that the photographer may not have intended . <p> To demonstrate how even pictures taken as exercises of domination can subvert the photographer 's intentions , Azoulay turns to a series of daguerreotypes of people enslaved in Columbia , South Carolina , on the plantation belonging to Benjamin Franklin Taylor , a graduate of Mount Zion Institute and Princeton , who served one term in the South Carolina legislature . The biologist Louis Agassiz ordered these images made ; he wanted to use photography to substantiate his claim that not all human beings belonged to the same species , to prove that blacks were inferior to whites , to justify the enslavement of some bodies by other bodies . With the help of his colleague Dr. Robert Gibbes , a paleontologist , who was friends with local slavers , Agassiz travelled to the Taylor plantation , set up a studio , and hired J. T. Zealy to take the daguerreotypes . Out of the enslaved people Taylor presented to him , Agassiz chose the individuals he wanted photographed : five men of African birth and two African-American women , daughters of two of the men . Labels for each photograph record the subjects ' names , the African tribe with which they were affiliated , and the name of their owner . The images were found in the attic of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology , in Cambridge , Massachusetts , in 1976 , more than a hundred years after they were taken . <p> To make humans appear to be marketable , sellable , disposable property -- to create the illusion of bodies without kin -- slavers separated parents from children , wives from husbands , sisters from brothers . Owners ' records largely used matriarchal attribution to trace the lineage of children born into slavery , noting a child 's mother and not her father , because the biological fathers were often the owners themselves , who raped enslaved women . Agassiz 's daguerreotypes inadvertently re-inscribed the very father-daughter relationship that slavery tried to erase , though that was likely not his intention . Azoulay argues that Agassiz chose to photograph fathers and not mothers so the picture-taking might become a " performative event " in which white men could act out their superiority on the bodies of black men . Imagine that room with the camera set up on its tripod , Azoulay proposes . Imagine enslaved men subjected to the gazes of the camera and of the white men gathered there . Imagine fathers forced to watch their daughters as they , too , were subjected to those gazes , daughters who were ordered to strip , to peel down their dresses , to expose their breasts , a reenactment of the auction block , where naked women were groped by sellers and potential buyers , their bellies and breasts grabbed so slavers could determine how many children the women could bear and nurse , how many more enslaved people they could produce . Yet even as they stood within this violence , Azoulay writes , the subjects of Agassiz 's images could see there was a small opening : the photographs could capture not their inferiority but their equality , their humanity . " Photography subverted Agassiz 's presumption , " Azoulay writes . Rather than documenting the sub-humanity of the enslaved , the images document the inhumanity of the owners . The photographed men and women knew the violent and violating gazes that rested on them that day did not exhaust all possible gazes . With their expressions of contempt and indifference and anger , the subjects in the images address someone who is not yet present . They address us . <p> Repeatedly , Azoulay asks her readers to project themselves into the scenes of photographs , to notice the power dynamics at play , to identify the participants , and to view the outcomes not as inevitable but as one possibility among many . Looking at photographs this way , Azoulay thinks , can loosen events from their seeming inevitability and reveal that history did n't have to proceed the way it did . Things could have been different . Viewing a photograph becomes a kind of reanimation : the still photograph begins to move , and though this motion can not erase inequality , it can trouble oppression that might otherwise seem intractable . Azoulay understands that actions in the past are irreversible , yet she insists that photography introduces a kind of malleability , the potential for change . " The photograph is out there , an object in the world , " she writes , " and anyone , always ( at least in principle ) , can pull at one of its threads and trace it in such a way as to reopen the image and renegotiate what it shows , possibly even completely overturning what was seen in it before . " <p> The more I return to Azoulay 's work , the more I 'm convinced she might actually think the past can be changed . Photography , in her hands , takes on an almost shamanic power . Viewing a picture becomes a way of offering healing or reparation to those already dead . Her book scared me -- I felt overwhelmed by her proposal that every time I look at an image of a person in pain I am bound to that person , obligated to try to end that person 's suffering . I thought of a friend whose son was diagnosed with a fatal disease . When he was dying , people would say to her , " I ca n't imagine what you 're going through . " She would respond , " Yes , you can imagine it . You just do n't want to . " <p> For many years , I said I did n't know what to do when I encountered an image of another person in pain or dying or already dead . After reading Azoulay , I could no longer claim that I did n't know what to do . She had explained the work in detail . The question for me now is whether I am up to the task . 
@@19852758 <p> Yeah . Our tail in Hollywood heat Sports Radio WEP guys . David Price that he would . Dennis technically I just threw the ball there in the open that anyplace . As as reports I was given a home run what that Dennis Eckert in the back from . Yeah I believe so for those that he 's great that he knows that he or anybody else and that 's always the back . It 's great I love it and let 's and I thought I was doing things I would use the outfielders as my as my guy . You know it 's it 's sometimes hard to judge how well up outfield is always now . So I would I would look immediately to the outfield wherever the ball was going I 'd look at the center fielder all know he 's he 's given up on that I love when they do n't even move . With a home run his dad had the right field that went side by do n't wan na go deep into the and not by rivers do n't . There 's that crazy . This is . This is really crazy . You know this is gon na happen you throw hanging hook like this means is that rollers what was and he does n't miss that he does n't mean . This guy 's best bowl . Two guys on it hurts . So let 's say you got a master . Hang in hook . Who rumbled the wan na be bop around this thing he says no you go for the show here 's good guy he addressed it I was hoping that they would well and and lets it it did n't take long so this is what Dennis Tankersley said . Before the game he and Dave O'Brien at the beginning of the show last night Dave O'Brien delighted rejoined by all the data sectors Lee Jamal Webster joining us in just couple moments . Great to see you back in the Booth . How things were going . A pretty good lately . At Riviera I got ta wan na be bop around and yes indeed it 's brutal really because it 's a very unfortunate . Set of circumstances but I think you know everybody wants to move on I 'm the guy wants to move on and the fans I wan na say the fans have been great to support they dig giving me . Is incredible but let 's move on the Red Sox are trying to win . And Rick Priscilla trying to do that out of that Gaza . But better than nothing on me is that knows their chance that they 're just gon na pretend that nothing ever happened but it becomes such a big story . Even had David Price as disgusted Dave Dombrowski John Ferrell and everybody has disgusted and a couple of articles written about it . And a week and a half of radio talk on it . So that was good days they discussed it and then was even better or rolling the pilots were just playing words actors leave the exact things that he loved them before your along nowadays price of them they 're priced into a thing to change I was gon na call again . Our let 's tidy up a few things before we bring you the entire Tom Brady press conference from earlier today first of all are under armour stock is split five times since 2012 . So good news no bake sales necessary for Tom and Gisele there going to be OK he 's made probably a small fortune off this thing which is what kind of on anyway . The stock keeps letting in and while the stock prices down . Dramatic theater has split a number of times the information that was five times since since 2015 . You want the good news that no I do n't have any good news about the Red Sox bottom audio did some good news London may actually send the bad news to be the bad news first . David Price . Not able to throw today . Soreness in his elbow . He is now listed as day today as to whether or not or when he will throw on flat ground . So owners today he was asked the scale of one to ten where would be if it was a one a few days ago . Higher than us now general soreness is different than he 's got pain in his elbow right . In itself will you be on . Who . But over that I 've . Well if you go what came out it 's a but general soreness probably did n't sound as bad . I guess . General he 's an ordinance . And he 's he 's not able to play not able to throw on now day to day estimate to be able to prom next . And it just makes you wonder how far he 's been sent back by Alice amiga it 's more bad news great Carson Smith . A reason he 's back sooner that we told he begins his rehab tomorrow in Portland . According to John Farrell he will not throw back to back days on his rehab assignment make sense . He will work every third day . And then Ferrell said they 'll see worry is at the end of the month OK our patent itself will you be on . Thank you for . I would n't I would n't do that a bios you make sure that you got to replay and I appreciate it let me have that out forever but I cartons that this fight is . I think you and I agree were like well we 're not expect anything out of Carson 's death but then when they started talking about what he 's pitching when he might make some rehab outings or sand while . Maybe could be another edition interview would be sometime early in the month . But there are n't gon na look at the the end of the month so maybe we see him in September but I guess I 'm going back to my we are not gon na see him . This year and I mean I knew that you know he 's gon na have some rehab appearance is that made sense has n't thrown an over a year that all made sense . I guess I did n't realize it was going to be a month long rehab assignment apparently and any and then . John Ferrell said they 'll see where he sat in his progression is there 's no guarantee that it Reagan 's impact Joseph Kelly on the other hand will be activated for tomorrow 's game got out one thing Ferrell said is that they will use him in what he describes as a lower leverage situations at least . You know to get ramp back up but available beginning tomorrow back on the team back in the bullpen . And we 'll see . Where it goes also Sid bass and Reid is an eighth inning guy or he 's a seventh inning up four guys . Gasket blew belts so Tom Brady met with the assembled media today down at Gillette Stadium . He was sock outside in front of that fancy backdrop . He did have his Jersey turned inside out . So that you could n't season I think look I think or the NFL or all of north south Robertson let Gillette long below it was a gutsy any of them . Why he 'd be met with the assembled media and we think this was his first group press conference release since the Super Bowl . Any sort of began the whole thing when the media asked him how it feels to be forty years old . Know that they feel like I did yesterday morning they 've where so is it is nice so many people came out and which media happy birthdays . It was very nice a lot of support and went beyond the fields are good for a long time so . Yet I 'm you know I 'm . I 'm really blessed to play with you know such great teammates and coaches and you know that have up to you wo n't play every day . Tom is somehow oysters though . I mean doing it for a long time in you know hopefully that 's getting a lot of experience you know to do the right thing and you know help our team is best right here so . Part of you that your players really helping the younger guys and learning curve in . You know working hard to accomplish a lot of things out here is camp goes on a lot of situations today was a lot of situations so it 's good to have the experience and it 's still . You know it 's the great have a love for the game and my teammates my coaches and it 's funny economic matters . A lot alike you know I 've had . You know few Smart . You know what I 'm doing and how do and it and you know the routine changes to your body changes . And you 've got to be Smart to get older and I do n't working harder for a long time I got a great regiment . And down . You know it 's just it 's a process for me but they 're the best part about as I drove what I 'm doing so it never really feels like . Homework and added you know that I really love doing enough cracks in outlook from there and left training for a pilot planes . So it 's just a you know make a point hopefully . What is that about right . Well I I think it 's just . You 're always working on things to try to get better through I think part of this game is when you see yourself making improvements really you know you work on certain things . That requires discipline that requires no work yet and then we see it pay off and a positive way when you do n't those things that reinforce . You 're doing so . You know I 'm always trying to find different things to improve on you I went over the course of the season . You know a lot of it 's on the that you go backwards a little bit get new players to work on new things there 's new schemes other teams have gotten better . So you got ta get continue on Thursday and so . You know just keep working hard things that hey you 're good at being that that you work in the NC collectively that your team needs to do and I think that 's part of the process . Work out hearted every year . Why else . Allotted after . Yeah . To tell . Is it like another concussion last . I. You know I do n't . And I do n't wan na get it that you know they have a much that 's certainly medical history and so forth I really do n't think that 's anybody 's business . You know what happened last year and both on this year improvement and we 're pumping they need to get better so . That 's how I approach everything I 'm not sitting here we 're about . But here five years ago there 's other people that you worry about that my wife for my parents are my sisters are you know people that love me care about that . You know I do best I can do now be prepared to play him mentally physically and I did n't you know I ca n't . And it . He 's been a lot you know he 's been yes I can say you know he 's he 's been great . Just so fun to be with soap and worked with . Comes in every day with a great attitude wants to work hard and is unselfish in . Been out here every day practicing and working on different things and you know he and I built enough room for . But that takes a lot of time to build it . That goes all the way through the season it 's one thing to start camp and all out in the and we are spring camps in August and then . You work those through those things although it through the season and let things that come on the scene that you had their chance to practice so . We 're working hard at it and we 're talking about the dangers . You know a lot of things that go on to try to improve the learning curve . But you know he 's just been he 's so so much gon na be around you really adds they 're great group . Of other receivers and unfortunately it for a long time . Well . Extremely important I mean there 's no way today . You know everything we do is to come out here practice he . Everything you do an off season for training and work outs in rest and recovery is to come out and proven on the field so . You know you ca n't get better by not doing anything . And at least that 's not what I believe so Ivy League you have to be really . You know active with your training you have to go to run the rest you have to learn from mistakes of certain mistakes you 're gon na happen . And I do n't . Good of shouting let you have you go to cities reps in you know a lot of times are wrong and you got ta correct them . So it 's just a process . Friday at CN . In the works reevaluate tried to have better and then try to get there is n't any of those things as possible for the game that he there . Yet there was a great catch . You know I try to drama outside and we got those kind of free play and I think . NIC some other teams do that and you know to make whatever fit your clear how far that was with a big play . But that those kind of plays we need it I think . That 's if we can build those things and our offense and make some of those downfield plays that . You know that takes more pressure off other parts of the offense and certain guys are making plays that are done if they had a coverage they got respected and you know I 've always that I try to throw where they 're not so . If they 're deep you know short of their short and there would be if they 're outside or inside and turn the program they 're not so I was . You know great examples today of what we 're trying to do . He says the fifties that I 'm they guy is that the fifty that he wants . You know I just love doing that so . Again I 've never . Not thought . About I 've never thought about not play so . I 'm at least in my mid forties that 's that 's that I that 's pretty cool in itself . And we 'll see when I get there but it 's been it 's been so thoughtful pause that 's that your word part of my life and now . You know I fell in love with the game when I was young and still in love with it today it was my outside my family my first love and to get here promptly with the teammates that I view of the coaches and represent this team and organization has anything bunkers . No along with California . On me this my my home in I love them on haircuts and get ready to play . Yeah I do n't lie and I was really it was fun I think I 've been . Some of these guys are so young and it 's . But it 's being you know they keep me young too so on I had a nice birthday cake from Jimmy to Kobe . Jacoby wrote hold on it . That 's my age so . They certainly have a lot of fun but I had so many people that you sent me notes and it was very very thoughtful . Yeah I 've become . You know friends that threat . Right gable coached him with the jets and became friends in you know Bryant it was here in . We ran I found a way to connect for Bryon and he 's been someone I 've always talked and so I really enjoy it he 's done . You know I just love this I admire him for so long we talked about certain things . But yet he was incredible . You know plane is as an old quarterback and he 's got a great love for the game . Side uses these phenomenal player it 's looked up . Yeah . Yeah it was say on . It I think it 's rewarding you know for me but for our entire team you know I think a lot of guys . Make a big commitment to play and you know we talked about some inherent risks in football . I think there 's a big sacrifice your family mixes well . You know to get to this point takes a lot of people helping you along the way and it 's a lot of support . You know my wife takes care of our home you know in a great way to allows me . You know its base to come out here really played pretty . My family in my parents have traveled from the West Coast the East Coast which is not easy flight you know for . You know eighteen years and and go back to college for 23 years ago my sisters from out here my sister youngest sister moved out here to . Help me when I was younger still lives out here . It just takes a lot of people and you ca n't . You know you ca n't play your eighteen year without a lot of people supporting you and loving you in . You know whether that 's mentors or whether that 's people that . You know just take your things in your life that you could possibly take care because of the commitment that you 're making this work so . When it all pays off rests with winning and super votes that makes it very magical and you know we have a chance celebrate that for the rest of our life . You know you think about that the big picture and then . Do you keep it focused on the short term and obligations you have this team and what they 're asking me to do and for the new players what they expected me and you know you got ta start back from an expression of year . Well that is . You know a lot of and and I talked you know a lot of different players are grounds really worked hard so . I 'm you know he 's gotten older and on prodding him for you know the effort that he 's putting in this offseason he always puts in a lot of effort . You know he 's got a great work ethic so hope they really pays off from again it 's a contacts were . And you got to prepare yourself especially camper . What we 're about to face and we put ourselves in harm 's way a lot . And you Timmy you 've got to be proactive about how you condition your body to be prepared for . And you know he 's done a great job itself as well as have a lot of guys and you know hopefully we meet and greet sees it and it I. Or . Yeah well I think a lot of people last you know when you get to be my age . Hopefully I 've I 've gained some wisdom in the things that I 've done a chart a lot of things they have works you know I 've tried a lot of things they 've worked in the Villa things that work in and you . Throw away things that do n't work in . You know . I feel like I know what to do I had a lot of experience at doing it . And it 's paid off for me you know I 've really enjoyed this word I do n't wake up with pain and I come out and play a game and keep working on things that I wan na improve that . You know every year and it 's been a lot of fun for me so . You know hope they can share that with a lot of people would be great you pass on that was and that 's . I think that 's part of our responsibility as a player to do that other players you may wan na see the same thing so it 's been relate to our record . I was Tom Brady with a median down excellent stating today . Whole thing about fourteen minutes . We cut it down to about twelve because it was embarrassing on his part to admit that cold plays one of his favorite plants in those of you save him from now but now you just told everybody while ago I do n't feel that slept the whole issue to hold on the line difficult place to and that he said he liked to sneak out . My favorite bands out passes bad time to think he 'll be allowed to go on the aghast that he probably got to wait and get into the building you might yeah . The regular ticket he wants to you know watch the show for a little bit . Wide ranging . Reiterated doubled down wants to play to les mid forties . Annie said and we 'll see how we feel . He 's a good he even past that level . Guy evidently it was it was Robert Kraft who said he 'd like lately was fifty and and times at 5050 . The daily said that once I pray they will also exit of maybe of that also on how he 's got a relationship with Brett Favre and were going over some of the quarterbacks . That actually started . Games in their forties . In the list is not very long and him then when he wants out of our guys that actually played well it 's even shorter . On Brett Favre Warren Moon might beating tireless . It 's you sort of talk as far as he 's built a bit of a relationship there through Brian Dave Ball and and so he 's got to know wrecked parts is Jennifer . Calibrated ZE admired how he put Leo is that looked up to the way you played which is by he does n't really play like him and ultimately it is very different say that you like I respect that guns killing area and a little bit differently American you know Oliver suck it up and hopefully we 'll catch I would do things a little bit differently . A bit and talk about what we sort of jumped off the show with . About how you know he was n't gon na get into he did n't deny that he had concussions but he obviously did n't say that he did . And says that he 's aka . Negated that does n't think it 's anybody 's . Business now once the season rolls around that 's what it does become everybody 's business the NFL has made it a point . To allow to be everybody 's business and they they give you major ports and everything else . You know Wednesday Thursday Friday that leading up to game time . But right now during the pre season . Classic patriots answer to a relic of the past the the past you know when you talk about them . What happened in the past progress or the Super Bowl reverent some of the most recent game let alone you know week seven or whatever was that he may or may not about a concussion . Not gon na talk about that they 're they 're all about this year . Some eternally lorries and who turned that on I 'd pictured some getting fired on the deck here on out . You made Tom raises voice you 're done I feel like I 'm yelling . He needs a voice all season long . He sounded quite relaxed as he usually does in these things that 's a non antagonistic . Crowd down their anyway . I you know it sounded like guys pretty content would query as to what he 's doing talked about I loved what he said about Brandon cooks . You know he 's very excited about operating coax him . Severe great person or at least you know what Brady was saying as well as a great player als have gone back to how long he he said he 's gon na play what they jumped out to me is . He says he 's never even thought about not playing football and that 's never even crossed his mind . And that does n't sound like a guy that . If we Vatican you know I do n't 98 and all I 'm out the door air edit any got taken at his word that 's all we can really do but how many callers that we had that said this is going to be his last year Acropolis here because Brady 's got a sort of wink wink he does n't want the farewell to war but he knows it 's his last year . Again if you 're taking what what you hear from home . For someone to say he 's never even considered not playing football at bout those inventors head and any I 'll use off also very . Roll . What love and loved ones like you mentioned they eat that right where I mentioned a lot about his wife his his sisters his parents and everybody how important it is how you ca n't play eighteen years in the league . Without that kind of support system which is still very elements there form . So it certainly sounds . Like he plan some playing for the foreseeable future and I was only half joking earlier license somewhere in the background Jimmy problem as well oh . Immediately he spoke after two grapples spoke not nearly as law got on the idea he was out of the was supposed to but he spoke to . Members of the media for . Only a few minutes nothing really . Special their ass we just talked to Tom I mean it went pretty I guess he had a bad day camps those a lot of do you get frustrated and completions and easily yes . I do nobody yet there they really well to lose . As we are that you talk right now diverted and we know that . Jimmie and Jacoby gave Tom birthday cake yesterday in the Jacoby at written on it instead of an age . Had written on old old . Yeah sounds about right reasons almost twice the age of your own persona so what did they ever could say easel generally respect and . Well you 've heard all the things that Brady had to say today what 's ethical place you 've heard all the stuff that he had to say today if you 'd like an opportunity to react 6177797937 . Is telephone number . I also want to remind you one more time in support of the sixteenth annual . WE and S and Jimmy Fund radio telethon which goes on August 15 and sixteenth at Fenway Park . I 'm Roger Clemens is auctioning off the opportunity to hit live batting practice off PM at Fenway . On all the proceeds will be split between the Jimmy Fund in the Roger Clemens foundation the winning bidder will of course come along him or herself along with nine of their closest friends to experience this once a lifetime opportunity . Now the date has to be mutually agreed upon between the winner Roger and the Red Sox obviously Tennessee when the field is available . The prize includes an hour batting practice with Roger . On the Fenway Park field I 've talked to him about this he takes this very seriously that 's all I mean he trains before hand gets ready to go out and throw BP . Obviously . He Taylor 's things sport and of the individual taking batting I could still mean that what I wanted to experience out we 've had to have you thought it at federal help you say do n't pay let 's see which got big white . Hailed his friend that he inherited a terrible that I put on the the entire group we 'll also have lunch at the park you get behind the scenes VIP tour . Every participant lowlands will receive a personalized autographed item from Roger . We 've got a bit line only for this starting bid is 5000 dollars . Other bit line is 877. 738. 1234 . That 's 8777381234 . And again all proceeds . Benefit the Jimmy Fund . And the Roger Clemens foundation a very unique auction item this has been one of our most popular things . The last few years Roger has done this a few years and grown now . The people who 've been involved with a have lobbed it . He gets all cranked up about doing it flies appeared . Throws also seized by you if it gets played the best way to invest abroad but rather it is is that you let 's get back to the calls that you guys 6177797937 . It 's dale and Holley with Keith . He ferment that 's coming up just few minutes Sports Radio W media you know we just heard from Tom Brady who is forty years old . You know moaning it was 1617 season whatever it is . And you think about situation Miami Ryan Tammy hill . I 'd down according to our Mundo south Carol the Miami Herald the dolphins have already reached out to Jay Cutler . To see if he 's interest in coming in out there . That he retire . Or he 'd do other than you had our final papers right right right he was like use pretty content with being done . Unbelievable they keep on the announcements Dixie is Bob the Internet photo I do n't know that we need to know about the bomb but I decided that you want all the details I feel like everybody should now but he went out thinking about when when it comes to Tom Brady is he can take the ball every Sunday . You know he missed a a season . When he got his knee blown out . And any missed four games because of the . Mrs. well last year was that it really summed it up wort three quarterbacks played for the patriots . And to a longer hurt . It 's cooler to guys in their twenties . Got hurt and they were only asked of one was asked to play four games you can play game and a half . The other to his credit . Played through an injury threw his two games he was n't gon na play that third game who goes because it anyway the need to get surgery there after so . That kind of sums up where Brady is you know there 's a handful quarterbacks . In the league that it 's pretty remarkable . How they just do n't get hurt how durable they were entailed was one of those guys actually when he started he gait week wan na as a rookie in played in sixteen games . Every single year until last year when he got hurt in his thirteenth game that he was out for the season . It was scary for Miami uses the knee injury is the same need they said while you 're recommending surgery now and then he hurts it in me . It does get hit non contact we 've seen the other video of them though the phone video whatever oh million times and now they might be looking to get another quarterback . So that . Released its Bruce Pritchard . But . Trying to buy time trial does like oh look at other random sound Drago I put that owners try to find is that better . At her I 'd Jay Cutler and while do you think Jay Cutler is better than Colin Capp to think that 's what that 's a PS I certainly a site . It 's but I actually Carol I just want people again if you wan na make the argument that cap predict is better than your gon na have your B. Yeah then you 're gon na say seeing . A sign this Humpty . That the that there 's any one more . And cap predict better and I do n't think he has I think Cutler Cutler was hurt last year only played five games bought . So just last year he was n't as good as its cap permit by the overall height I think he has . Now he 's he 's certainly not great he is used with widget with flaws there 's no doubt . But they 're bringing him in and I also wonder are they still think Matt Moore will be the stars there about the Jay Cutler would . Join up of them if you want to starter and part of the problem is that apparently Cutler once starter money . If he goes to Miami wants to paint like starter and and I 'm sure what they 're saying is . Match workers are here yeah right right exactly but if they do sign somebody like that . Note all that leads you able to believe that details on that year . Wiles and break a Matt Moore would be the guy two or three weeks you could play . The 2000 visit down under was it into the rarefied world will make do not ideal that we could . But if not they sign somebody else than nuts than us that our lets you back to the calls Connors in Connecticut and Connor I do n't . You know let 's let . I want to go as a pretty girl was mentioned your quote . Had been very much yet grow that would equate it I know I do n't think they 'll some people god I do n't . Yeah . I think brazen play . He 's he means what he said port five warriors . I do n't I do n't make plans and on any . I feel it . I sure do I agree are now obviously they feel the need to have that insurance for this year and then it . They 're great mystery of all of it had slowed toddler so long as we really do n't know what their plans are for growth and we also do n't know what they were offered . I mean we think yeah that 's due in there 's all this nudge nudge wink wink it 's not like the browns have two months ago that we offered 21 round picks I do n't know what . But their hold not I do n't know but even if they were offered nothing we do n't know what their minds that will be next year like are they thinking . Where I try to bring backdrop blow today envision a scenario or drop was the starting quarterback for the patriots . They may not they may just look at marries into the back this year and we 'll try to trade winds Hewitt who got formed . I mean I do n't you ca n't take every single player and coach . Always at their word there 's always reasons why they might have to hide the truth or whatever else but Brady has been so consistent . And with everybody has talked to about playing four or five more years and he 's giving you things like I got the answers to the test . Or I 've never even thought about not playing or alt . All play out he 's faster now that it was before . Everything that you said these believe OK this guy this is not going to be his last year in fact next year 's not going to be his last year . I Johnson and over Rajon NATO . This guy says so so very relevant call . Thought I had that gut feeling in coming you do n't agree . It 's it 's . Community because you know in order organization for Capote in order organization right . Our culture always been that way . And so I think all over patent comedy gold often go out there and . Now . Old John . Listened Mel 's that you into a tunnel . These gatherings submarine kind of shocked by aliens who knows because those are yes . Sir . Yes I do okay all right that let 's get off at all this headed such a toenails there were out of it 's in the it 's about never vessels within a week leave them alone . I kind of a big thank you your deal I was charcoal we owe them and Moody 's have to thank me and I 'm not you dale asking permission to speak sorry never . They you do charcoal Guido the moody street in Waltham specializes in authentic handmade thin crust Neapolitan style pizza . They came by the studio today . They had like two pizzas per person than a bunch of these . Resort role mozzarella cheese balls which were unbelievable . And charcoal windows uses that little black screen that I thought about the pizza savor it all their take out and delivery boxes across is dry in Chris . Just like he came out of the oven even after delivery . You heard from me the last several weeks telling how amazing this product is so next time you 're delivered pizza shows up wet and soggy . Pick up the phone call the pizzeria tell them to start using the pizza savor their customers deserve the best quality pizza delivered to their to war . Tell them to visit making food 's better dot com slash radio . Final drive keeper madness coming up next Sports Radio WEEI. 
@@19869763 <p> How much damage did Israel do to itself by engaging with the terrorist thugs of Hamas in the 2011 Gilad Shalit transaction ? <p> Advertisement <p> Whatever the answer , the toll is not static . It continues to grow and it includes innocent people murdered by terrorists who had murdered before they were released in the Shalit Deal and then murdered again once they were freed . <p> As we have said and written on numerous occasions since the catastrophic transaction was put together , we will regret the Shalit Deal for generations . <p> a complex Hamas money laundering operation that brought nearly three quarters of a million shekels into the terrorist group 's coffers ... Through this plot , which began in early 2016 , the group managed to transfer approximately $200,000 ( NIS 720,000 ) into its Hebron offices from Turkey , with help from Gaza , in order to fund terrorist activities ... In light of Israeli sanctions on the group , Hamas can not freely move money in and out of the country . <p> Five members of Hamas , all of them residing in Judea and Samaria in areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority , have been arrested . Two other suspects living in Turkey and the Gaza Strip are wanted but still , as far as we know , free . <p> The names we know include two men whose ability to engage in the funding of jihadist terror was handed to them as a gift when they were freed by Israel in that notorious 2011 deal with Hamas . <p> The head of the operation is said to be Muhammad Maher Bader . Described as " a senior member of Hamas in Hebron " , he is also " a member of the Palestinian parliament " which has not sat for many years . He has been in Israeli custody since June . <p> Muasseb Hashalmon , also of Hebron , is under arrest and described as a money courier who brought cash to Hamas from Turkey . <p> The same for Taha Uthman , also of Hebron . <p> Another resident of Hebron named as Umar Qimri worked with a Hamas agent based in Gaza to conjure up the deals that were meant to disguise the cash transfers . <p> Yet another resident of Hebron , Yusri Hashalmon , did the same . <p> The Hamas agent in Gaza is named by Times of Israel as Majd Jaaba who is also originally from Hebron . He has been a Gazan resident since being released to there in the Shalit Deal . <p> Times of Israel says the Hamas agent at the Turkish end of this scheme is Haron Nasser al-Din , who is also originally from Hebron and like Jaaba got out of prison in the Shalit Deal . <p> Few in the news media , even in Israel , have closely followed or reported on what the murdering terrorists let loose in the Shalit Deal have done since October 2011 . That 's why there are unlikely to be reports on who these Shalit winners are and what got them into prison in the first place . <p> The man called Majd Jaaba is , we believe , prisoner number 996825550 . In the Shalit papers , his name is given as Majid Muhammad Yunes al-Jaaba . Born in Hebron in 1970 , he had been arrested on April 16 , 1995 and charged with multiple offences including intentional homicide . He was found guilty and sentenced to two terms of life imprisonment . As it turned out , he served nothing like that sentence and was released after a mere sixteen years . Now he 's back to doing more terror directed at innocent Israelis . To clarify , he was not arrested -- he 's living free under the Gazan Hamas regime . <p> The Hamas terrorist holding down the Turkish end of the complex trail is identified in the Shalit papers as Harun Mansur Ya'aqub Nasser al-Din , prisoner number 904273463 . He too was born in 1970 and lived in Hebron . On December 15 , 1992 , he was convicted in an Israeli court of murder , possession of explosives and other related offences and sentenced to life imprisonment . He walked free after less than 19 years , and like his colleague al-Jaaba , is back to his passion for terrorism directed at Israelis . Like al-Jaaba , he is free as a bird , living in Turkey . <p> Why do n't reports of the post-prison exploits of Shalit Deal terrorists tell you what those jihadists did to be in prison in the first place ? <p> By our calculations , based on publicly available documents and our own analysis , of the 1,027 Palestinian Arabs terrorists let loose in the Shalit Deal , 520 -- meaning more than half -- were in prison for murder , other forms of homicide or attempted homicide . <p> Frimet and Arnold Roth began writing and speaking publicly soon after the murder of their fifteen year-old daughter Malki Z " L in the Jerusalem Sbarro massacre , August 9 , 2001 ( Chaf Av , 5761 ) . They have both been , and are , frequently interviewed for radio , television and the print media , including CNN , BBC , New York Times , Washington Post , Al-Jazeera , and others . Their blog This Ongoing War deals with the under-appreciated price of living in a society afflicted by terrorism which , they contend , means the entire world . Frimet is a native of Queens , NY while her husband was born and raised in Melbourne , Australia . They brought their family to settle in Jerusalem in 1988 . They co-founded the Malki Foundation in 2001 and are deeply involved in its work as volunteers . They can be reached at **25;240;TOOLONG . 
@@19871344 <h> The End of This Road : The Decline of the Palestinian National Movement <p> As their institutions wither and their leaders fade away , young Palestinians will redefine previous generations ' aspirations and agenda . <p> Photograph by Simona Ghizzoni / Contrasto / Redux <p> Hussein Agha and Ahmad Samih Khalidi have been involved in Palestinian peace negotiations for three decades , and are senior associate members of St. Antony 's College , Oxford , and co-authors of " A Framework for a Palestinian National Security Doctrine . " Agha most recently carried out backchannel negotiations during the Obama Administration 's failed effort to broker an Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement . <p> As President Trump prepares for yet another attempt to resolve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict , the ground is shifting under his feet . While Israel 's willingness to offer an acceptable deal is increasingly open to question , with nothing to suggest that its terms are likely to soften with time , the Palestinians are sliding toward the unknown . With the slow but sure decay of the Palestinian political scene , the President of the Palestinian Authority , Mahmoud Abbas ( Abu Mazen ) , represents the last slender chance for a negotiated settlement : he is the sole remaining national leader of his people with sufficient , if dwindling , authority to sign and ratify a deal . For President Trump and his team , as well as for all those seeking to end this century-plus-old conflict , there should be no doubt about the moment 's urgency . After Abbas , there will be no other truly weighty representative and legitimate Palestinian leadership , and no coherent national movement to sustain it for a long time to come . <p> Over six days in late November and early December , 2016 , Fatah , the Palestinian national liberation movement , convened its seventh congress in Ramallah , the de-facto capital of the Palestinian Authority . Despite the lengthy speeches and festive air , the conference did little to dispel what had become unmistakable : the slow expiry of a once vibrant movement . Long on show and short on substance , the meeting hardly touched on any of the mounting political challenges facing the Palestinian people . The Congress was no more than a confirmation of the current order and a reaffirmation of its total and unprecedented control over Fatah , the P.A. , and its ostensible parent , the Palestine Liberation Organization . <p> The contemporary Palestinian national movement -- founded and led by Yasser Arafat and embodied by the P.A. , Fatah , and the P.L.O . over the past half century -- is reaching its end . As its institutions wither and its leaders fade away , there is no obvious successor to take its place . <p> Looking back , the 1993 Oslo Accords marked the Palestinian national movement 's highest political accomplishment and the beginning of its slow decline . From then onward , the P.A. has been trapped between its original revolutionary mission as an agent for liberation and its new responsibilities as a proto-state , with its attendant civil , bureaucratic , and security establishments . <p> For a while , with its historic resistance leader at the helm , the national movement sought to reconcile its contradictory missions . But , with Arafat 's death , Fatah lost not only the forefather and leader of its foundational militant phase but its very raison d ' ? tre . Without " armed struggle , " the national movement had no clear ideology , no specific discourse , no distinctive experience or character . In the absence of a genuine and independent state , it was unable to transform itself into a ruling party , as , for example , the African National Congress did , in South Africa . It remained incomplete and suspended : a liberation movement not doing much liberating , locked in a fruitless negotiating process , and denied the means of government by a combination of Israeli obduracy and its own inadequacies . <p> With the passing of Arafat and most of his colleagues , Fatah 's ability to hold its fractured parts together waned . The social and political milieu of the West Bank and Gaza -- steeped in clannish and personal influences -- highlighted local fiefdoms and deep-rooted tensions . Severed from its history in the lands of exile , and without a rationale to supersede its original liberationist impulse , Fatah became mired in narrow and parochial turf wars . This was , in turn , compounded by its leaders ' failure to attract new blood . Unlike the experience of exile that formed a unifying Palestinian bond , that of the territories never managed to produce viable leaders who could forge a truly national enterprise out of highly localized components . The powerful pull of local ties made it almost impossible for a Hebronite to have a genuine popular base in Ramallah , or for a Gazan to have a credible say in the West Bank . <p> With no new leaders , no convincing evidence of validation , no marked success in government , no progress toward peace , fragile links to its original setting abroad , and a local environment buffeted by the crosswinds of petty quarrels and regional antagonisms , Fatah fundamentally disappeared as a real political agent . <p> The national movement was built on representation , activism , and achievement . It faithfully and energetically represented the broadest spectrum of Palestinian national sentiment , from the most visceral to the most rational , and it re-created the forgotten Palestinians as central players in their own drama and as a cause worthy of recognition across the world -- epitomized by Arafat 's address to the U.N . General Assembly in 1974 . <p> Today , none of these elements of success are evident . The all-encompassing P.L.O . has lost its representative status ; the aging factions that still sit in its councils have little , if any , extensions inside or outside Palestine . The spirit of activism and dynamism has moved outside P.L.O . structures and onto the streets with no clear organization or political direction . And the P.A./P.L.O. ' s achievements have been largely formalistic if not fake -- a more advanced status as " observer state " at the U.N. , but with no tangible improvement to the situation on the ground . <p> Arafat 's management was an integral element of the dynamism of the Palestinian national movement , and the transition from Arafat to Abbas passed smoothly because it was recognized as a continuation of the founding days of the national movement . Abbas may have needed formal elections to consolidate his position and gain acceptance in the international community , but , without his previous revolutionary credentials and association with Arafat , Abbas 's legitimacy would have been questioned from the start . <p> Abbas did not want , and could never occupy , Arafat 's place . His standing with his own people was deeply damaged by his persistent and infertile engagement with the peace process , his unwavering opposition to forceful struggle , and his fulsome dedication to security co ? peration with Israel . As his tenure extended beyond his initial electoral mandate , the Palestinian political system developed many of the characteristics of a one-man Presidential regime , but without the ? lan of a popular leader . Later years witnessed a growing tendency toward unmitigated centralization , rule by decree , and the concentration of power . Other instruments of government were muted , and a determined effort was made to control what remains of Fatah 's decaying structures and to silence genuine political dissent . What used to be a vibrant if fractious political debate , nourished , tolerated , and often exploited by the leadership , has turned into a dull and dismal discourse , steered by political directives , and driven by fear of suppression and the loss of position inside an ever-swelling bureaucracy . A distinction between " President " and " leader " has emerged , and not necessarily in a manner that serves either . <p> Abbas 's years as President have not been without their share of achievements . His peace policy provided the P.A. with a formidable firewall against the kind of international pressure associated with the Palestinian national movement 's past violence , and added to a growing sense of unease at Israel 's occupation . For some , this by itself is a major national achievement . The P.A. has been sustained as a would-be state , and , since 1994 , many of the day-to-day governing affairs of municipal , health , education , and other functions have been in Palestinian hands for the first time . <p> Abbas 's dedication to negotiations , diplomacy , and non-violence has shifted the burden onto the other side . While the current Israeli leadership 's peace credentials are widely disputed , Abbas 's international image as a man of peace remains largely intact . At the same time , he has managed to hold on to the historical and fundamental Palestinian demands ; he has not wavered from the P.L.O . ' s goals for a state along the 1967 borders , with its capital in East Jerusalem , and a just resolution to the refugee problem . He put an end to the chaos of the second intifada . He has continued engaging with a broad range of Israeli opinions , and has assiduously sought to cultivate what remains of the Israeli peace camp and to engage with Jewish leaders and communities abroad . Perhaps most important , he has succeeded in insulating the Palestinian people from much of the violence and destruction of the " Arab Spring " and from the growth of Salafi and jihadist movements in the West Bank . <p> All in all , Abbas 's era has enhanced the Palestinians ' moral standing and lent traction to their cause and narrative . But these achievements are in danger of being overshadowed by new circumstances and challenges . Abbas may have helped to underpin the legitimacy of the Palestinian cause , particularly in the West , but his approach has failed to demonstrate sufficient payoff in peace negotiations , changing the unacceptable status quo , or in attracting popular support to revive the movement 's declining fortunes . The thirteen years of his rule have produced no significant change in Israel 's stance ; in fact , Israel 's terms for a final-status resolution on such issues as Jerusalem , security , and the extent of Palestinian sovereignty have notably hardened . <p> Furthermore , the Palestinians ' readiness to take the negotiating path to its logical conclusions was restrained by a perception that they were winning the moral and psychological high ground . The paradoxical effect was to make it harder to progress toward an agreement with Israel because it seemed that other influential parties might do the job . <p> The past decade has also witnessed a series of seemingly inconsistent and not well thought-out Palestinian diplomatic moves , including the welcoming of , and then backtracking on , the Goldstone Report , in 2011 ; on the 2008 Gaza war ; the unconvincing threats by senior Palestinian officials to dismantle the P.A. ; the overselling of the bid to create international facts by joining various U.N . bodies ; the pursuit of desperate and futile initiatives such as the proposals , in 2016 , by the former French President Fran ? ois Hollande for an international conference ; and the failure to make diplomatic progress even in the shadow of a relatively friendly U.S. Administration . As a result , the entire notion of peace negotiations has been discredited and consigned to outright condemnation , deep disbelief , and profound apathy among Palestinians , further weakening the national movement 's political credibility and standing . <p> The growing public criticism of security co ? peration might best encapsulate the P.A. 's dilemma . Security co ? peration is meant to serve the national interest by preventing armed activities that threaten to elicit a disproportionate Israeli response . Yet co ? peration ends up serving Israel by sustaining the occupation 's low cost and helping to perpetuate it . The primary function of any authority is to provide security to the people it represents . P.A. security forces can do very little to defend their own people both in the territories and abroad , where at least half of the estimated total of twelve million Palestinians reside , in the face of third-party threats , individual Israeli assaults , settler violence , or the organized actions of the Israel Defense Forces . Palestinians are consequently left vulnerable to overwhelming Israeli power and the hardening fist of their own security forces at the same time . Insofar as security co ? peration is seen as an auxiliary function to the occupation , it has added to a sense of helplessness and loss of agency and has focussed popular anger and frustration away from the struggle for freedom and independence . Whether the Palestinians would be better served in raw contact with the occupation without the mediating influence of the P.A. is open to question , but the cumulative corrosive impact of the P.A. 's role as shield and security subcontractor to the occupation is undeniable -- especially with no accompanying political returns . <p> The Palestinian loss of faith in a negotiated settlement reflects a loss of faith in the agencies that have sought to pursue it . To the extent that Fatah , the P.A. , and the P.L.O . have been dedicated to a two-state solution , their failures -- from liberation to governance to peacemaking -- have lessened public support for the desirability or viability of the goal itself . Besides the bloated P.A. bureaucracy , almost all sectors of the Palestinian people have been alienated from the methods and practices of their representative bodies , and have largely lost any real sense of investment in their diplomacy . What was once seen as a national unifying program is now viewed with deep skepticism and indifference . <p> Of course , not all change has come from within . There is no doubt that the regional and international environment has shifted in unfavorable ways . A " Third World " moment -- in which the Palestinian national struggle found a natural home within the liberationist and anti-colonial movements of Algeria and Vietnam , and was embraced by emerging Asian powers as part of their new sense of independence -- no longer exists . The recent era has seen a move in the opposite direction ; there may be greater understanding for the Palestinian cause in the West , but many of the Palestinians ' former Third World allies have chosen economic self-interest in place of ideological commitment . India 's wavering support for the Palestinians at the U.N . and China 's growing trade and military ties with Israel are examples . <p> The Arab environment has also clearly changed . Fatah was originally as much an assertion of Palestinian " independence of will " in the face of Arab hegemony as it was a revolt against Israel 's plunder of the homeland . Despite many political conflicts and bloody confrontations with numerous Arab states such as Jordan , Syria , and Lebanon , the P.L.O . continued to draw political and financial support from its hinterland , from the Gulf States , and from a popular base that was deeply sympathetic to the Palestinian struggle . Fatah and the P.L.O . may have been largely dependent on Arab aid , but the multiplicity of sources and the constant rivalries among the Arabs themselves accorded the movement a wide margin of freedom . If one source of funding and support was severed , another was more than likely to appear . And , despite a high degree of financial dependency , the movement maintained political freedom of action : the P.L.O . ' s dramatic support for a two-state solution in 1988 and the 1993 Oslo Accords were " independent " Palestinian decisions made without wider Arab consent , regardless of their wisdom at the time or since . <p> In the regional turmoil and violence of recent years , the Palestinians largely lost the skill of maneuvering among the Arab parties and their conflicting interests , and have become more dependent on other external support . As Arab financial aid shrinks , a new bloc of Arab states , comprising Egypt , Jordan , Saudi Arabia , and the United Arab Emirates , has a growing hold over the Arabs ' say on Palestine , further narrowing P.L.O . independence . Equally , the P.A. has become more and more reliant on the flow of funds from the U.S. and the European Union , and on Israel 's good will in dealing with the daily needs of the Palestinian population in the territories . Once a useful tool for maximizing freedom of action , multiple sources of outside support are now a means of leverage to further constrain Palestinian decision-making . <p> The post-Abbas era will launch an uncharted and unpredictable course . The founding fathers ' historical legacy and imprint of legitimacy is disappearing . The Palestinian refugees and the broader community in exile have no real agency , means of expression , or instruments to reflect their will . Fatah 's ongoing conflict with Hamas , the unrest in Gaza and the West Bank , and the institutional failures of the P.A. all point to an increasingly narrow and more tenuous form of leadership , one that is based more on formal elections , and , consequently and paradoxically , on less solid and genuinely representative grounds . <p> A leader elected on and by the West Bank , without continuity with the fading national movement , may not be openly rejected by the fractured components of the Palestinian people , but will , in the best of circumstances , have only limited national appeal and authority . Unlike a leader chosen by widespread acclaim , a narrowly elected leader , or one selected as a compromise among the different factions , can not claim to represent those who lie outside his or her constituency , or to speak on their behalf . It is doubtful that such a leader will be able to rely on majority support or rally it , if and when decisions of national import are at stake . Abbas 's power derives from the fact that those who may otherwise criticize or reject a deal will abide by his terms . His signature not only imparts legitimacy to an agreement but absolves opponents from any responsibility for the concessions it may entail . Despite his limitations , Abbas may be the last Palestinian leader with the moral authority and political legitimacy to speak and act on behalf of the entire nation on vital existential issues such as a final agreement with Israel . <p> If the incoming Palestinian leadership is likely to be less representative than its predecessors , the degree to which it has a mandate to conclude and sustain a future agreement with Israel may be open to question . This will necessarily affect Israel 's own willingness to agree to a deal -- already evident in Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's repeated insistence that Israel will " never " cede security control over the West Bank . It will also affect the role and posture of third parties , such as the U.S. , in facilitating or pushing for a deal , and its possible content will be less likely to approximate Palestinian terms for a settlement . The recent spate of well-attended popular meetings hosted by Turkey , Egypt , Iran , and even France and Holland may inaugurate a new phase in which the P.L.O . faces growing pressure to defend its credentials as the " sole and legitimate representative " of the Palestinian people , with further limitations on its margin of maneuvers at home and abroad . <p> Twenty-four years after Oslo , the security establishment is perhaps the most enduring and powerful institution spawned by the P.A. Nourished and fortified by Israel , the U.S. , and major European and Arab parties as part of the post-second-intifada reform process and designed to control violence and internal dissent , P.A. security forces have become the most efficient , visible , and functional arm of Palestinian governance . In the absence of countervailing legal and political institutions , organized popular movements , or capable representative bodies , there will be a strong temptation for the security forces to fill the vacuum of a frail national leadership , if only to avoid a comprehensive institutional collapse . <p> Even as Fatah has fallen apart , its popular base has remained in suspension instead of being pulled or driven toward other alternatives . More nationalist than Islamist in their political inclinations and outlook , the Palestinians have not been significantly drawn to Hamas . Hamas 's initial challenge emerged from its adoption of armed struggle at the moment when Fatah and the other factions had begun to discard it . But Hamas 's militant experiment has been no more successful than Fatah 's . Gaza 's history of resistance may have helped to convince Israel to evacuate the Strip , in 2005 , but the subsequent suffering has not served as a model or source of inspiration for the rest of the Palestinians . Similarly , Hamas 's decade-long governance of Gaza has been marred by the same charges of corruption , incompetence , and heavy-handedness as its P.A. counterpart in Ramallah , but with the additional burdens of broad isolation and constant Israeli siege . On matters of armed struggle , diplomacy , and governance , those looking to Hamas as a replacement for Fatah would find it difficult to argue that the former has delivered where the latter has failed . <p> In its previous incarnation , Fatah succeeded in accommodating those of an Islamist bent by dissipating their influence within a wider national rubric . By incorporating a strong leftist current , it counteracted and neutralized Islamist tendencies . As Fatah took command of the P.L.O. , it left a space for others to speak , act , and be heard . At present , a P.L.O . that included both Hamas and Fatah would be neither truly national nor genuinely Islamist but a forced arrangement between contradictory and competing forces pulling in different strategic directions . Besides the vexed question of leadership , it would be hard to sustain such a mixed and conflicted entity . <p> If the national movement 's initial phase arose from exile , and the second was focussed on the territories occupied in the Six-Day War , a budding third phase seems to be emerging from the combined effect of the diminishing prospects for a negotiated two-state settlement , and the increasingly blurred borders between Arabs and Jews in the territory . Israeli settlements may have all but erased the 1967 borders in one direction , but fifty years of occupation have helped to erase the border in the opposite direction as well . After decades of fraught relations between the Palestinians and Israel 's Palestinian citizens , the past few years have seen growing interaction between the political and intellectual ? lites across the borders . <p> The broader Palestinian public has slowly begun to recognize the national role and place of its brethren in Israel , and to seek means by which the tattered fabric of Palestinian identity may be mended . With the expiration of the national movement " outside " the West Bank and Gaza and with little prospect of self-regeneration from " inside , " Israel 's Palestinian citizens have inherited a new share of the struggle . They have proved to be politically resilient and flexible and have demonstrated a vitality and dynamism that may even point to something of a nationalist revival . In light of the sensitive conditions under which they operate , their comparatively small critical mass , their continuing isolation , and their tenuous connections with the other sectors of the Palestinian people , it may be too fanciful to believe that they could supplant the old national movement or assume its broader mantle or its more immediate functions . Yet , despite their personal and political differences , their bold leaders and their growing understanding of Israel 's democratic portico may position them to articulate with increasing confidence the traditional themes of Palestinian national aspirations and struggle . This would be a remarkable transformation . <p> Israeli right-wing politicians have often argued that the roots of the current conflict far predate 1967 . The assertion that the origins of the conflict stretch back considerably further is not controversial or contestable . Oslo sought to trade 1967 against 1948 -- that is , to obscure the historical roots of the conflict in return for a political settlement that offered a partial redress that focussed solely on post-1967 realities . Current circumstances have begun to undo this suppression . Oslo could not bypass history , and its limitations have only highlighted the difficulty of ignoring the deeper roots of the struggle over Palestine . <p> This has become manifest in Israel 's gradual shift rightward , as well as in the growing encroachment of the national religious movement upon the levers of power and public discourse , the increasing influence and militancy of settler and fringe movements , and the sharpening tensions between the Jewish and Arab populations as marked by the rhetoric of both leaderships . <p> A similar process is tangible on the Palestinian side , in the growing backing for the right of return , and in moves to document and memorialize the nakba and the 1948 dispossession . The Israeli demand for recognition of Israel as a Jewish state has solicited countermoves to reassert the Arab character of the land and reinforce the Palestinian historical narrative . Regardless of its distant and scattered parts , the experience of exile has not faded away . The Palestinians in exile may no longer have as confident and recognized a voice as that of the P.L.O . in its heyday , but the younger generation has shown no signs of historical amnesia or disengagement . The growing despair at the ineffectiveness of the peace process has reanimated their disparate parts and captured their imagination . While the near diaspora may be under siege and unprecedented pressure , particularly in Syria and Lebanon , many groups strewn across farther shores call for justice . The growing visibility and international sympathy for the Palestinian cause , and the slow erosion of Israel 's political and moral standing , particularly in the West , have created a new , more open and welcoming environment for Palestinian activism , as apparent from the spreading support for the Boycott , Divestment , and Sanctions ( B.D.S. ) movement and various activist groups off and on campus . <p> The historic Palestinian national movement may have shattered and its successor may be neither discernible nor imminent . But the Palestinians will not simply disappear . The region may be engulfed in flames , and for the moment , at least , seemingly otherwise engaged , but Palestinian claims to justice and freedom have embedded themselves in the conscience of much of the world , just as Israel 's practices have eaten away at its avowed values . <p> The idea of one overarching , comprehensive , negotiated resolution that incorporates all the fundamental elements of the conflict may have slipped out of reach . What used to be called " the Palestine problem " might now be better redefined and restructured as a series of challenges , each requiring its own form of redress : the disappearing prospects for the original national project of self-determination , statehood , and return ; the peoples ' alienation from their formal representatives ; the realities of the Gaza -- West Bank split ; the continuing trials and tribulations of the diaspora ; and the daily struggle for freedom from occupation and equal rights in Israel . <p> The future remains deeply uncertain . The two-state solution may win some belated and final reprieve as its prospects dwindle . Palestinian national aspirations may be brought back into the wider Arab fold , as they were before the current movement was established . Yet other possibilities abound . The Palestinians in Israel may be tempted to take the lead . The diaspora may yet explode in some radical and ill-defined manner . The malign energies of jihadism may be redirected toward a Muslim ? -Jewish religious war , with Jerusalem as its focus . The conflict may be dragged back to its historical origins as a struggle over and across the entire Holy Land , reopening old wounds , inflicting new ones , and redefining how and if the conflict will be resolved . <p> The spark of patriotism may still coexist along with loathing of the occupation and a desire for a free and normal life . But a national movement requires genuine mass engagement in a political vision and a working project that cuts across boundaries of region , clan , and class , and a defined and acknowledged leadership with the legitimacy and representative standing that empowers it to act in its people 's name . This no longer holds for Fatah , the P.A. , or the P.L.O . <p> Be that as it may , the Palestinians may need to acknowledge that yesteryear 's conventional nationalism and " national liberation " are no longer the best currency for political mobilization and expression in today 's world , and that they need to adapt their struggle and aspirations to new global realities . The bonds that link the Palestinian people together remain strong and hardy , but old-style nationalism and its worn-out ways may no longer be the vehicle for their empowerment . Because nationalism itself has changed , Palestinians need to search for new means of expressing their political identity and hopes in ways that do not and can not replicate the past . 
@@19875509 <h> Why One Jewish Group Protested a Rock and Roll Icon <p> Pink Floyd 's Roger Waters has been open about his negative views on Israel . <p> The 73-year-old played play two concerts with his famous rock and roll band this past weekend in Washington D.C. <p> Before the concerts , one Jewish group decided to call Waters out on his stance . <p> The Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Washington created a video to address Waters ' hostility toward Israel . <p> " This is a sort of welcoming party for Waters , " said the group 's executive director Ron Halber , referencing the video in an interview with the Washington Post . " We want him to know when he arrives in D.C. that the sort of hateful language that he 's peddling and the myths he engages in are going to be met with fierce resistance . " <p> They point to his anti-Israel language and support of the " boycott , divestment and sanctions " movement or BDS . It 's a Pro-Palestinian effort against Israel . <p> Halber also mentioned there have been inflatable pigs with Jewish stars painted on them at Rogers ' concerts according to a 2013 report by the Jerusalem Post . <p> In June , Waters wrote an open letter to Thom Yorke of the band Radiohead . Waters was upset they were playing in Israel . <p> " Today is the 50th anniversary of the occupation of Palestine by Israel , " he wrote . " 50 years of living under military occupation , 50 years for a people with no civil rights , 50 years of apartheid , " he said .. <p> The Jewish Council 's video also pointed out Waters went as far as to compare modern day Israel to Hitler 's Nazi controlled Germany . <p> In a 2011 op-ed for the Guardian , Waters said people in Gaza were " locked in a virtual prison behind the wall of Israel 's illegal blockade . " <p> In it , he also referred to Palestinians living in Gaza and the West Bank as , " besieged , " and the Israeli control of the region as , " abhorrent and draconian . " <p> " He 's an embarrassment , " Halber said of Waters . " I advise him to stick to music and stop talking about things he knows nothing about . " 
@@19879143 <p> JERUSALEM -- Israel plans to shut down Al Jazeera 's Jerusalem office , stop transmitting its broadcasts and strip the Qatar-based channel 's journalists of their credentials , the country 's communications minister said Sunday . <p> Ayoub Kara accused the channel of " incitement " as he announced the plans for shuttering the station 's operations . <p> " Freedom of expression is not freedom to incite , " he said , according to a ministry statement . " Democracy has limits . " <p> Al Jazeera said it was unclear when the Israeli government would act on Kara 's request and the channel has said it will fight any attempt to close its office in the courts . A legal amendment will need to be made to adopt the measures , the ministry statement said , with the law updated to reflect the " current geopolitical reality . " <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tweeted his support for the move , having publicly vowed to close down the channel 's Jerusalem bureau last month . He has been attempting to rebuild his following among right-wing voters after agreeing to remove metal detectors at the al-Aqsa mosque compound in Jerusalem last month , which was seen by some Israelis as a capitulation to Palestinian worshippers after a two-week-long stand off . He also accused the channel of incitement ; however , his office declined to give specific examples of content it deemed to have stoked tensions . <p> The announcement also came just days after Netanyahu 's former chief of staff agreed to testify against him in relation to allegations of fraud and breach of trust , throwing his continued tenure into jeopardy . <p> Al Jazeera did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday , but has accused Israel of siding with four Arab states , including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates , that are imposing an economic blockade on Qatar and have severed diplomatic relations with the country . They accuse Qatar of backing terrorism and have demanded the shutdown of Qatari-funded Al Jazeera . <p> Saudi Arabia and Jordan have closed Al Jazeera offices in recent months , while the channel 's signal has been blocked in the United Arab Emirates . <p> " The collusion by Netanyahu with his Arab autocratic neighbors leaves little doubt that free independent media and truth are ready to be sacrificed as collateral damage in the power politics of the region , " Al Jazeera 's Jerusalem bureau chief , Walid Omary , wrote in an opinion piece in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz . " Since its inception , Al Jazeera has provided Israel with a rare conduit for airing its viewpoints to Arab and Muslim audiences and participating in dialogue with them . " <p> While it has never been banned from Israel , the channel has faced similar criticism in the past . During the 2014 conflict between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip , then foreign minister Avigdor Lieberman also called for the channel to be closed . <p> " Changing the law in order to shut down a media organization for political reasons is a slippery slope , " the executive secretary of Israel 's Foreign Press Association , Glenys Sugarman , told the news agency Reuters . <p> Loveday Morris is The Post 's Baghdad bureau chief . She joined The Post in 2013 as a Beirut-based correspondent . She has previously covered the Middle East for The National , based in Abu Dhabi , and for the Independent , based in London and Beirut . <p> Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments , as are comments by users with these badges : . Replies to those posts appear here , as well as posts by staff writers . <p> To pause and restart automatic updates , click " Live " or " Paused " . If paused , you 'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in . <p> Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top Comments , as are comments by users with these badges : . Replies to those posts appear here , as well as posts by staff writers . <p> Spam <p> Offensive <p> Disagree <p> Off-Topic <p> Among the criteria for featured comments : likes by users , replies by users , previous history of valuable commenting , and selection by moderators . <p> Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published by WP BrandStudio . The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the creation of this content . Learn more about WP BrandStudio. 
@@19904727 <h> A load of B.S. on BDS : Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand jumps off a good bill <h> Not helping <p> Amid rising political pressure based on lies , Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand has withdrawn her support for bipartisan legislation designed to defang the pernicious international movement to boycott , divest from and sanction Israel . <p> The BDS movement , as it 's known , seeks to turn Israel into a global pariah , offering the phony excuse of the disputed West Bank . Israel has been willing for a long time to hand over the vast majority of the territory along mutually negotiated borders to full Palestinian rule , as was done with Gaza . <p> But because Hamas and even a critical mass of supposedly moderate Fatah today cling to the hope that Israel can be eliminated , Israel 's presence there begrudgingly endures . <p> So offended are a coalition of anti-Israel organizations and nations by Israel 's dogged insistence on defending itself , they want to isolate it -- America 's staunchest regional ally , and the Mideast 's one true stable democracy -- economically and diplomatically . <p> The obscene vilification of this small country , the singling out of it and it alone for such treatment , can only be called anti-Semitic . <p> Still , anti-Semitism is permitted in America . Any individual or group or company can choose , based on their own beliefs , whether or not to buy from any particular nation . <p> Organize a pro-BDS protest ; take out a pro-BDS advertisement ; write a pro-BDS Op-Ed . <p> What is illegal , and has been 1977 , is when U.S. corporations essentially conduct their own foreign policy by participating in unauthorized international boycotts organized by foreign countries . <p> Meaning , if Arab governments , as part of an effort to compile a blacklist of those doing business with Israel , demand U.S. companies report their dealings there , the law would prohibit them from responding . With civil -- never criminal -- penalties attached . <p> The law , enforced by the federal Office of Antiboycott Compliance , has been reauthorized several times . It has withstood challenges in the courts . It is wholly constitutional . <p> The long-overdue tweak would simply clarify that it is not only the Arab League boycott of Israel that can trigger such penalties , but boycotts organized by the United Nations and other multinational groups . <p> Opponents , led by the ACLU , ridiculously claim that the legislation criminalizes free speech . This is false ; if it did , how would the BDS movement have thrived on college campuses and elsewhere with the 1977 law on the books ? Where are the arrested and imprisoned protesters ? <p> But the liars have made their mark -- and now Gillibrand , abandoning a good bill , effectively furthers their fallacious smear . That 's the behavior of a coward , which is surely not how New York 's junior senator wants to be known . 
@@19932811 <p> ESPN longformer Wright Thompson returned earlier this week with a 5,000-word tome of a profile on alleged boxer Conor McGregor called " Crossing Crumlin Road . " McGregor 's hometown of Dublin and home neighborhood of Crumlin are rendered in evocative detail , and Thompson paints a portrait of Crumlin as a grim , gang-infested shithole to be escaped from at all costs . It 's effectively drawn , but the problem , according to Dubliners , is that parts of it seem to be bullshit . <p> Here is perhaps Thompson 's most gritty paragraph : <p> Dublin is best understood by exploring its many divisions , its unending physical and mental boundaries . The city , and its current champion , McGregor , are defined by those limits . It 's a clannish , parochial place . Crossing the wrong street has traditionally been reason enough for an ass-whipping . Men have had to drop dates off at bus stops instead of walking them all the way home . About 60 boxing clubs still dot the city , training kids to defend themselves and their block , each gym a world unto itself . <p> Jennifer O'Connell of the Irish Times critiqued Thompson 's work yesterday , writing that , as a former Crumlin resident , her neighborhood was never anything like the " Gaza Strip or 1920s Chicago " image rendered by Thompson . She admitted that Dublin had crime and gangs like any major city , but laughed at his grim portrayal of a city that eats its young . As she said , anyone who drops their date off at a bus stop only does so " because they 're too tight to call up a Hailo . " Several other Irishmedia membershave also called outThompson and ESPN for what O'Connell called " prose as purple as a three-day-old bruise . " <p> O'Connell also poked fun at Thompson 's insistence that the Irish media ignored McGregor because of his humble roots . <p> If only that were true . A search of irishtimes.com for " Conor McGregor " returns 42 pages of results . Conor McGregor is such a fixture of the mainstream media that my colleague Brian O'Connor recently referred to him as " click-catnip " and " headline herpes " . <p> This sort of convenient forgetfulness is n't surprising -- fawning profiles with simplified narratives and malleable facts have a long and inglorious history in American journalism . Reporters rushed to make former Floyd Mayweather foe Manny Pacquiao into a saint and now , two years later , it 's their turn to sprinkle the same pixie dust on MacGregor . The opponent has changed , but the role the sports press plays remains , largely , the same . 
@@19985524 <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced Sunday that Meir Ben-Shabbat has been appointed as the incoming head of the National Security Council ( NSC ) . <p> Ben-Shabbat takes up his new duties on Tuesday , Netanyahu said , adding that outgoing director Eitan Ben-David is staying on at the prime minister 's request . <p> Advertisement <p> " Meir has rich experience in defending the security of Israel , in the Israel Security Agency ( ed. -- Shin Bet ) , including his recent post as head of the southern district , and he carried out all of his duties with distinction , " Netanyahu said in opening remarks at the weekly cabinet meeting . <p> Ben-Shabbat , 51 , is a married father of four who wears a kippah and self-identifies as a religious Zionist . He has spent the past three years as director of the ISA southern division , having been with the Shin Bet since 1989 . He joined the agency right after completing his mandatory IDF military service in the Givati Brigade . <p> The new NSC head also has an extensive higher education : he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from Bar-Ilan University ( cum laude ) and graduated a program for directors and senior officers of corporations at Tel Aviv University . In addition , he also completed a wide range of courses in intelligence and senior management . <p> In particular , Ben-Shabbat has special expertise in the Gaza-based Hamas terrorist organization , and has participated in countless operations against the group over the past 20 years . He has also headed the Cyber Division ; the National Anti-Terror Espionage , Research &amp; Policy Branch ; and the Southern Division . <p> " He is . . . familiar to members of the Security Cabinet who are already well acquainted with the clarity of his thinking . We welcome him , " Netanyahu said . <p> Ben-David " has done , and will continue to do , outstanding work . We commend him and thank him and we will , of course , continue to work together , " the prime minister added . <p> Bennett , a member of the Security Cabinet , praised Ben-Shabbat as someone with " deep and broad understanding of Israel 's national security . " He added , " It is vital that the National Security Council be a strong and vibrant body at the administrative and operative levels of our national security . It must also provide alternative opinions on diplomatic and security issues in order to prevent intellectual lassitude . " <p> Minister Tzachi HaNegbi , also a member of the Security Council , likewise expressed his support for the appointment , noting , " Filling the role is very important . I established the National Security Council Law as head of the Foreign Affairs and Defense committee after the Second Lebanon War . The law is designed to aid government decision-making on security and diplomatic issues . " <p> Yair Lapid , chairman of the Yesh Atid party currently in opposition , also said in a post on Facebook , " You have an important role in maintaining the security of the State of Israel . " <p> Hana Levi Julian is a Middle East news analyst with a degree in Mass Communication and Journalism from Southern Connecticut State University . A past columnist with The Jewish Press and senior editor at Arutz 7 , Ms. Julian has written for Babble.com , Chabad.org and other media outlets , in addition to her years working in broadcast journalism . 
@@19987211 <h> Netanyahu names new head of Israel 's National Security Council <h> A former Shin Bet senior official will head the National Security Council . <p> Meir Ben-Shabbat. ( photo credit:Courtesy ) <p> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday named Israel Security Agency ( Shin Bet ) senior official Meir Ben-Shabbat as the new head of the National Security Council , a position that had been filled only on an interim basis since Yossi Cohen left to take over the Mossad in January 2016 . <p> Ben-Shabbat , 51 , has served for 28 years in the Shin Bet , most recently as head of its southern division , which is responsible for the Gaza Strip . <p> In announcing the appointment at Sunday 's cabinet meeting , Netanyahu said Ben-Shabbat " has rich experience in defending the security of Israel , in the Israel Security Agency , including his recent post as head of the southern district , and he carried out all of his duties with distinction . He is also familiar to members of the security cabinet who are already well acquainted with the clarity of his thinking . We welcome him . " <p> In his nearly three decades in the Shin Bent , Ben-Shabbat has gained an expertise on the Gaza Strip and Hamas , and headed a number of different divisions , including cyber and the national anti-terrorism and anti-espionage divisions . <p> Bayit Yehudi head Naftali Bennett , who is a member of the security cabinet , welcomed the appointment , saying Ben-Shabbat brings years of security and defense experience in various capacities and a profound understanding of Israel 's national security . <p> " It is essential that the NSC be a strong organization , playing a central role in the oversight and management of our national security , " Bennett said . " It must also be a support system , to provide diverse diplomatic and security alternatives and to prevent a single-minded conception from taking over . " <p> Ben-Shabat will be the 10th head of the NSC since its formation in 1999 , and the first to come from the ranks of the Shin Bet . <p> Four of the previous heads came from the Mossad : Cohen , Ephraim Halevi , Ilan Mizrahi and Uzi Arad . Two others , Yaakov Amidror and Dani Arditi , held senior positions in military intelligence , and three of the former heads -- David Ivri , Uzi Dayan and Giora Eiland -- held senior military positions . <p> The National Security Council has been without a full time head since Cohen 's departure for the Mossad . Netanyahu 's choice for Cohen 's replacement , Avriel Bar-Yosef , never took over the post and is currently one of the main suspects in allegations of improprieties in the purchase of three German submarines . <p> Yaakov Nagel served as an interim replacement until April , and was instrumental in securing the $38 billion Memorandum of Understanding with the US governing its military aid to Israel over the next decade that was signed with the Obama administration . He was replaced upon his resignation by Eytan Ben-David , who has been the acting National Security Adviser since April . <p> The NSC has some 70 employees , and among its duties is to provide the prime minister with a summary of intelligence information that comes in from the various intelligence services , as well as to prepare the security cabinet meetings . The head of the NSC is generally one of the prime minister 's chief foreign policy advisers . 
@@20047613 <h> Suicide bombing in Gaza leaves member of Hamas security force dead <p> An unidentified individual blew himself up near the Rafah crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt on Thursday morning after Hamas security forces arrested him and another individual on the Gazan side , leaving a number of security forces wounded and one dead , Hamas-backed Interior Ministry in Gaza spokesman Iyad Bazm and Hamas media reports said early Thursday morning . <p> Bazm said the attacker died and the other individual was wounded . All of the wounded were transferred to the Abu Yousif Najjar hospital in Rafah. 
@@20049992 <h> Your Call : Storytellers confront the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza <p> One of the 122 Israeli checkpoints and barriers installed in Hebron , this one blocking off Shuhada Street in February 2015 . Shuhada Street used to be the main road connecting East and West Hebron before it came under Israeli control <p> Ahmad Al-Ba <p> Listen <p> Listening ... <p> / <p> 52:58 <p> June marked the 50th anniversary of the occupation of the West Bank , Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem . After visiting the occupied territories , renowned novelists and essayists Michael Chabon and Ayelet Waldman marked the anniversary by inviting international writers to bear witness to the human cost the Israeli occupation . <p> We 'll speak with them about their new book Kingdom of Olives and Ash : Writers Confront the Occupation . 
@@20070919 <h> The faces of white supremacy are disturbingly normal : Opinion <p> James Fields Jr . scowled when Abdul Aziz tried to engage him in conversation Saturday ( Aug. 12 ) in Charlottesville . " Hey , I remember you from Houston , " Aziz said , but Fields , was n't willing to talk . It 's not surprising that Fields , the Nazi-aligned protester accused of deliberately and fatally running his car into a counter-protester in Charlottesville , snubbed the black photographer who greeted him . The surprise is that Aziz gets so many other white supremacists to allow him into their circles and that he gets them to warm up to him and be photographed . <p> Watching hundreds of white nationalists assemble at the University of Virginia 's Nameless Field Friday night ( Aug. 11 ) for a " Unite the Right " rally was , Aziz said , like watching a scene out of the movie " 300 . " There were burning torches and guttural war cries . <p> When he approached the group with his camera , somebody in the formation began yelling " Lugenpresse ! Lugenpresse , " a favorite phrase of Hitler 's Nazi Party that means " lying press . " But another torch bearer calmed the first one down : " Oh , no , he 's cool . He 's cool . He 's allowed to be here . " And then , addressing Aziz directly , " Hey , you did n't send me those pics from Houston ! " <p> In Houston in June there was a " This is Texas " rally where sundry groups rallied to protect a monument to Sam Houston that -- get this -- nobody is trying to remove . In spring there 'd been " The Battle of New Orleans , " an ultimately unsuccessful effort to prevent the removal of Confederate monuments here . And then in July there was a so-called " Anti-Shariah Law/Sanctuary City March " that began at the U.S. Mint on Esplanade Avenue . <p> " I 've been documenting these folks all over the country , " Aziz said as we sat outside a coffee shop in New Orleans Tuesday afternoon . Members of these patriot groups , members of the Ku Klux Klan and members of some proudly fascist organizations have let Aziz get so close , I think , because they appreciate what they see in his photos . Those of us who oppose them may see lunatics or cold and calculating monsters . But it 's likely that his subjects think that Aziz 's photos have captured them in their glory . <p> " I let them talk , " Aziz said of his approach . He lets them express their opinions " in exactly their own words . " Letting them talk without challenging them , he said , makes them comfortable with him as he raises his camera . <p> Quoting them exactly does more than make them comfortable . It also should make us uncomfortable . We can look at his photography as a warning to America . Do n't look away . These people exist . And they do n't have spiked tails or horns growing out of their heads . <p> Aziz was worried that the Esplanade rally was going to get out of hand , but it did n't . New Orleans Police Superintendent Michael Harrison , speaking generally about the many protests and counter-protests that his officers have had to referee this year , said Tuesday he thinks that " strategy and coordination " is what helped things in New Orleans go relatively well . <p> Or maybe it was just the numbers of the people who showed up in Charlottesvile . Aziz said that the size of the crowd and the intensity of the anger they were expressing made many journalists in Charlottesville fear that deadly violence was inevitable . <p> " It 's going to continue to happen , " Aziz said of these increasingly violent gatherings of far-right groups , and to be sure , many more have been announced across the country . We ca n't minimize the danger these gatherings and these people represent . Nor can we credibly argue that these folks exist only on the fringes of our society . Nicholas Dean , the principal of Crescent Leadership Academy , a predominantly black charter school in the city , showed up at a protest to defend the Robert E. Lee monument and was later busted espousing white supremacist rhetoric . He insisted that he held no obnoxious racist beliefs , but then we saw video of an interview he gave . He 's holding a shield favored by white nationalist groups and wearing rings favored by Nazis . <p> A student of documentary filmmaking and a former communications director for the Juvenile Justice Project in Louisiana , Aziz 's life took a turn in 2008 when three things happened in quick succession . He watched " War Photographer , " a documentary about James Nachtwey , JJPL laid him off , and a friend asked if he wanted to go to Gaza . <p> Starting then , he said , he became " obsessed with this idea of documenting conflict . " Photography can change what we think about a war , what we think of a crisis . Think about the emotional impact of a couple of photos from Vietnam -- a prisoner being executed on the street , a naked prepubescent girl running and screaming as her skin melts from Napalm . " These images have such power to them and the ability to change the course of the war , " Aziz said . <p> We 're in a kind of a war right now . And what should shock us the most is how normal looking the people in Aziz 's photographs are . The faces of violent white supremacists are disturbingly unremarkable . 
@@20085576 <h> From Lebanon 's civil war to ISIL 's takeover of Mosul and Aleppo , how has war photography changed over the years ? <h> By <p> War photography has evolved since Lebanon 's 1975-1990 civil war , influenced by the advent of new technologies and the internet . Yet many of the ethical questions from that era remain relevant today , including when to put the camera down and how to properly assess the dangers of the job . <p> Three Lebanese war photographers - Aline Manoukian , Patrick Baz and George Azar - spoke with Al Jazeera about their own experiences covering conflicts , and about what factors have shaped the profession in recent decades . <h> The accidental war photographer <p> As a woman , Aline Manoukian says she was not taken seriously when she first began photographing Lebanon 's civil war Krista Boggs/Al Jazeera <p> " I started to be a war photographer by mistake , " Aline Manoukian says , noting that she was in her early 20s when she returned home to Lebanon after studying the history of photography in the United States . <p> " No one took me seriously at the beginning , even if I was taking the same risks as the men , " says Manoukian , noting that she was the first female war photographer in Lebanon . <p> She recalls landing her first photographic scoop in 1984 in the Beirut neighbourhood of Ras al-Nabaa , at a time when it was under lockdown , completely surrounded by snipers . <p> Manoukian did not know these details when an acquaintance asked whether she would like to take photos of aid workers distributing bread in Beirut . She agreed , and the next day she found herself inside a Red Cross ambulance , snapping photos as the vehicle avoided shells raining down from all directions . <p> When she took her pictures to the local newspaper , the editors looked at her in shock : " How did you manage to get in ? " they asked , according to Manoukian 's recollection . " No one has access to that area now ! " <p> From then on , she was officially commissioned to cover the civil war . <p> Decades later , Manoukian , now a mother herself , acknowledges the anguish her parents would have faced upon learning that she was entering the line of fire to cover the war . Phone lines often went down , so transmitting her photos out of the country could take hours . <p> The Palestinian camp of Burj el-Barajneh , located near Beirut , is pictured in 1988 Aline Manoukian/Al Jazeera <p> Manoukian eventually went on to become the bureau chief for Reuters , receiving wide acclaim for her photographs . But in 1989 , she opted to leave Lebanon for Paris , vowing never to shoot another war again . Having witnessed too many scenes of violence and death , she felt that nothing moved her any more . <p> " I had a few close calls , " she says . " Once , I witnessed a surprise execution right next to me . I had the person 's blood all over my face . " <p> The emotional toll such events took on Manoukian is clear . Today , she takes medication to help deal with her anxiety , although she was never specifically diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) . <p> Manoukian 's desensitisation to violence hit her especially hard after she travelled to Armenia in 1989 to photograph survivors of the great earthquake that hit the country a year earlier . People were complaining about their living conditions in make-shift houses and she felt unable to empathise with them . <p> " I needed a big dose of tragedy to feel anything , " she says . " I have never taken drugs . But it 's as if you offer a drug addict , who has been doing heroin all his life , a joint . And you think , ' What do I do with this ? ' " <p> Asked to cover the conflict in Yugoslavia in the 1990s , she refused . " I felt as if I had my feet in cement , " she says . " I could not go to cover another war . " <h> Addicted to the craft <p> Lebanon became the training ground for war photographer Patrick Baz Colin Bertier/Al Jazeera <p> " I had always wanted to be where the action happened ; I never felt I had a mission , " says French-Lebanese photographer Patrick Baz . " I just wanted to take pictures and tell a story . I had a news addiction . " <p> Just 12 when Lebanon 's war erupted , Baz started working as a war photographer in his late teens . <p> Lebanon became his training ground . Photographing the Israeli invasion in 1982 , he remembers the difficulty in covering a conflict that was unfolding in his own country . " It was very difficult because I had to be neutral in a country - my country - which was being occupied , " Baz says . <p> Starting as a freelance photographer in Lebanon , he went on to cover numerous other regional conflicts for the news agency AFP , from the first Intifada in Palestine , to the Gulf War , to the conflict in Libya and many others . <p> " When I arrived in Sarajevo , I was shocked . It was freezing cold , the fighting and snipers were everywhere ; this was war , " Baz recalls . <p> " I was used to the ' Lebanese way ' of doing war . You know you fight , yes , but then you would take a break , you would go to the mountains , and later you would come back , " he jokes . <p> Because he was French-Lebanese , Baz says that some of his colleagues and members of the local community questioned his neutrality , a claim he rejects . Baz also believes that being a war photographer is " a most egoistic profession ; whether you are a man or a woman , you should be single " , as it is too difficult to leave a family behind when heading out on a new mission . <p> Baz photographed the aftermath of a car bomb in Beirut in 1985 Patrick Baz/Al Jazeera <p> Baz describes his years as a war photographer with a troubling analogy : " It 's a drug . You want it again and again . I was like French comic-book character Obelix - I fell into it as a kid and I became addicted . " <p> In 2014 , he was supposed to cover the war in Gaza , but in the end he realised he could not go . His body and his mind had finally had enough , and he realised he was struggling with PTSD . <p> Although he has since gone through therapy , Baz says that he has lost all interest in war , and does not even want to look at war stories any more . Today , he works for AFP 's corporate department . <p> Over all the years , some of Baz 's strongest feelings have been on shooting funerals : " There were times when I refused to shoot on these occasions . It seemed an invasion of privacy to me . " <h> Combining art and technology <p> ' When I returned to Lebanon as an adult , what I witnessed resembled a scene from Mad Max - a world of chaos where everyone had a gun , ' photojournalist George Azar says Bilal Tarabey/Al Jazeera <p> When George Azar , an American of Lebanese descent , arrived in Beirut in 1981 , his childhood memories of summer visits to the country were shattered . <p> " When I returned to Lebanon as an adult , what I witnessed resembled a scene from Mad Max - a world of chaos where everyone had a gun , " Azar says . " If you had a gun , you had authority . It was a crazy world , but overlaid over a beautiful city and places I was attached to . " <p> As he describes in the documentary Beirut Photographer , Azar travelled to Lebanon to counter what he felt was a media bias in how the conflict was being covered by the US media . Setting him apart from other foreign correspondents was his determination to live in Beirut for several years during the war , as opposed to colleagues who parachuted in and out of the country and the conflict . <p> Azar long knew he wanted to be a journalist . The first car bomb he went to shoot revealed to him the true scope of the conflict . " I thought I would see an exploded vehicle , " he recalls . " When I arrived , I saw the entire block had been torn apart . " <p> Thinking back to his early work , he believes that the content was able to compensate for his lack of technical expertise . His career soared as he covered several conflicts , working as a photojournalist and documentary filmmaker and winning numerous awards . Today , he is back in Lebanon , where he teaches at the American University of Beirut . <p> Civilian rescue workers evacuate the upper floor of a high-rise apartment building hit by artillery shells in Beirut in 1984 George Azar/Al Jazeera <p> The motivation for being a war photographer during Lebanon 's civil war was never economic , he recalls . <p> " You do it war photography because it is important to you , " he says , recalling numerous close calls during the conflict , including being abducted six times and nearly executed . <p> Unlike some colleagues who describe the 1980s as the golden age for war photographers , Azar has a different perspective . There were fewer war photographers during that time , except for at certain peak moments , and the remuneration was no better or worse than it is today , he says . <p> He describes photography as a combination of art and technology , with the two elements " intimately intertwined " . <p> Azar also recalls debating whether it was " right " to record a video of an incident that unfolded during the 2006 Gaza war . <p> " When my driver did not show up for work one morning in November 2006 , I rushed to his village after hearing it had been hit by Israeli artillery fire . When I arrived , I found him sitting on the doorstep of this house in pools of his family 's blood . I was faced with the moral question of whether or not to film . After comforting him a bit , I chose to film the event , so that it would not go unrecorded , for the sake of history , " Azar says . <h> A changing profession <p> For Manoukian , what has changed radically since Lebanon 's civil war is a growing awareness of the impact pictures have in shaping public opinion . Taking a photo in the 1980s remained more abstract , she says , while images today have become increasingly important tools of influence , and photojournalists have become even bigger targets . <p> " If they do n't want you there , they shoot you , " Manoukian says . <p> American war photographer Kate Brooks agrees , noting that the job has become " far more dangerous than ever before . The risk of kidnapping and the different types of weapons used at the front line make it extremely high-risk . " <p> Social networks , such as Facebook , have also emerged as a way to check on a photographer 's views and neutrality , Baz notes : " Today , every single photo editor in the world knows every photographer in Syria because of the social networks . " <p> War photography is far more dangerous than ever before . The risk of kidnapping and the different types of weapons used at the frontline make it extremely high-risk . <p> Kate Brooks , war photographer <p> Equipment has also evolved , with more highly sophisticated lenses and camera sensors - and when photojournalists want to avoid calling attention to themselves , they can use something as discreet as an iPhone to take photos of publishable quality . <p> To Azar , the situation in a warzone is much bigger than any one individual : " People overestimate your ability to affect it , but there are times when you have to act , " he says . <p> A recent image of a little boy sitting in an ambulance in Aleppo sparked public criticism , even though rescue workers were present outside the frame , Manoukian says . <p> " People who criticise these situations do not realise what it 's like to be in a war situation , " she says . " Each one does his job the best they can , and each one has a role . Of course you help before taking pictures there if you need to . " <p> Brooks , who photographed the aftermath of a suicide bombing in Kabul in 2011 , says that she found herself unable to take pictures as she was busy helping the wounded , who needed urgent medical attention . <p> WATCH : Family Album - Photography during the Lebanese war <p> Gabriel Chaim , a Brazilian photographer and filmmaker who specialises in covering conflicts , recalls spending seven months on the front lines in Mosul , Iraq . He often dropped his camera to focus on helping fleeing civilians , he says . <p> " Each picture I post that shows the reality on the ground , and that makes a person question the reason for their existence when looking at the shot , motivates me to continue , " Chaim says . However , he pays a price for this , as he is frequently away from his family , missing important milestones in his children 's growth . <p> With regard to gender stereotypes in war photography , Manoukian says the situation still needs improvement , but there are definite advantages to being a woman in situations of conflict : " We 're generally considered less threatening , more apolitical and grossly underestimated - not to mention we can access the world of women . " <p> In a rapidly changing media landscape where amateur photographers abound , Azar and others stress the importance of having a good photo editor who can evaluate the quality of the images being presented . Meanwhile , the risks and ethical dilemmas inherent in the profession continue to grow alongside the importance of photography as a means of documenting conflict zones around the world . <p> Source:Al Jazeera <p> Content on this website is for general information purposes only . Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect liability . You hereby provide us with an irrevocable , unlimited , and global license for no consideration to use , reuse , delete or publish comments , in accordance with Community Rules &amp; Guidelines and Terms and Conditions . 
@@20101144 <h> In Gaza , we get four hours of electricity a day -- if we 're lucky <p> A small shop is seen between houses of Palestinian refugees during a power outage at al Shateaa refugee camp in Gaza City on July 30 . <p> A small shop is seen between houses of Palestinian refugees during a power outage at al Shateaa refugee camp in Gaza City on July 30 . ( Mohammed Saber / EPA ) <p> Abier Almasri <p> Some friends threw me a surprise birthday party last month . They placed a chocolate cake lit with candles before me and told me to make a wish for the year ahead . I immediately blurted out , " 24-hour electricity and air conditioning . " They laughed and suggested I wish for something more realistic . <p> Here in the Gaza Strip , 24-hour electricity has been a distant dream for well over a decade . Israel 's bombings of Gaza 's only power plant , its closing of the Gaza border and fallout from the split between the Palestinian Authority and Hamas , which governs Gaza , have meant chronic power outages . Not long ago , we had adjusted to eight hours of electricity a day . Now even that seems a luxury . <p> Our power comes from three sources : Israel , Egypt and our single functional power plant , which runs on fuel . Even before the current crisis , only about half of Gaza 's electricity needs were being met . Then there was a dispute between the Palestinian Authority and Hamas over payment for the fuel , both refused to pay , and the plant shut down in April , reducing the already inadequate supply by about 25% . <p> In June , Israel acceded to a Palestinian Authority request to cut the electricity it provided to Gaza in order to " dry up " funds to Hamas . This reduced supply by an additional 30% or so . That same month , Egypt began providing the fuel needed for the power plant , and the plant reopened . Even so , we are living with a new norm of four hours of electricity a day or less . <p> The crisis we face is not the result of a natural disaster or some other act of God . It 's entirely man-made . <p> Those four hours structure our days . When we do n't have power , life is on hold . We struggle with candles , flashlights and , if we can afford them , unreliable generators . We wait for the sound of an electric water pump to tell us we 're on the clock . I turn on all the light switches before I go to sleep to ensure that I do n't miss the electricity . When I hear the water pump and see the lights go on , I jump out of bed . Life becomes a race as we use every last minute to do laundry , finish urgent work tasks , enjoy cold drinking water . Then the lights go out again . <p> No electricity means trying to sleep in 95-degree weather without fans or air conditioning , but with the constant humming of generators . It means showering with only a trickle of water , scrambling to keep phones and laptops charged and never buying more than a day 's worth of meat or milk . It means always taking the stairs to avoid the risk of getting stuck in an elevator . It means planning your outings around blackouts and checking the electricity schedule for a friend 's neighborhood before visiting . <p> I have it better than most . Some children must do their homework by candlelight because their families can not afford generators . Small business owners , already struggling , have had to dramatically reduce operations and use expensive generators to keep the lights on . For many families , swimming in the sea offers the only real relief from the grim day-to-day in Gaza , and they now must contend with spikes in sewage effluent as blackouts cripple treatment plants . <p> Kidney patients in need of dialysis , which requires an uninterrupted electrical supply , are at particular risk . Having no electricity makes life a struggle for everyone in Gaza ; for the vulnerable , it can mean life or death . <p> To Israel , the Palestinian Authority and Hamas , Gazans are pawns in a shameful quest for political domination . As the occupying power , Israel bears responsibility under international law to facilitate normal life for the people of Gaza . Hamas exercises internal control and is responsible for protecting our rights . The Palestinian Authority oversees millions in donor funds and should also protect our rights , including paying for vital services . <p> It 's a sign of just how much our horizons have shifted in Gaza that we dream less of the occupation ending , or the border reopening so that we might leave this 365-square-kilometer strip . These days we dream mostly about electricity . And our situation is certain to get worse . The United Nations ' coordinator for humanitarian activities , Robert Piper , has warned that the latest cuts are " likely to lead to a total collapse of basic services . " <p> The crisis we face is not the result of a natural disaster or some other act of God . It 's entirely man-made . Just as they put us in the dark , they could give us light with the flip of a switch . 
@@20109166 <h> ' There 's a lot of life here , ' Lt.-Col. Ariyeh Berger tells the Post . <p> While the border with the Gaza Strip is Israel 's most explosive , three years of quiet has led to a surge of growth in Israeli communities bordering the Hamas-run Strip , a senior IDF officer told The Jerusalem Post . <p> " People here feel more secure and they are building in the kibbutzim and neighboring communities , " Lt.-Col. Ariyeh Berger said , adding that there has also been an increase in tourism . <p> In the nearby town of Sderot , which sits just a few kilometers from the border and which has been pounded by thousands of Hamas rockets over the years , construction has increased tremendously with high-rise buildings on the outskirts of the town and a new mall at one of the entrances to the town . <p> " There is a lot of life here . In my eyes , that 's the most incredible thing I have seen , " Berger , who served on the northern part of the Gazan border stated . <p> The coordination and cooperation between military forces in the area and the local regional councils is at the highest possible level , with all relevant figures involved on an almost daily basis . <p> And while the prolonged period of quiet since Operation Protective Edge in 2014 has brought new life to border communities , every once in a while the calm is shattered by a rocket launched by Salafi jihadist groups , reminding the IDF of the ever-present threat on the other side of the fence . <p> Several rockets have struck southern Israel in recent months and while most of them have been claimed by small jihadist groups , many times as a means for pressuring Hamas by raising tensions between the terrorist organization and Israel , Israel holds Hamas responsible for all fire coming from the Strip . <p> Company Commander Capt . Guy Dahan told the Post that following a rocket launch toward the Eshkol regional council last month " we were able to pinpoint the target " and he fired on a Hamas position with his tank . <p> Due to intelligence gathered on the target prior to the retaliation , " it was all over quickly , " he said . <p> While the group has rebuilt its missile stockpile with locally produced weapons the group has also invested in their own intelligence gathering capabilities , building outposts every dozen meters along the border with Israel and patrolling the border . While the outposts may allow Hamas to collect intelligence on the IDF , Dahan told the Post that the outposts has made it easier for him and his fellow soldiers to see their enemy . <p> According to Berger , Hamas , which quickly arrests those responsible for firing rockets towards Israel , has been deterred and is not looking to get into another conflict with Israel . Nonetheless the IDF continues to build its capabilities and maintains the preparedness of troops . <p> Berger told the Post that troops under his command have at least two drills per week " to make sure that if the situation suddenly changes we know how to properly react and get the situation under control as fast as possible . " <p> In December , hundreds of IDF soldiers participated in a large-scale 11-hour drill in border communities as well as in large southern cities such as Ashkelon , Netivot and Ofakim in preparation for another possible war with Hamas and terrorist attacks emanating from the coastal enclave , including sudden , surprising terrorist infiltrations through terror tunnels into populated Israeli territory in the south of the country . <p> During the 2014 war , several soldiers were killed by Hamas gunmen when they popped out of the numerous tunnels dug into Israel by the terrorist group , surprising the IDF and leaving the residents of border communities concerned of possible tunnels beneath their homes . By the time of the last cease-fire , the IDF said it had destroyed 32 tunnels that crossed under the border . <p> According to Berger the army has not heard from any civilian reporting hearing any sounds of digging , but nonetheless the army is " spending a significant amount of energy and time on increasing our ability to protect our citizens . " <p> The construction of Israel 's underground barrier , which has become incredibly symbolic to both sides , has led some officials to voice their concern that it may push Hamas to attack Israel . <p> Construction of the barrier is expected to cost over NIS 3 billion and be completed within two years . Despite the fact that the barrier is being built entirely in Israeli territory , OC Southern Command Maj.-Gen . Eyal Zamir recently stated it can potentially lead to a dangerous escalation . <p> But while above ground it may be quiet , both Hamas and the IDF are preparing for a war which could break out at any moment . <p> " We know Hamas , we have been dealing with them for years , " Dahan said . 
@@20120927 <h> By <p> Ramallah , Occupied West Bank- Palestinian leaders in Israel have denounced the arrest of Sheikh Raed Salah , leader of the northern branch of the Islamic Movement , as politically motivated and called for his immediate release . <p> Salah was arrested at his home in Umm Al Fahm , northern Israel , in the early hours of August 15 and is due to appear in an Israeli court on August 21 , accused of inciting violence and supporting a banned organisation . <p> " I am sure that this is a political arrest , " said Mohammed Barakeh , chairman of the Higher Committee for the Arab citizens of Israel . " This is a kind of anti-democratic act to put the Arab population in Israel under pressure . " <p> The arrest was widely publicised in Israel , and senior figures in the government quickly praised the move . Gilad Erdan , Israeli public security minister , said that Salah encouraged " extremism " and promoted violence and murder . The minister of communication , Ayoub Kara , said that Salah should be deported from Israel . <p> At a court hearing on August 17 , the police presented allegations that Salah gave inflammatory speeches , including one at a funeral for the three Palestinian citizens of Israel who killed two policemen outside al-Aqsa Mosque on July 14 . <p> His detention was extended until August 21 , but the judge also stated that some of the quotes cited by the police as evidence of incitement were taken out of context , while some were Quranic verses . <p> Jamal Zahalka , a Palestinian Knesset member who leads the Balad faction of the Arab Joint List in the Israeli parliament , said that Salah 's arrest was part of a wider political trend in Israel targeting Arab political life in the country . <p> " Its aim is to frighten people from coming to al-Aqsa , " Zahalka said . " It 's part of the political persecution of our political leaders here inside Israel . It reflects that Israel is strongly shifting to the right and there is a narrowing of political rights and freedom of speech for Palestinian citizens of Israel . " <p> Salah , a former mayor of Umm al Fahm , has been arrested and imprisoned by Israeli authorities several times since he entered public life . He has previously been jailed for fighting against Israeli police officers around al-Aqsa Mosque and was most recently imprisoned for nine months in 2016 on historical incitement charges relating to a sermon he gave in 2007 . <p> The northern branch of the Islamic Movement , which Salah has led since its split from the southern branch in 1996 , was declared an illegal organisation by Israel in November 2015 . Israel accused the movement of working with the Gaza-based Hamas and leading a campaign of incitement that centred around al-Aqsa Mosque . The charges were denied by Salah and the Israeli decision to ban the movement remains contentious . <p> " It 's a political movement which acts within the framework of nonviolent activity , and they the Israelis called it ' terrorist ' activity , " Zahalka told Al Jazeera . <p> " We demand the immediate release of Sheikh Raed Salah . We demand that the Islamic Movement have the right to express itself and to implement its political activities as a part of our political map . " <p> Under Salah 's leadership , the northern branch has championed the cause of protecting al-Aqsa Mosque from what Palestinians say is a ' Judaisation ' plan by Israel , a charge that the Israeli leadership has denied . <p> It reflects that Israel is strongly shifting to the right and there is a narrowing of political rights and freedom of speech for Palestinian citizens of Israel . <p> Jamal Zahalka , a Palestinian Knesset member <p> Al-Aqsa compound is a 35-acre compound referred to as al-Haram al-Sharif , or the Noble Sanctuary , by Muslims , and as Temple Mount by Jews . In recent years , the number of Jews visiting the site around Jewish holidays has risen , while a growing number of right-wing Jewish organisations have sought to increase the Jewish presence at the site and lobbied for Jews to have increased visitation and prayer rights . <p> Salah has styled the Islamic Movement as a guardian of al-Aqsa and successfully promoted the holy site as a unifying religious and nationalistic symbol for Palestinians in Israel , Jerusalem and across the occupied Palestinian territories . <p> Its presence has extended through much of the Old City , neighbourhoods in occupied East Jerusalem and beyond , through a network of non-profits and associations involved in welfare and development . <p> Salah has also proved adept at organising political activism around al-Aqsa , providing buses for worshippers from around Israel to the mosque throughout the year and holding an annual rally attracting thousands under the banner ' al-Aqsa is in danger . ' <p> That sentiment was clearly present among the Palestinian worshippers who joined the massive protests in July after Israel installed metal detectors and security cameras outside the al-Aqsa Mosque in the wake of the July 14 shooting . <p> " He has managed to present himself as one of the leading personalities around the consolidation of Muslim Palestinians around the holy site , " said Eran Tzidkiyahu , a Research Fellow at the Forum for Regional Thinking . " Challenging Israel , challenging certain elements in the Palestinian Authority , the Jordanians , you can see how his influence echoes beyond the site itself , into Israel , into the territories , into Jerusalem and in the regional arena . " <p> " The fact that he Salah has been going in and out of custody in the last couple of years , is an indication of how much he threatens the Israeli policy goals , or , stability in the eyes of the Israeli authorities , " he added . <p> Is Israel changing the status quo around al-Aqsa ? <p> Source:Al Jazeera <p> Content on this website is for general information purposes only . Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect liability . You hereby provide us with an irrevocable , unlimited , and global license for no consideration to use , reuse , delete or publish comments , in accordance with Community Rules &amp; Guidelines and Terms and Conditions . 
@@20151709 <h> WATCH : Air Force declares full operational capability of upgraded drone <h> Hermes 900 " Kochav " drone had its first flight during Operation Protective Edge in 2014 over the skies of the Gaza Strip . <p> The IDF Hermes 900 Kochav Drone ( IDF Spokesperson 's Unit ) <p> The Israel Air Force has declared full operational capability of its upgraded Elbit Systems Hermes 900 " Kochav " unmanned aerial vehicle on Wednesday , after a lengthy series of tests performed by the IAF 's flight-test squadron . <p> According to a statement released by the Israel Defense Forces ( IDF ) , the main objective of the upgrade was to double the power and capabilities of the UAV in as many aspects as possible , including its size , carrying capacity , air time and flight range . Other upgrades to the UAV included its communication systems , modes of operation and maintenance methods . <p> " This was done in order to optimize and facilitate the absorption of the new UAV into the existing infrastructure , without changes in length of training , " it read adding that despite the similarity of the UAVs the process included series of trial flights and adapting of combat doctrines . <p> The Hermes 900 is Elbit Systems ' next-generation multi-role medium altitude long endurance ( MALE ) unmanned aerial system ( UAS ) with a flight altitude of more than 30,000 ft and flight capabilities in all weather conditions . <p> The Hermes-900 has a wingspan of 15 m , is 8.3 m long and has a max takeoff weight of 1,100 kg and has a maximum payload weight of 300 kg . <p> Based on Elbit 's Hermes 450 UAS with over 300,000 operational flight hours , the Hermes 900 is used for both ground support and maritime patrol missions , as well as for integrated multi-platform , multi-sensor operations . <p> It has double the power and capabilities of the Hermes 450 and is able to carry a wide range of intelligence-gathering payloads and capable of performing missions for area dominance and persistent surveillance , target acquisition and intelligence gathering . <p> The Kochav had its first operational mission in the IAF on July 15th 2014 over the skies of the Gaza Strip during Operation Protective Edge , supporting a mission which ended with an airstrike which destroyed Hamas militant infrastructure . During the conflict the Kochav accumulated hundreds of flight hours with an extremely high success rate . <p> In a December 2015 interview with The Jerusalem Post Elad Aharonson , executive vice president and general manager of the Intelligence and ISTAR ( intelligence , surveillance , target acquisition and reconnaissance ) Division at Elbit , the upgrades were done to tailor the Hermes 900 to the IDF 's need to monitor quickly disappearing guerrilla-terrorist targets . <p> According to foreign media reports , Israel is considered a leading exporter of drones , with IAI and Elbit , selling UAVs to countries including Chile , Colombia , France , Germany , India , Mexico and Singapore . <p> The Hermes 900 was used during the 2015 World Cup in Brazil and last year the United Nations MINUSMA ( Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali ) signed a 3 year contract with Thales UK to them in Mali with the option to extend it another two years if necessary . 
@@20152627 <h> Choose language <h> Palestine : Dangerous escalation in attacks on freedom of expression <p> 23 August 2017 , 10:38 UTC <p> The Palestinian authorities in the West Bank and their rivals , the de-facto Hamas administration in Gaza , have both tightened the noose on freedom of expression in recent months , launching a repressive clampdown on dissent that has seen journalists from opposition media outlets interrogated and detained in a bid to exert pressure on their political opponents , said Amnesty International . <p> In the West Bank , the Palestinian authorities have arrested six journalists in August so far , shut down 29 websites and introduced a controversial Electronic Crimes Law imposing tight controls on media freedom and banning online expression and dissent . In the Gaza Strip , Hamas security forces have arrested at least two journalists since June and hampered others from freely carrying out their work . At least 12 Palestinians , including activists , were also detained by Hamas for critical comments posted on Facebook . <p> " The last few months have seen a sharp escalation in attacks by the Palestinian authorities in the West Bank and Hamas in Gaza , on journalists and the media in a bid to silence dissent . This is a chilling setback for freedom of expression in Palestine , " said Magdalena Mughrabi , Deputy Middle East and North Africa Director at Amnesty International . <p> " By rounding up journalists and shutting down opposition websites the Palestinian authorities in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip appear to be using police state tactics to silence critical media and arbitrarily block people 's access to information . " <p> By rounding up journalists and shutting down opposition websites the Palestinian authorities in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip appear to be using police state tactics to silence critical media and arbitrarily block people 's access to information <p> Magdalena Mughrabi , Deputy Middle East and North Africa Director at Amnesty International <p> The Electronic Crimes Law , adopted by President Mahmoud Abbas in July , violates citizens ' rights to privacy and freedom of expression and blatantly flouts the State of Palestine 's obligations under international law . <p> The law imposes heavy fines and permits the arbitrary detention of anyone critical of the Palestinian authorities online , including journalists and whistleblowers . It could also be used to target anyone for simply sharing or retweeting such news . Anyone who is deemed to have disturbed " public order " , " national unity " or " social peace " could be sentenced to imprisonment and up to 15 years hard labour . <p> " Instead of presiding over a chilling campaign designed to silence dissent , intimidate journalists and breach the privacy of individuals , the Palestinian authorities must stop arbitrarily detaining journalists and drop charges against anyone prosecuted for freely expressing themselves . They must also urgently repeal the Electronic Crimes Law , " said Magdalena Mughrabi . <p> In June , several weeks before the Electronic Crimes Law came into force , Palestinian authorities arbitrarily ordered internet service providers in the West Bank to block access to 29 websites , according to the Palestinian Center for Development and Media Freedoms ( MADA ) . They include websites belonging to political parties , opposition and independent media outlets and the al Quds network , a volunteer-run community online news outlet . <p> Instead of presiding over a chilling campaign designed to silence dissent , intimidate journalists and breach the privacy of individuals , the Palestinian authorities must stop arbitrarily detaining journalists and drop charges against anyone prosecuted for freely expressing themselves <p> Magdalena Mughrabi , Deputy Middle East and North Africa Director at Amnesty International <p> At least six people in the West Bank have been detained and charged with defamation or spreading information that " threatens the state " since the Electronic Crimes Law came into force in July . They are currently awaiting trial . At least 10 journalists were summoned for interrogation by Palestinian security forces in June and July . <p> In the Gaza Strip , Hamas security forces arrested two journalists in June , blocked journalists from reporting in some areas , and restricted the work of a foreign journalist . At least 12 activists and journalists were detained and questioned over comments and caricatures posted on social media deemed critical of Hamas authorities . Amnesty International also gathered evidence suggesting at least one of the activists was tortured and otherwise ill-treated in custody including by being beaten , blindfolded , and forced into stress positions for prolonged periods . <p> " Hamas must immediately release anyone held solely for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression and urgently investigate allegations of torture and other ill-treatment of detainees by security forces , " said Magdalena Mughrabi . <p> According to MADA , the Palestinian authorities in the West Bank are responsible for 81 attacks on media freedom since the start of the year . Hamas authorities in Gaza have been responsible for 20 such attacks . <p> For further information including a full analysis of the Electronic Crimes Law please see : 
@@20222852 <h> The Original Nakba : The Division of " TransJordan " <p> This year marks 100 years since the Balfour Declaration on November 2 , 1917 which endorsed " the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish People . " The declaration became the basis for the League of Nations ( precursor to the United Nations ) to endorse the Palestine Mandate which clearly articulated the history and rights of Jews to a reconstituted national homeland in the area now commonly thought of as Gaza , Israel , the West Bank and Jordan . <p> Advertisement <p> Article 25 of the Mandate allowed the administrator ( Britain ) to change the contours of the reestablished Jewish homeland . <p> " In the territories lying between the Jordan and the eastern boundary of Palestine as ultimately determined , the Mandatory shall be entitled , with the consent of the Council of the League of Nations , to postpone or withhold application of such provisions of this mandate as he may consider inapplicable to the existing local conditions , and to make such provision for the administration of the territories as he may consider suitable to those conditions , provided that no action shall be taken which is inconsistent with the provisions of Articles 15 , 16 and 18 . " <p> On September 23 , 1922 , the League of Nations adopted the suggestion of the British to divide the territory in two , in a document called the " Transjordan Memorandum . " That memorandum stripped away any mention of Jewish history in the land , facilitating the emigration of Jews to Palestine or the creation of a Jewish homeland in the area east of the Jordan River . <p> The memorandum also facilitated a complete abrogation of key components of Article 25 of the Palestine Mandate that allowed such separation : that " no action shall be taken which is inconsistent with the provisions of Articles 15 , 16 and 18 . " Those provisions specifically enumerated non-discrimination clauses that were to be kept in place in the new TransJordan : <p> " Article 15 : <p> The Mandatory shall see that complete freedom of conscience and the free exercise of all forms of worship , subject only to the maintenance of public order and morals , are ensured to all . No discrimination of any kind shall be made between the inhabitants of Palestine on the ground of race , religion or language . No person shall be excluded from Palestine on the sole ground of his religious belief . <p> The right of each community to maintain its own schools for the education of its own members in its own language , while conforming to such educational requirements of a general nature as the Administration may impose , shall not be denied or impaired . <p> Article 16 : <p> The Mandatory shall be responsible for exercising such supervision over religious or eleemosynary bodies of all faiths in Palestine as may be required for the maintenance of public order and good government . Subject to such supervision , no measures shall be taken in Palestine to obstruct or interfere with the enterprise of such bodies or to discriminate against any representative or member of them on the ground of his religion or nationality . <p> Article 18 : <p> The Mandatory shall see that there is no discrimination in Palestine against the nationals of any State Member of the League of Nations ( including companies incorporated under its laws ) as compared with those of the Mandatory or of any foreign State in matters concerning taxation , commerce or navigation , the exercise of industries or professions , or in the treatment of merchant vessels or civil aircraft . Similarly , there shall be no discrimination in Palestine against goods originating in or destined for any of the said States , and there shall be freedom of transit under equitable conditions across the mandated area . <p> Subject as aforesaid and to the other provisions of this mandate , the Administration of Palestine may , on the advice of the Mandatory , impose such taxes and customs duties as it may consider necessary , and take such steps as it may think best to promote the development of the natural resources of the country and to safeguard the interests of the population . It may also , on the advice of the Mandatory , conclude a special customs agreement with any State the territory of which in 1914 was wholly included in Asiatic Turkey or Arabia . " <p> International law was clear that any division of the territory would ensure that no discrimination of any kind be allowed on the basis of religion . <p> But that is exactly what Transjordan/Jordan became : an anti-Semitic country established by the United Nations which prohibits Jews in a variety of areas . <p> Any person who , not being Jewish , possessed Palestinian nationality before 15 May 1948 and was a regular resident in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan between 20 December 1949 and 16 February 1954 ; " <p> Can you think of anything more explicitly anti-Semitic than a law that specifically separates Jews from others and bans them from becoming citizens ? <p> No Land Purchases <p> Jordan prohibited Jews from buying any land in the area that had been part of the Palestine Mandate in an edict , Law No. ( 40 ) of 1953 Concerning the Leasing and Selling of Immovable Properties from Foreigners , as amended by Law No. ( 12 ) of 1960 ; and Law No. ( 2 ) of 1962 . <p> Jordan has continued along this path even post its 1994 peace treaty with Israel . <p> The League of Nations considered at the outset of its endorsement of a Jewish national home in 1920 and 1922 that perhaps the contours of such homeland should exclude the land east of the Jordan River . But international law has -- and continues to fail -- in two major respects : <p> In JORDAN : The provision ( Article 25 ) to cut the eastern part of the Mandate ( and ONLY the eastern part ) from the Jewish homeland specifically did not allow the discrimination against Jews from buying land or obtaining citizenship there ; <p> In the WEST BANK : All of the land west of the Jordan River was allocated for a Jewish homeland , and obviously with full legal authorization for Jews to purchase homes and obtain citizenship , despite calls by the current Palestinian Authority leadership to have a Jew-free country <p> The division of the Palestine Mandate in September 1922 to create Jordan was a disgraceful tragedy which denied Jewish history and rights east of the Jordan River . Despite this , people have attempted to expand upon Article 25 almost a century later to divide the land WEST of the Jordan River in an identical course of anti-Semitic charges that the West Bank should not have a single Jew . <p> The Palestinian Arabs coined the term " Nakba " ( catastrophe ) for the founding of the Jewish State on just a part of the Palestine Mandate on May 15 , 1948 . However , the original Nakba happened 26 years earlier , when the British gutted the essence of international law set out in the Palestine Mandate : for all of the land west of the Jordan River to be the Jewish homeland , and the land east of the river to have full legal rights for Jewish worship , land ownership and citizenship . <p> Remarkably , the Jewish Nakba of September 23 , 1922 is seeking a second coming . <p> Paul Gherkin is founder of the website FirstOneThrough , which is dedicated to educating people on Israel , the United States , Judaism and science in an entertaining manner so they speak up and take action . In a connected digital world , each person can be a spokesperson by disseminating news to thousands of people by forwarding articles or videos to people , or using the information to fight on behalf of a cause because In a connected digital world . YOU are FirstOneThrough. 
@@20223511 <h> Liberman : We will not ' repeat the mistake ' of freeing terrorists <h> The parents of Israeli officer Hadar Goldin , who has been missing since the 2014 battle of Rafah , stated that they " feel abandoned by the government " . <p> Avigdor Liberman. ( photo credit:MARC ISRAEL SELLEM ) <p> Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman stated on Sunday that Israel will not repeat the " mistake " of freeing Palestinian prisoners in exchange for any Israeli citizen held in the Hamas-run Gaza Strip , dead or alive . <p> Hamas is believed to be holding the bodies of missing IDF soldiers Lt. Hadar Goldin and Sgt. Oron Shaul who were killed in Gaza during Operation Protective Edge in 2014 , as well as two other Israeli citizens who voluntarily crossed into the Strip . <p> The militant terrorist organization has attempted to use all four as bargaining chips in negotiations for prisoner releases . <p> Addressing the resignation of Col. ( res . ) Lior Lotan , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's former coordinator on the issue of prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action , Liberman referred to the 2011 deal which released over 1,000 Palestinian security prisoners in exchange for the release of former IDF soldier Gilad Schalit , who was held captive by Hamas for 5 years . <p> Lotan , who was working without remuneration , resigned on Thursday after three years in the position . He was appointed in 2014 , replacing David Meidan who played a key role in formulating the prisoner exchange deal which led to the release of Gilad Schalit in 2011 . <p> The Defense Minister stated that Israel " will not repeat the mistake of the Schalit deal , which freed 1,027 terrorists , including murderers and their agents , including Mahmoud Qawasmeh , who was released to the Gaza Strip and financed the abduction of three youths , and Yahya Sanwar , who leads Hamas in the Gaza Strip . " <p> Kawasme helped fund the June 2014 kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in the West Bank and Sinwar , who was elected as the group 's leader in Gaza in February , is regarded by Israeli security officials as one of the most uncompromising leaders of Hamas . <p> According to Liberman seven Israelis have been murdered by Palestinians released in the deal and 202 have since been rearrested for involvement in terrorism , of whom 111 are still in Israeli prisons . <p> Liberman added that before replacing Lotan it was important to " draw clear borders for the State of Israel and its emissaries and to especially stand firm against our enemies and make it clear to them that we have no intention of compromising on the security of the people of Israel . " <p> The Defense Minister thanked Lotan for his commitment and effort in returning Goldin and Shaul and added that he understood and accepted the criticism from the families of the kidnapped soldiers . He added that he remains personally committed to their return as well as the other Israelis held in the Gaza Strip . <p> In addition to Goldin and Shaul , two other Israelis , Abera Mengistu , an Ethiopian-Israeli , and Hisham al-Sayed , a Bedouin , are both believed to be held by Hamas in the Gaza Strip . Mengistu and al-Sayed both suffer from psychiatric disorders and both crossed into the Gaza Strip voluntarily . They have been missing for three years . <p> Their cases are viewed by Israel as a humanitarian issue unrelated to the cases of Goldin and Shaul . Hamas has denied holding Mengistu hostage , but Israel has made it clear that they hold the group responsible for the safety of both Mengistu and al-Sayed . <p> Mengistu 's family said of Lotan 's resignation that without reassurance from the prime minister , " no progress in the returning of our son will be made . " <p> The Goldin family has been critical of the government , saying that it has failed to engage in any serious negotiations to retrieve the bodies of the two soldiers . They expressed their appreciation of Lotan and the work he did but also stated that they " feel abandoned by the government . " <p> Goldin 's father , noted historian Simcha Goldin , said on Israeli television Friday that " the government gives Hamas everything it wants and expects the envoy to accept it . " <p> The family , which demands that the soldier 's remains be brought to Israel for a proper Jewish burial , stated that the government is essentially paying lip service , saying they are " doing everything to bring back Hadar and Oron Shaul " while in reality , " nothing is being done . " <p> Former Israeli Minister of Defense Moshe ' Bogie ' Ya'alon said that " The resignation of Lior Lotan is a cause for worry . We have a moral duty to bring our soldiers to a Jewish burial in Israel and to bring back our missing citizens . " <p> Both Goldin and Shaul are believed to have been killed in Gaza during Operation Protective Edge and their bodies held by Hamas for the past four years . The militant terrorist organization has attempted to use the two soldier 's bodies as bargaining chips in negotiations for the release of prisoners . 
@@20238544 <h> Frustrated Negotiator Calls to Capture Thousands of Hamas Hostages ahead of Next War <p> A secret recording of Lior Lotan , the Israeli official who spent the past three years trying to secure the return of two living Israeli captives and two fallen Israeli soldiers from the Hamas rulers of the Gaza Strip and last Thursday resigned his thankless post , was broadcast by Army Radio on Monday , revealing Lotan 's professional opinion that there is only one way to effectively obtain such releases : the Middle east way . <p> " For every one of our captives , capture 200 Hamas prisoners , for every two -- 400 , " Lotan was heard in the recording of a closed meeting which apparently took place several months ago , debating the lessons learned from the 2014 Gaza War . " We have to fill our wallet with prisoners , " Lotan insisted . <p> Advertisement <p> In the recording , part of which was censored , the former negotiator is heard explaining the deterrent actions that the IDF must take in the next war : " In order to prevent the next abduction , Israel must have its own bank of hostages . For each kidnapped Israeli it has to take 200 . " <p> " This will not necessarily prevent kidnappings , but the other side 's approach will be different , " Lotan is heard saying . " This is an idea that the IDF must get better at in the next war . " <p> Lotan is yet to respond to Monday morning 's broadcast , but Leah Goldin , the mother of one of the fallen soldiers the Hamas is refusing to release for burial in Israel , Hadar Goldin and Oron Shaul , said that " the positive thing is that the Netanyahu office is about to appoint a coordinator to replace Lotan , and we support the Prime Minister on this issue . " <p> Lotan 's recommendation is based on the Hamas behavior regarding proposed exchanges since the summer of 2014 : when Israel offered to return 19 bodies of Hamas terrorists for the bodies of the two Israeli soldiers , Hamas stuck to its guns , insisting that the captives would be released only in exchange for terrorists in Israeli prisons . 
@@20257389 <h> The Writing On The Wall : Signs Of Occupation In Hebron <p> I was born in the ancient Palestinian city of Hebron in the occupied West Bank in a home around the corner from the entrance to Shuhada Street , the main thoroughfare and marketplace in the city . The name of our neighborhood was Bab el-Khan . <p> Today , hanging on the stone walls of my old Bab el-Khan neighborhood is a sign in Hebrew and English reading " Emek Hebron . " The houses and streets are empty . Israeli soldiers stand guard to secure ease of movement for illegal Israeli settlers to travel from our confiscated Palestinians homes to the synagogue they created after taking over half of our mosque . <p> There are between 600 and 850 settlers , many of them extremists , living in downtown Hebron , with around 1,500 soldiers to protect them . For more than a decade , settlers have been installing these new Hebrew and English signs throughout Hebron as part of an effort to assert their dominance over Palestinians in the city and erase our identities . Over the past two years , the number of signs has rapidly increased . Throughout Shuhada Street are directional signs in Hebrew and English : Chabad Cemetery , Old Jewish Cemetery , Ancient Tel Hebron . In the middle of the street are a series of murals . Above the murals are signs posted by the settlers with political statements declaring that Hebron belongs to them . <p> Their signs are illegal even under Israeli law , which requires , according to the Hebron Protocol signed in 1997 , that the Palestinian identity of the city be protected . In addition to changing street names from Arabic to English and Hebrew , many of the signs are mounted on private Palestinian shops and homes without the owner 's consent . This is not only erasure , it is incitement . <p> As part of an effort to have the signs removed , Rabbis for Human Rights has partnered with my organization , Youth Against Settlements , in filing suit against them in an Israeli court . Given the illegality of the signs , we had requested the Israeli army secure the area so we could remove them . The army refused to grant our request , citing fear of violence . Now we are taking the case to Israel 's high court in Jerusalem . Our petition reads : " In a systematic , deliberate manner , the Committee of the Renewal of the Jewish Community of Hebron erases Palestinian cultural identity from Hebron 's Shuhada Street and replaces it with a narrative consistent with the position of its members . This has been accomplished through exploiting the painful reality where most of the local Palestinian population has fled their homes as a result of severe restrictions imposed on them by the Israeli security forces . " <p> But the conversion of my old neighborhood from Bab el-Khan to Emek Hebron is only one of many actions by Hebron 's settler population to erase the Palestinian identity from our city and pressure us to leave our homes . In 1994 , Brooklyn-born Israeli settler Baruch Goldstein entered the Ibrahimi mosque and opened fire , murdering 29 Palestinians as they prayed , and injuring 125 more . Israel responded by banning Palestinian cars from driving down Shuhada Street , once the heart and soul of downtown Hebron , and dividing the Ibrahimi Mosque . <p> In 2000 , during the Second Intifada , and following a demand from settlers , the Israeli military banned Palestinians from walking on Shuhada Street , while Jewish settlers continue to walk and drive on the street freely . There are now around 100 barriers controlling Palestinian movement in Hebron and 20 permanently staffed Israeli army checkpoints . Palestinian shops remain closed , their front doors welded shut . Palestinian families who remain on Shuhada Street can only reach their homes by climbing-up to rooftop entrances and going through back alleyways , while many others have given up and moved away . <p> Through their coordination with the Israeli military , the settlers in Hebron control all aspects of Palestinian life . The have the army raid our homes , close streets and arrest activists such as me . In 2013 , the settlers submitted a letter to the army demanding they get rid of me . I was immediately arrested . In 2016 , the demands of the settlers to get rid of me were strengthened . Now I face 18 false charges in an Israeli military court . Though Amnesty International has said that all of the charges against me are baseless and 34 members of U.S. Congress and 4 Senators have signed letters in support of me , I will probably be sentenced to a significant amount of time in an Israeli prison for my efforts to defend Palestinian human rights in Hebron . <p> Let me be clear . I am not opposed to Jews coming to Hebron . It is the violent , hateful and illegal settler presence , protected by a hostile foreign army , that I am opposed to . It is decades of a colonial project that works day and night to erase my Palestinian identity and displace me from my land and birthplace that I am opposed to . Because of the illegal settlers , unemployment in Hebron 's old city , the area under Israeli military control , is over 70% . That is even higher than in Gaza . Having control of our religious sites and historic streets and marketplaces , combined with the removal of the Israeli military and their checkpoints and movement barriers , could create a booming tourist industry for our city , for which , without a doubt , Jews would be among our most frequent visitors . <p> The goal of all the restrictions , closures , barriers , and Hebrew signs is to make life so difficult for Palestinians that they leave willingly . This has been Israel 's goal throughout all of occupied Palestine , but Hebron is one of the places we feel it most intensely because settlers have implanted themselves directly in our midst . On Saturday afternoons , dozens of them , protected by soldiers , parade through the Palestinian marketplace . Twice a year , settlers demand to march into the area of the city that is under Palestinian Authority control . They claim that the tomb of one of their prophets is located in the basement of a Palestinian home there . They demand a ' sterile ' ( a term used by the Israeli army ) street without any Palestinians while they walk . Soldiers drive armored vehicles into the street and force Palestinian merchants to close their shops . A couple of weeks ago , they occupied a private Palestinian home , claiming they had purchased it despite the case still being in Israeli court . Soldiers immediately set up protection for them to remain in the home . They have already put a sign describing the home as Jewish property . <p> Though I am glad that our case to remove the settlers ' signs is going to court -- as I believe in always seeking accountability - I have little faith that Israel will enforce its own legal rulings even if they were to decide in our favor . The safeguarding of our identities and lands as Palestinians will not come from the very same Israeli systems built to oppress and erase us . <p> In addition to this court case , we must make all efforts ourselves to strengthen our civil society and protect our history , identity and homes . And we need even more solidarity from our progressive allies across all communities to help us place our signs of truth , justice and accountability . We know this will not come easily and will not be without sacrifice . But the possibility of returning the street of my birth from its occupied name of Emek Hebron back to its rightful name of Babs el-Kahn is worth the effort . <p> Issa Amro is a human rights defender living in Hebron . <p> The views and opinions expressed in this article are the author 's own and do not necessarily reflect those of the Forward . <p> The Forward 's independent journalism depends on donations from readers like you . <h> Tagged as : <h> Author <h> Your Comments <p> The Forward welcomes reader comments in order to promote thoughtful discussion on issues of importance to the Jewish community . All readers can browse the comments , and all Forward subscribers can add to the conversation . In the interest of maintaining a civil forum , The Forward requires that all commenters be appropriately respectful toward our writers , other commenters and the subjects of the articles . Vigorous debate and reasoned critique are welcome ; name-calling and personal invective are not and will be deleted . Egregious commenters or repeat offenders will be banned from commenting . While we generally do not seek to edit or actively moderate comments , our spam filter prevents most links and certain key words from being posted and the Forward reserves the right to remove comments for any reason . 
@@20259974 <p> Iran has returned to its old position as the largest backer of Hamas after Tehran fell out with the Palestinian militant group in 2012 over their divergent positions on the civil war in Syria . <p> The group 's new hardline leader in the Gaza strip , Yahya Sinwar , told reporters Monday that Iran was now the biggest supporter of the Hamas armed wing , the Qassim Brigades , and added Iran 's relationship with Hamas had returned to its old strength . <p> " Relations with Iran are excellent and Iran is the largest supporter of the Izz el-Deen al-Qassam Brigades with money and arms , " Sinwar said according to Reuters . " The relationship today is developing and returning to what it was in the old days ... This will be reflected in the resistance against Israel and in the Hamas agenda to achieve the liberation , " the Hamas leader said . <p> Neither Hamas nor Iran openly disclose the scale of the Islamic Republic 's backing but regional diplomats have indicated the money sent by Iran dramatically reduced over the course of Syria 's six-year-long civil war . What aid has arrived for the group , which seized control of Gaza in 2007 , was directed to the Qassim Brigades rather than the Hamas political wing . <p> Palestinian Hamas militants take part in a military show against Israel 's newly-installed security measures at the entrance to the al-Aqsa mosque compound , in Khan Younis , in the southern Gaza Strip July 20 , 2017 . REUTERS/Ibraheem Abu Mustafa . <p> Iran and Hamas fell-out over the latter 's refusal to back Syrian President Bashar al-Assad . Iran , along with Russia , is one of the principal backers of the regime in Damascus . But the Palestinian Islamist movement dropped its long-standing alliance with Assad in 2012 . At the time , Hamas was one of the last remaining Sunni Muslim groups to stand by Assad . <p> Sinwar 's February election represented a solidification of the role played by Hamas military hardliners in its political dealings . The military veteran , who spent 22 years inside an Israeli prison , was the leader and one of the founding members of the Qassim Brigades . <p> Sinwar has been a vocal critic of more moderate civilian leaders . Following the 2014 Gaza-Israel conflict he called for Hamas to take better advantage of the escalating military situation . <p> However , in this most recent press conference the former military leader said a direct conflict was not in Hamas ' strategic interests , even if the group was always prepared for a confrontation . " We are not interested in a war , we do not want war and we want to push it backward as much as we could so that our people will relax and take their breath and in the same time we are building our power , " he said . " We do not fear war and we are fully ready for it . " 
@@20275145 <p> JERUSALEM ( AP ) - U.N . Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has taken a helicopter tour of the Israel-Gaza border , viewing the volatile front from the air before visiting the isolated territory . <p> Guterres was accompanied Wednesday by Danny Danon , Israel 's ambassador to the United Nations , and Aviv Kochavi , Israel 's deputy military chief . Danon warned Guterres that Gaza 's Hamas rulers have been exploiting international humanitarian aid to dig tunnels aimed at attacking Israel . He says : " Instead of working to ensure a better future for their children , Hamas has turned the residents of Gaza into hostages . " <p> Guterres met local Israeli residents before heading to Gaza . <p> Guterres is on his first visit to the region since taking office at the beginning of the year . His meetings with Israeli and Palestinian leaders are aimed at encouraging the resumption of peace talks . 
@@20277015 <p> The tiny gas-rich nation of Qatar has been ostracized by its regional Arab neighbors , which accuse it of funding terrorism and being too cozy with Iran . <p> In June , Saudi Arabia , Egypt , Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates cut diplomatic and trade ties , closed their air routes to Qatari aircraft and served the government with a host of demands aimed at fighting terrorism and extremism . Mauritius , Mauritania , Yemen , the Maldives and one of Libya 's two warring governments also suspended diplomatic relations . <p> Qatar did little to quell the conflict when it announced this month it was restoring full diplomatic relations with Iran , more than a year after it pulled its ambassador in a show of solidarity with Saudi Arabia , whose embassy and diplomatic missions in Iran were attacked . <p> Qatari officials say their country has done no wrong and that a statement by the country 's emir that became a pretext for the row -- he was quoted on Qatar news sites as praising Iran and the fundamentalist group Hamas -- were fabricated in a hacking attack . Qatar blamed the Emirates , which has denied it . <p> " Qatar does not fund terrorism whatsoever -- no groups , no individuals . Not from afar or from a close distance , " Sheik Saif bin Ahmed al Thani , director of the government communications office , said in an interview with the Los Angeles Times ' editorial board and reporters . <p> His comments have been edited for length and clarity . <p> Q : Why do these countries want to pick a fight with Qatar and why now ? <p> A : I can answer what we think it is . We have differences in opinion . That is the main issue . Differences of opinion . We do not support parties or individuals or get involved in ( the ) domestic affairs ( of other countries ) . <p> So when we get involved in Tunisia , or Syria ... or Libya , we do not go around and pick a party or ( an ) individual . ... We usually focus our attention on the public and try our best not to pick sides . <p> They accuse us of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood . For example in Tunisia , after the " Arab Spring , " the government that came into office was from the Muslim Brotherhood . We worked with them once they became the government . We did n't work with them as a party . We worked with them as a government , to support them . <p> After that , the opposition party won . ... ( And ) we are the ones working with them . We did a conference last year in support of Tunisia , supporting investment . We established a fund for small and medium businesses . <p> Q : How do you characterize your relationship with Hamas ? <p> A : The Bush administration supported the elections in Palestine . They wanted to ensure the participation of all different entities in the election . And it was requested of us that Hamas participates . <p> Arab countries did not support the idea of elections . The U.S. wanted all Arabic countries to support the elections . So we took the lead on that . And other countries came in afterward . <p> So Hamas won the election . Hamas keeps a fraction of a political office in ( the Qatari capital ) Doha . Our funding to Palestine is all done through the United Nations and it is done for certain projects . ( It 's ) funding for building the infrastructure . We have a commitment of about $1.2 billion dollars for rebuilding Gaza . In a few cases we have given salaries to the government in Gaza . The few times that happened , it happened through the U.N . in coordination with Israel . <p> So whether it 's money , or whether it 's building materials , it all goes through the U.N . and through our governmental structure , except the three or four times when we paid salaries and that was paid through the Palestinian Authority with the U.N . <p> Q : Does Qatar have any relationship now with the Muslim Brotherhood ? <p> A : We do n't have a relationship with the Muslim Brotherhood . All of these accusations came because of Egypt . You know , when the Arab Spring happened , when the military was in control , we started supporting Egypt economically . <p> We had cash placed in their central bank . We committed to five shipments of gas free of charge , and other things . These commitments started before ( President Mohamed ) Morsi came into power and they continued after he left . The last shipment of gas was at the end of 2016 . <p> We did n't stop ( them ) because these commitments were from us to the people of Egypt . So we do n't really care who 's in office . Other than that , we do not support the Muslim Brotherhood . <p> Q : Morsi lost power in a coup . So it sounds like your government does n't care how a government changes ? <p> A : We deal with what the people choose . <p> Q : A coup is n't the people 's choice . <p> A : Yes , but we will not get involved internally . <p> Q : But by dealing with an illegitimate government that came to power via coup are n't you de facto getting involved ? <p> A : I get your point . But in the end , we wo n't deal with domestic matters . To us , what 's happening in Egypt is a domestic matter . The people chose not to do anything about it . So ... we 'll go with their choice . <p> Q : So if the Muslim Brotherhood rose and took power back your policies would be the same toward Egypt ? <p> A : Yes . <p> Q : What about claims Qatar paid billions of dollars to Iran and al-Qaida-linked affiliates to secure the release of Qatari hostages that were held in Iraq ? <p> A : The money was not given to any terrorist groups . While we were trying to get ( the hostages ) out , we did approach Iran . We approached any government that could help influence these groups to get them out . <p> Everything was done with the knowledge , and in partnership with , the Iraqi government , with the Iraqi intelligence and security . <p> Q : What 's it going to take to resolve the crisis ? <p> A : What it 's going to take is first to remove the blockade . This is not a way of bullying a country into taking a certain position . <p> And secondly we 're willing to sit and negotiate and sit in a dialogue environment and discuss all these things . Of course anything that will affect our sovereignty and independence , we will not consider , even slightly . We will not sit at the table unless we have a sort of level playing field . But we 're willing to discuss . At the end of the day most of these things are differences of opinion and we can discuss them . <p> Q : What 's Qatar 's relationship with the Trump administration ? <p> A : Broadly , the relationship between the U.S. and Qatar is a very strategic , strong relationship . It has always been strong . After Sept. 11 , the U.S. military left Saudi Arabia for domestic reasons . They just moved everything to Qatar and we gave them our main and only airport as a base , until the current base was ready . <p> So our relationship with the U.S. is very institutional . We have a good relationship with the Trump administration , as we did with the Obama administration , and the Bush administration , and so on . <p> Q : So you do n't take offense that President Trump sometimes comes across as being anti-Muslim ? <p> A : I do not know if it 's correct to put it that way . The U.S.-Riyadh summit ( in Saudi Arabia last May ) was indeed successful . It had all the Muslim Arab countries there . We are the only country that has taken further steps with the counterterrorism ( agreement ) we signed . It 's the first of its kind for the region . So I do n't really agree with your point ( that Trump is anti-Muslim ) . <h> Popular in News <p> 1 <p> 2 <p> 3 <h> Reader Comments ... <h> Next Up in Nation &amp; World <p> The idea for Seattle startup Apptentive started as a conversation on a 16-hour road trip as co-founders Robi Ganguly and Andrew Wooster drove from the Bay Area to Seattle . Wooster had several apps in Apple 's App Store during that time in 2008 , and Ganguly pestered him with questions about who his customers were and how much they liked the apps ... <p> We were introduced at a party . Our first exchange was pretty innocuous . I was opening a bottle of wine and asked her to put on some music , maybe some John Pizzarelli ? She recognized the name and made just the right choice ( " I Was a Little Too Lonely " -- a weird little bit of foreshadowing ) and then kept the tunes going all day . I was ... <p> The pocket-sized ( 4.0-by-2.0-by-0.6-inches ) Alcomate Revo is a great device for accurately reading an individual 's blood-alcohol level . Since I have no experience with using portable breathalyzers , I did some research and found that often pocket breathalyzers must be sent back to manufacturers for calibration to keep them accurate . That&amp;rsquo ... <p> It used to be that taking a dunk in the pool was the splash of death for your phone . Not any more . Samsung 's Galaxy line has been increasingly water-resistant for its last few generations , and the rest of the phone market is hustling to get in line . With that in mind , here are four of CNET 's top-rated waterproof phones . -- -- &amp;mdash ... <p> Daniela Luzi Tudor was running her first tech startup in California when her co-founder confronted her : Tudor needed to get help for a drug and alcohol addiction . Until she did , her co-founder said , their close friendship would have to take a step back . " It was the first time I really felt unconditional love from another person , " said Tudor ... 
