<h> India is vitally dependent on Russia for spares for its old military hardware . Due to the Ukraine attack , Russian armament factories are unable to fulfil the Indian demand for spares <p> To begin with , it ought to be recognised that despite stringent western sanctions against Russia and a virtual boycott of President Vladimir Putin India has continued to maintain friendly ties with it . Pursuing an independent foreign policy despite the US-led West frowning upon growing bonhomie between Prime Minister Modi and President Putin underlines the changed international scenario and the birth of a multi-polar world . Only a few years ago were India to further strengthen its economic ties defying Washington , it would have been penalised . No longer does the West see strategic merit in riling India , distancing itself from a reliable ally in the multifaceted effort to check the relentless growth of China as a formidable military and economic power . India 's crucial role in standing up to China is a major factor for the West to keep it in good humor . India also ideally could be a bridge between East and West , especially as one the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the huge opportunity it offers for western manufacturing industries and investments , India also serves as a huge market for western goods . In the above scenario , the highly stepped up energy imports from Russia following its invasion of Ukraine angered the West . However it sullenly put up with it for fear of a public rebuff from a resurgent India . The above was the backdrop for the two-day Modi-Putin summit in Moscow after five years . This is the first overseas visit of Modi after being voted to power for the third term in a row . It was also their first face-to-face meeting after the Russian attack on Ukraine . Indeed , the day newspapers published a photograph of the two leaders hugging each other in typical Modi style , the world reported a Russian missile attack on a children 's hospital in Ukraine resulting in nearly thirty fatalities . This caused President Volodymyr Zelensky to question Modi 's " jaffi-pappi " with Putin , without him being aware that Modi most forthrightly reiterated his old stand condemning war as a solution to end disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on battlefield . " Solutions and peace talks can not be successful under the shadow of guns , bombs and bullets ... " Though India officially did not participate in the recent peace summit in Switzerland convened at the behest of Ukraine , it has repeatedly called for cease-fire followed by talks to resolve the dispute . With President Putin listening Modi on Monday again emphasised the need for an end to armed hostilities to give peace a chance in the beleaguered Ukraine which for over two years now has been a victim of a naked Russian aggression . It is also notable that Putin aside from fellow authoritarian countries , namely China , Iran and North Korea has only India to count as a friend in the entire democratic world . So , necessarily , he must give the Indian leader some slack when he most embarrassingly preaches peace while he brazenly wages a war of aggression against its much smaller neighbor . On its part , India is vitally dependent on Russia for spares for its old military hardware . Due to the Ukraine attack , Russian armament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Happily , in recent years India has increasingly diversified supplies of its military equipments from the Western countries . <p> Meanwhile , due to Western sanctions the payment for imports of Russian oil and fertilisers , among other such goods , is posing a huge problem . Russia needs hard currency for the discounted oil imports , but the sanctions are a stumbling block . Cross-border investment could be a solution but amidst sanctions this seems difficult . Under the circumstance the agreement to try and boost bilateral trade from the current $65 billion to $100 billion in 2030 may be difficult to achieve . The joint statement condemned terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir while both leaders called for unhindered access of humanitarian aid for the Palestinian civilian population in the war-torn Gaza . Also they sought the early unconditional release of Israeli hostages by Hamas . Meanwhile , the always frivolous Congress general secretary and media in-charge Jairam Ramesh failing to find anything meaningful to say about Modi 's visit harped on the unfortunate coincidence of the Russian attack on the children 's hospital in Kyiv , approvingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even foreign affairs through the prism of the standard anti-Modi virus of the party detracts from the seriousness with which the main Opposition party craves to be taken by the Indian people . It is for Ramesh to figure out whether he should persist with his habitual childish derision of all things Modi and thus invite popular mocking in return . Or he should did deep into his highly-educated self to expound seriously on governmental matters . Surely he is not itching to match the Balak Buddhi of his leader .
