<h> Top UN court says Israel 's presence in occupied Palestinian territories is illegal and should end <p> PTI Updated : July 19 , 2024 22:01 IST <p> The Hague ( Netherlands ) , Jul 19 ( AP ) The top UN court said on Friday that Israel 's presence in the Palestinian occupied territories is " unlawful " and called on it to end and for settlement construction to stop immediately , issuing an unprecedented , sweeping condemnation of Israel 's rule over the lands it captured 57 years ago . Israeli Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu quickly denounced the nonbinding opinion issued by the 15-judge panel of the International Court of Justice , saying the territories are part of the Jewish people 's historic " homeland " . But the resounding breadth of the decision could impact international opinion and fuel moves for unilateral recognition of a Palestinian state . The judges pointed to a wide list of policies , including the building and expansion of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and east Jerusalem , use of the area 's natural resources , the annexation and imposition of permanent control over lands and discriminatory policies against Palestinians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The court said Israel had no right to sovereignty in the territories , was violating international laws against acquiring territory by force and was impeding Palestinians ' right to self-determination . It said other nations were obliged not to " render aid or assistance in maintaining " Israel 's presence in the territories . It said Israel must end settlement construction immediately and that existing settlements must be removed , according to a summary of the more than 80-page opinion read out by court President Nawaf Salam . Israel 's " abuse of its status as the occupying power " renders its " presence in the occupied Palestinian territory unlawful , " the court said , saying its presence must be ended as " rapidly as possible " . The court 's opinion , sought by the UN General Assembly after a Palestinian request , decision came against the backdrop of Israel 's devastating military assault on Gaza , which was triggered by the Hamas-led attacks in southern Israel on October 7 . In a separate case , the International Court of Justice is considering a South African claim that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim that Israel vehemently denies . Israel , which normally considers the United Nations and international tribunals as unfair and biased , did n't send a legal team to the hearings . Instead , it submitted written comments , saying that the questions put to the court are prejudiced and fail to address Israeli security concerns . Israeli officials have said the court 's intervention could undermine the peace process , which has been stagnant for more than a decade . " The Jewish people are not conquerors in their own land -- not in our eternal capital Jerusalem and not in the land of our ancestors in Judea and Samaria , " Netanyahu said in a statement issued by his office , using the biblical terms for the West Bank . " No false decision in The Hague will distort this historical truth and likewise the legality of Israeli settlement in all the territories of our homeland can not be contested . " Speaking outside the court , Riad Malki , an adviser to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas , called the opinion " a watershed moment for Palestine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other nations must now " uphold the clear obligations " outlined by the court . " No actions of any kind ... to support Israel 's illegal occupation " . Israel captured the West Bank , east Jerusalem and Gaza Strip in the 1967 Mideast war . The Palestinians seek all three areas for an independent state . Israel considers the West Bank to be disputed territory , whose future should be decided in negotiations , while it has moved populations there in settlements to solidify its hold . It has annexed east Jerusalem in a move that is n't internationally recognised , while it withdrew from Gaza in 2005 but maintained a blockade of the territory after Hamas took power in 2007 . The international community generally considers all three areas to be occupied territory . The court 's decision strikes at the heart of the ambiguity of Israel 's administration of the territories . Israel has n't annexed the West Bank -- though settler groups have pressed it to do so -- but it calls it part of its homeland and has effectively treated it as an extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has appropriated large swaths of the territory as " state lands " . At the same time , Netanyahu 's government has repeatedly rejected the creation of any Palestinian state . Abbas ' Palestinian Authority has been restricted to control over divided enclaves scattered around the West Bank . The Palestinians presented arguments at hearings in February , along with 49 other nations and three international organisations . In the hearings , Malki accused Israel of apartheid and urged the United Nations ' top court to declare that Israel 's occupation of lands sought by the Palestinians is illegal and must end immediately and unconditionally for any hope for a two-state future to survive . Erwin van Veen , a senior research fellow at the Clingendael think tank in The Hague , said before the decision that a ruling that Israel 's policies breach international law would " isolate Israel further internationally , at least from a legal point of view . " He said such a ruling would remove " any kind of legal , political , philosophical underpinning of the Israeli expansion project . " It could also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in particular in the Western world , following the recent example of Spain and Norway and Ireland , he said . It 's not the first time the ICJ has been asked to give its legal opinion on Israeli policies . Two decades ago , the court ruled that Israel 's West Bank separation barrier was " contrary to international law . " Israel boycotted those proceedings , saying they were politically motivated . Israel says the barrier is a security measure . Palestinians say the structure amounts to a massive land grab , because it frequently dips into the West Bank . Israel has built well over 100 settlements , according to the anti-settlement monitoring group Peace Now . The West Bank settler population has grown by more than 15 per cent in the past five years to more than 500,000 Israelis , according to a pro-settler group . Israel also has annexed east Jerusalem and considers the entire city to be its capital . An additional 200,000 Israelis live in settlements built in east Jerusalem that Israel considers to be neighborhoods of its capital . Palestinian residents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for them to build new homes or expand existing ones . The international community considers all settlements to be illegal or obstacles to peace since they are built on lands sought by the Palestinians for their state . Netanyahu 's hard-line government is dominated by settlers and their political supporters . Netanyahu has given his finance minister , Bezalel Smotrich , a former settler leader , unprecedented authority over settlement policy . Smotrich has used this position to cement Israel 's control over the West Bank by pushing forward plans to build more settlement homes and to legalise outposts . ( AP ) PYPY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
