<h> A list curated by the Delhi-based bookseller The Bookshop Inc , with contributions from readers , writers , literary critics , and publishing professionals . <p> The New York Times ' list of 100 Best Books of the 21st Century has propelled the existing conversation around the megalithic influence of American publishing on global readership to address some interesting questions : How much , and for how long , is America going to obsess over reading and dissecting itself ? Why do reading lists emerging from the West claim authority on culture with such hyperbole ? Is diversity in literature only worth mention if the story speaks of a Great War or unrest ? <p> If a list so devoid of representation from small presses , working class writers , genre-fiction , and poetry is aggregated with contributions from " hundreds of novelists , nonfiction writers , academics , book editors , journalists , critics , publishers , poets , translators , booksellers , librarians and other literary luminaries " , what does that say about the backbone of American readership ? <p> This past week , our team at The Bookshop Inc went through the records of our careers as booksellers , reached out to authors , literary critics , peers in publishing , and our community at-large in an effort to build an alternative list of books we think have most significantly influenced readers upon publication , in the last 24 years . Some of them were written in the 1900s and translated into English in the 21st century . <p> As booksellers , we do not believe in a ranking system based on hierarchy . To that effect , this list is organised alphabetically by the author 's first name . In no way is it authoritative , but we 've tried our best to accommodate a diversity of books from around the world . We hope this list introduces the reading community to books which have silently , often without fanfare or awards , managed to alter the way we think about the world . <p> Minor Detail begins during the summer of 1949 , one year after the war that the Palestinians mourn as the Nakba -- the catastrophe that led to the displacement and expulsion of more than 700,000 people -- and the Israelis celebrate as the War of Independence . Israeli soldiers capture and rape a young Palestinian woman , and kill and bury her in the sand . Many years later , a woman in Ramallah becomes fascinated to the point of obsession with this " minor detail " of history . <h> Khwabnama , Akhtaruzzaman Elias , translated from the Bengali by Arunava Sinha <p> Bengal in the 1940s . Having overcome the famine and the revolt of the sharecroppers , Bengal 's peasants are uniting . Work is scarce and wages are low . There is barely any food to be had . The proposal for the formation of Pakistan , the elections of 1946 , and communal riots are rewriting the contours of history furiously . Amidst all this , in an unnamed village , a familiar corporeal spirit plunges into knee-deep mud . This is Tamiz 's father , the man in possession of Khwabnama . <p> At first glance , Khwabnama is the tale of a harmless young farmhand who becomes a sharecropper and dreams of a future that has everything to do with the land that he cultivates and the soil that he tills . The fabric of his dreams , though , have as much to do with the history of the land as its future , and as much to do with memories as with hope . <h> Carpentaria , Alexis Wright <p> Carpentaria starts before time begins . It offers a portrait of a fictional town called Desperance in the Gulf country of north-western Queensland , where whites have pushed the Aboriginal people to the margins . This is where the protagonists , Norm Phantom and Angel Day , live . And their lives are larger than life . They are , at once , the Gulliver to the Government Giants , and they also are the Queen of Night and the King of the Ocean , powerful spirits that entire towns and seas can not hold down . Norm seduces all the fish in all the oceans , and no man who could resist Angel 's charms has ever lived . Then there 's the mayor , Stan Bruiser , a bigot capable of limitless brutality , with the credo : " If you ca n't use it , eat it , or fuck it , then it 's no bloody use to you . " He abets the entry of the mining company that turns the earth upside down and inside out , bringing out ancient spirits buried with the ore , which then threaten to wipe out the silly town from the face of the earth . <p> As Caravaggio , the libertine of Italy 's art world , and the loutish Spanish poet Quevedo aim to settle scores over the course of one brutal tennis match , the old European order edges closer to eruption . <p> Across the ocean , in early 16th-century Mexico , the Aztec Empire is under the fatal grip of Hern ? n Cort ? s and his Mayan lover . While they scheme and conquer , fight and fuck , their domestic comedy will change the course of history , throwing the world -- and Rome 's tennis match -- into a mind-bending reverie of assassinations , executions , papal dramas , carnal liaisons and artistic revolution . <h> The Hungry Tide , Amitav Ghosh <p> Between the sea and the plains of Bengal , on the easternmost coast of India , lies an immense archipelago of islands . Some are vast and some no larger than sandbars ; some have lasted through recorded history while others have just washed into being . These are the Sundarbans . Here there are no borders to divide fresh water from salt , river from sea , and even land from water . The settlers of the Sundarbans believe that anyone without a pure heart who ventures into the watery labyrinth will never return . Survival is an everyday battle for these people who have managed to strike a delicate balance with nature . But the arrival of Piyali Roy , of Indian parentage but stubbornly American , and of Kanai Dutt , a sophisticated Delhi businessman , threatens to upset this balance . Kanai has returned to the islands at the request of his aunt , a local figure , for the first time since the death of his uncle , a political radical who died mysteriously in the aftermath of a local uprising . When Piyali , who is on the track of the rare river dolphins , hires Fokir , an illiterate but proud local man to guide her through the backwaters , Kanai becomes her translator . From this moment , the tide begins to turn . <h> A Gentleman in Moscow , Amor Towles <p> On June 21 , 1922 , Count Alexander Rostov -- recipient of the Order of Saint Andrew , member of the Jockey Club , Master of the Hunt -- is escorted out of the Kremlin , across Red Square and through the elegant revolving doors of the Hotel Metropol . <p> Deemed an unrepentant aristocrat by a Bolshevik tribunal , the Count has been sentenced to house arrest indefinitely . But instead of his usual suite , he must now live in an attic room while Russia undergoes decades of tumultuous upheaval . <p> Can a life without luxury be the richest of all ? <h> Are Prisons Obsolete ? , Angela Davis <p> Angela Davis has put the case for the latest abolition movement in American life : the abolition of the prison . As she quite correctly notes , American life is replete with abolition movements , and when they were engaged in these struggles , their chances of success seemed almost unthinkable . For generations of Americans , the abolition of slavery was a sheerest illusion . Similarly , the entrenched system of racial segregation seemed to last forever , and generations lived in the midst of the practice , with few predicting its passage from custom . The brutal , exploitative ( dare one say lucrative ? ) convict-lease system that succeeded in formal slavery reaped millions to southern jurisdictions ( and untold miseries for tens of thousands of men , and women ) . Few predicted its passing from the American penal landscape . Davis expertly argues how social movements transformed these social , political and cultural institutions , and made such practices untenable . <h> The Mushroom at the End of the World : On the Possibility of Life in Capitalist Ruins , Anna Lowenhaupt Tsing <p> Matsutake is the most valuable mushroom in the world -- and a weed that grows in human-disturbed forests across the northern hemisphere . Through its ability to nurture trees , matsutake helps forests to grow in daunting places . It is also an edible delicacy in Japan , where it sometimes commands astronomical prices . In all its contradictions , matsutake offers insights into areas far beyond just mushrooms and addresses a crucial question : what manages to live in the ruins we have made ? <p> By investigating one of the world 's most sought-after fungi , The Mushroom at the End of the World presents an original examination of the relationship between capitalist destruction and collaborative survival within multispecies landscapes , the prerequisite for continuing life on earth . <p> After twenty-five years of " sex , drugs , bad behaviour and haute cuisine " , chef Anthony Bourdain decided to tell all -- and he meant all . <p> From his first oyster in the Gironde to his lowly position as a dishwasher in a honky-tonk fish restaurant in Provincetown ; from the kitchen of the Rainbow Room atop the Rockefeller Center to drug dealers in the East Village , from Tokyo to Paris and back to New York again , Bourdain 's tales of the kitchen are as passionate as they are unpredictable , as shocking as they are funny . <h> My Seditious Heart , Arundhati Roy <p> My Seditious Heart collects the work of a two-decade period when Arundhati Roy devoted herself to the political essay as a way of opening up space for justice , rights and freedoms in an increasingly hostile environment . Taken together , these essays trace her twenty-year journey from the Booker Prize-winning The God of Small Things to the extraordinary The Ministry of Utmost Happiness -- a journey marked by compassion , clarity and courage . Radical and readable , they speak always in defence of the collective , the individual and the land , in the face of the destructive logic of financial , social , religious , military and governmental elites . <h> The Night Bookmobile , Audrey Niffenegger <p> First serialised as a weekly column in the UK 's Guardian newspaper , The Night Bookmobile tells the story of a wistful woman who one night encounters a mysterious disappearing library on wheels that contains every book she has ever read . Seeing her history and most intimate self in this library , she embarks on a search for the bookmobile . But her search turns into an obsession , as she longs to be reunited with her own collection and memories . <h> Reading Lolita in Tehran : A Memoir in Books , Azar Nafisi <p> For two years before she left Iran in 1997 , Nafisi gathered seven young women at her house every Thursday morning to read and discuss forbidden works of Western literature . They were all former students whom she had taught at university . Some came from conservative and religious families , others were progressive and secular ; several had spent time in jail . They were shy and uncomfortable at first , unaccustomed to being asked to speak their minds , but soon they began to open up and to speak more freely , not only about the novels they were reading but also about themselves , their dreams and disappointments . Their stories intertwined with those they were reading -- Pride and Prejudice , Washington Square , Daisy Miller and Lolita -- their Lolita , as they imagined her in Tehran . <h> The Queue , Basma Abdel , Aziz , translated from the Arabic by Elisabeth Jaquette <p> In a surreal , but familiar , vision of modern-day Egypt , a centralised authority known as the " Gate " has risen to power in the aftermath of the " Disgraceful Events , " a failed popular uprising . Citizens are required to obtain permission from the Gate in order to take care of even the most basic of their daily affairs , yet the Gate never opens , and the queue in front of it grows longer . <p> Citizens from all walks of life mix and wait in the sun : a revolutionary journalist , a sheikh , a poor woman concerned for her daughter 's health , and even the brother of a security officer killed in clashes with protestors . Among them is Yehia , a man who was shot during the Events and is waiting for permission from the Gate to remove a bullet that remains lodged in his pelvis . Yehia 's health steadily declines , yet at every turn , officials refuse to assist him , actively denying the very existence of the bullet . <p> Ultimately it is Tarek , the principled doctor tending to Yehia 's case , who must decide whether to follow protocol as he has always done , or to disobey the law and risk his career to operate on Yehia and save his life . <h> How To Write About Africa , Binyavanga Wainaina <p> Binyavanga Wainaina was a seminal author and activist , remembered as one of the greatest chroniclers of contemporary African life . After his death in 2019 , this ground-breaking collection brings together his pioneering writing on the African continent for the first time . A rule-breaker full of wry satire and piercing wisdom , this collection includes many of Binyavanga 's most critically acclaimed pieces , including the viral satirical sensation How to Write About Africa . Writing fearlessly across a range of topics -- from politics to international aid , cultural heritage and redefining sexuality , this is a remarkable illustration of a writer at the height of his power . <h> Cursed Bunny , Bora Chung , translated from the Korean by Anton Hur <p> Cursed Bunny is a genre-defying collection of short stories by Korean author Bora Chung . Blurring the lines between magical realism , horror , and science fiction , Chung uses elements of the fantastic and surreal to address the very real horrors and cruelties of patriarchy and capitalism in modern society . <h> The Last Lover , Can Xue , translated from the Mandarin by Annelise Finegan <p> In Can Xue 's extraordinary book , we encounter a full assemblage of husbands , wives , and lovers . Entwined in complicated , often tortuous relationships , these characters step into each other 's fantasies , carrying on conversations that are " forever guessing games . " Their journeys reveal the deepest realms of human desire , figured in Can Xue 's vision of snakes and wasps , crows , cats , mice , earthquakes , and landslides . In dive bars and twisted city streets , on deserts and snowcapped mountains , the author creates an extreme world where every character " is driving death away with a singular performance . " <p> Who is the last lover ? The novel is bursting with vividly drawn characters . Among them are Joe , sales manager of a clothing company in an unnamed Western country , and his wife , Maria , who conducts mystical experiments with the household 's cats and rosebushes . Joe 's customer Reagan is having an affair with Ida , a worker at his rubber plantation , while clothing store owner Vincent runs away from his wife in pursuit of a woman in black who disappears over and over again . By the novel 's end , we have accompanied these characters on a long march , a naive , helpless , and forsaken search for love , because there are just some things that ca n't be stopped -- or helped . <h> The Order of Time , Carlo Rovelli , translated from the Italian by Simon Carnell and Erica Segre <p> Time is a mystery that does not cease to puzzle us . Philosophers , artists and poets have long explored its meaning while scientists have found that its structure is different from the simple intuition we have of it . From Boltzmann to quantum theory , from Einstein to loop quantum gravity , our understanding of time has been undergoing radical transformations . Time flows at a different speed in different places , the past and the future differ far less than we might think , and the very notion of the present evaporates in the vast universe . <p> Enlightening and consoling , The Order of Time shows that to understand ourselves we need to reflect on time -- and to understand time we need to reflect on ourselves . <h> In the Dream House , Carmen Maria Machado <p> In the Dream House is Carmen Maria Machado 's engrossing and wildly innovative account of a relationship gone bad . Tracing the full arc of a harrowing experience with a charismatic but volatile woman , this is a bold dissection of the mechanisms and cultural representations of psychological abuse . <p> Each chapter views the relationship through a different lens , as Machado holds events up to the light and examines them from distinct angles . She casts a critical eye over legal proceedings , fairy tales , Star Trek and Disney villains , as well as iconic works of film and fiction , infusing all with her characteristic wit , playfulness and openness to enquiry . The result is a powerful book that explodes our ideas about what a memoir can do and be . <h> The Literary Conference , C ? sar Aira <p> C ? sar is a translator who 's fallen on very hard times due to the global economic downturn ; he is also an author , and a mad scientist hell-bent on world domination . On a visit to the beach , he intuitively solves an ancient riddle , finds a pirate 's treasure , and becomes a very wealthy man . Even so , C ? sar 's bid for world domination comes first and so he attends a literary conference to be near the man whose clone he hopes will lead an army to victory : the world-renowned Mexican author , Carlos Fuentes . A comic science fiction fantasy of the first order , The Literary Conference is the perfect vehicle for C ? sar Aira 's takeover of literature in the 21st century . <h> The Emperor 's Children , Claire Messud <p> In Manhattan , just after the century 's turn , three thirty-year-old friends , Danielle , Marina and Julius , are seeking their fortunes . But the arrival of Marina 's young cousin Bootie -- fresh from the provinces and keen , too , to make his mark -- forces them to confront their own desires and expectations . The Emperor 's Children by Claire Messud is an American classic : a sweeping portrait of one of the most fascinating cities in the world , and a haunting illustration of how the events of a single day can change everything , forever . <h> Blankets , Craig Thompson <p> Blankets is the story of a young man coming of age and finding the confidence to express his creative voice . Craig Thompson 's poignant graphic memoir plays out against the backdrop of a Midwestern winterscape : finely-hewn linework draws together a portrait of small-town life , a rigorous fundamentalist Christian childhood , and a lonely , emotionally mixed-up adolescence . <p> Under an engulfing blanket of snow , Craig and Raina fall in love at winter church camp , revealing to one another their struggles with faith and their dreams of escape . Over time though , their personal demons resurface and their relationship falls apart . It 's a universal story , and Thompson 's vibrant brushstrokes and unique page designs make the familiar heartbreaking all over again . <h> In a Strange Room , Damon Galgut <p> A young man takes three journeys , through Greece , India and Africa . He travels with little purpose , letting the chance encounters on the road dictate his path . But although he knows that he is drifting , he is unable to settle . It is as if , without these encounters , the person he is can not exist . And yet each journey ends in disaster . <p> A novel of longing and thwarted desire , rage and compassion , In a Strange Room is an extraordinary evocation of one man 's search for love , and a place to call home . <h> The Dawn of Everything : A New History of Humanity , David Graeber and David Wengrow <p> For generations , our remote ancestors have been cast as primitive and childlike either free and equal , or thuggish and warlike . Civilisation , we are told , could be achieved only by sacrificing those original freedoms or , alternatively , by taming our baser instincts . David Graeber and David Wengrow show how such theories first emerged in the eighteenth century as a reaction to indigenous critiques of European society , and why they are wrong . In doing so , they overturn our view of human history , including the origins of farming , property , cities , democracy , slavery and civilisation itself . <p> Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar ( 1891-1956 ) , one of India 's foremost revolutionaries , grew up untouchable . Battling against the odds , he gained multiple doctorates , campaigned against social discrimination and the caste system and went on to draft the Constitution of India . Throughout his life Ambedkar faced routine discrimination : in school at the age of 10 ; in Baroda after his return from Columbia University ; and while travelling in later life . The discrimination experienced by Ambedkar continues to haunt a majority of India 's 170 million Dalits as many are still denied water , shelter and the basic dignities of life . In this ground-breaking work , Pardhan-Gond artists Durgabai Vyam and Subhash Vyam interweave historical events with contemporary incidents , infusing fresh energy into the graphic idiom through their magical art . <h> Mirrors , Eduardo Galeano , translated from the Spanish by Mark Fried <p> In Mirrors , Galeano smashes aside the narrative of conventional history and arranges the shards into a new pattern , to reveal the past in a radically altered form . From the Garden of Eden to 21st-century cityscapes , we glimpse fragments in the lives of those who have been overlooked by traditional histories : the artists , the servants , the gods and the visionaries , the black slaves who built the White House , and the women who were bartered for dynastic ends . <h> The End of Eddy , ? douard Louis , translated from the French by Michael Lucey <p> ? douard Louis grew up in a village in northern France where many live below the poverty line . His bestselling debut novel about life there , The End of Eddy , has sparked debate on social inequality , sexuality and violence . It is an extraordinary portrait of escaping from an unbearable childhood , inspired by the author 's own . Written with an openness and compassionate intelligence , ultimately , it asks , how can we create our own freedom ? <h> Beauty is a Wound , Eka Kurniawan , translated from the Indonesian by Annie Tucker <p> The epic novel Beauty is a Wound combines history , satire , family tragedy , legend , humour , and romance in a sweeping polyphony . The beautiful Indo prostitute Dewi Ayu and her four daughters are beset by incest , murder , bestiality , rape , insanity , monstrosity , and the often vengeful undead . Kurniawan 's gleefully grotesque hyperbole functions as a scathing critique of his young nation 's troubled past : the rapacious offhand greed of colonialism ; the chaotic struggle for independence ; the 1965 mass murders of perhaps a million Communists , followed by three decades of Suharto 's despotic rule . <h> Yoga for People Who Ca n't Be Bothered To Do It , Geoff Dyer <p> From Amsterdam to Cambodia , from Rome to Indonesia , from New Orleans to Libya , and from Detroit to Ko Pha-Ngan , Geoff Dyer finds himself both floundering about in a sea of grievances and finding moments of transcendental calm . This aberrant quest for peak experiences leads , ultimately , to the Black Rock Desert in Nevada , where , to quote Tarkovsky 's Stalker , " your most cherished desire will come true " . <p> Aware their grandmother is gravely ill , four siblings make a pact to keep death from taking her away . But Death does arrive all the same , as it must . He comes gently , naturally . And he comes with enough time to share a story with the children that helps them to realise the value of loss to life and the importance of being able to say goodbye . <h> Norwegian Wood , Haruki Murakami , translated from the Japanese by Jay Rubin <p> When he hears her favourite Beatles song , Toru Watanabe recalls his first love Naoko , the girlfriend of his best friend Kizuki . Immediately he is transported back almost twenty years to his student days in Tokyo , adrift in a world of uneasy friendships , casual sex , passion , loss and desire -- to a time when an impetuous young woman called Midori marches into his life and he has to choose between the future and the past . <h> The Dinner , Herman Koch , translated from the Dutch by Sam Garrett <p> It 's summer 's evening in Amsterdam and two couples meet at a fashionable restaurant . Between mouthfuls of food and over the delicate scraping of cutlery , the conversation remains a gentle hum of politeness -- the banality of work , the triviality of holidays . But the empty words hide a terrible conflict and , with every forced smile and every new course , the knives are being sharpened . <p> Each couple has a fifteen-year-old son . Together , the boys have committed a horrifying act , caught on camera , and their grainy images have been beamed into living rooms across the nation ; despite a police manhunt , the boys remain unidentified -- by everyone except their parents . As the dinner reaches its culinary climax , the conversation finally touches on their children and , as civility and friendship disintegrate , each couple shows just how far they are prepared to go to protect those they love . <h> Enter Ghost , Isabella Hammad <p> After years away from her family 's homeland , and reeling from a disastrous love affair , actress Sonia Nasir returns to Haifa to visit her older sister Haneen . On her arrival , she finds her relationship with Palestine is fragile , both bone-deep and new . <p> When Sonia meets the charismatic Mariam , a local director , she joins a production of Hamlet in the West Bank . Soon , Sonia is rehearsing with a dedicated , if competitive , group of men -- yet as opening night draws closer , it becomes clear just how many obstacles stand before the troupe . Amidst it all , the life she once knew starts to give way to the exhilarating possibility of finding a new self in her ancestral home . <h> A Dictator Calls , Ismail Kadare , translated from the Albanian by John Hodgson <p> In June 1934 , Joseph Stalin allegedly telephoned the famous novelist and poet Boris Pasternak to discuss the arrest of fellow Soviet poet Osip Mandelstam . <p> In a fascinating combination of dreams and dossier facts , Ismail Kadare reconstructs the three minutes they spoke and the aftershocks of this tense , mysterious moment in modern history . <p> Weaving together the accounts of witnesses , reporters and writers such as Isaiah Berlin and Anna Akhmatova , Kadare tells a gripping story of power and political structures , of the relationship between writers and tyranny . The telling brings to light uncanny parallels with Kadare 's experience writing under dictatorship , when he received an unexpected phone call of his own . <h> The Wandering Falcon , Jamil Ahmed <p> The boy known as Tor Baz -- the black falcon -- wanders between tribes . He meets men who fight under different flags , and women who risk everything if they break their society 's code of honour . Where has he come from , and where will destiny take him ? <p> Set in the decades before the rise of the Taliban , Jamil Ahmad 's stunning debut takes us to the essence of human life in the forbidden areas where the borders of Pakistan , Iran and Afghanistan meet . Today the " tribal areas " are often spoken about as a remote region , a hotbed of conspiracies , drone attacks and conflict . <p> With rare tenderness and perception , Jamil Ahmad describes a world of custom and cruelty , of love and gentleness , of hardship and survival ; a fragile , unforgiving world that is changing as modern forces make themselves known . <h> Why Be Happy When You Could Be Normal ? , Jeanette Winterson <p> In 1985 Jeanette Winterson 's first novel , Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit , was published . It was Jeanette 's version of the story of a terraced house in Accrington , an adopted child , and the thwarted giantess Mrs Winterson . It was a cover story , a painful past written over and repainted . It was a story of survival . <p> This book is that story 's the silent twin . It is full of heart and humour and a fierce love of life . It is about the pursuit of happiness , lessons in love , the search for a mother and a journey into madness and out again . It is generous , honest and true . <h> Narcopolis , Jeet Thayil <p> Shuklaji Street , in Old Bombay . In Rashid 's opium room , the air is thick with voices and ghosts : Hindu , Muslim , Christian . A young woman holds a long-stemmed pipe over a flame , her hair falling across her eyes . Men sprawl and mutter in the gloom . Here , they say you introduce only your worst enemy to opium . There is an underworld whisper of a new terror : the Pathar Maar , the stone killer , whose victims are the nameless , invisible poor . In the broken city , there are too many to count . <p> Stretching across three decades , with an interlude in Mao 's China , it portrays a city in collision with itself . With a cast of pimps , pushers , poets , gangsters and eunuchs , it is a journey into a sprawling underworld written in electric and utterly original prose . <h> Go Went Gone , Jenny Erpenbeck , translated from the German by Susan Bernofsky <p> One of the great contemporary European writers takes on Europe 's biggest issue Richard has spent his life as a university professor , immersed in the world of books and ideas , but now he is retired , his books remain in their packing boxes and he steps into the streets of his city , Berlin . Here , on Oranienplatz , he discovers a new community -- a tent city , established by African asylum seekers . Hesitantly , getting to know the new arrivals , Richard finds his life changing , as he begins to question his own sense of belonging in a city that once divided its citizens into them and us . <h> How to Do Nothing : Resisting the Attention Economy , Jenny Odell <p> In a world where addictive technology is designed to buy and sell our attention , and our value is determined by our 24/7 data productivity , it can seem impossible to escape . But in this inspiring field guide to dropping out of the attention economy , artist and critic Jenny Odell shows us how we can still win back our lives . <p> Odell sees our attention as the most precious -- and overdrawn -- resource we have . And we must actively and continuously choose how we use it . We might not spend it on things that capitalism has deemed important but once we can start paying a new kind of attention , she writes , we can undertake bolder forms of political action , reimagine humankind 's role in the environment , and arrive at more meaningful understandings of happiness and progress . <h> Em and the Big Hoom , Jerry Pinto <p> Set in Bombay during the last decades of the 20th century , Em and The Big Hoom tells the compelling story of the Mendeses mother , father , daughter and son . Between Em , the beedi smoking , hyperactive mother , driven frequently to hospital by her mania and failed suicide attempts and the Big Hoom , the rock-solid , dependable father , trying to hold things together as best he can , they are an extraordinary family . <h> The Namesake , Jhumpa Lahiri <p> The Namesake takes the Ganguli family from their tradition-bound life in Calcutta through their fraught transformation into Americans . On the heels of their arranged wedding , Ashoke and Ashima Ganguli settle together in Cambridge , Massachusetts . An engineer by training , Ashoke adapts far less warily than his wife , who resists all things American and pines for her family . When their son is born , the task of naming him betrays the vexed results of bringing old ways to the new world . Named for a Russian writer by his Indian parents in memory of a catastrophe years before , Gogol Ganguli knows only that he suffers the burden of his heritage as well as his odd , antic name . <p> Lahiri brings great empathy to Gogol as he stumbles along the first-generation path , strewn with conflicting loyalties , comic detours , and wrenching love affairs . With penetrating insight , she reveals not only the defining power of the names and expectations bestowed upon us by our parents , but also the means by which we slowly , sometimes painfully , come to define ourselves . <h> No Good Men Among the Living : America , the Taliban , and the War through Afghan Eyes , Anand Gopal <p> In a breathtaking chronicle , acclaimed journalist Anand Gopal traces the lives of three Afghans caught in America 's war on terror . He follows a Taliban commander , who rises from a scrawny teenager to a leading insurgent ; a US-backed warlord , who uses the American military to gain wealth and power ; and a village housewife trapped between the two sides , who discovers the devastating cost of neutrality . Through their dramatic stories emerges a stunning tale of how the United States had triumph in sight in Afghanistan -- and then brought the Taliban back from the dead . <h> A General Theory of Oblivion , Jos ? Eduardo Agualusa , translated from the Spanish by Daniel Hahn <p> On the eve of Angolan independence , Ludo bricks herself into her apartment , where she will remain for the next thirty years . She lives off vegetables and pigeons , burns her furniture and books to stay alive and keeps herself busy by writing her story on the walls of her home . <p> The outside world slowly seeps into Ludo 's life through snippets on the radio , voices from next door , glimpses of a man fleeing his pursuers and a note attached to a bird 's foot . Until one day she meets Sabalu , a young boy from the street who climbs up to her terrace . <h> Home Fires , Kamila Shamsie <p> Isma is free . After years spent raising her twin siblings in the wake of their mother 's death , she is finally studying in America , resuming a dream long deferred . But she ca n't stop worrying about Aneeka , her beautiful , headstrong sister back in London -- or their brother , Parvaiz , who 's disappeared in pursuit of his own dream : to prove himself to the dark legacy of the jihadist father he never knew . <p> Then Eamonn enters the sisters ' lives . Handsome and privileged , he inhabits a London world away from theirs . As the son of a powerful British Muslim politician , Eamonn has his own birthright to live up to -- or defy . Is he to be a chance at love ? The means of Parvaiz 's salvation ? Two families ' fates are inextricably , devastatingly entwined in this searing novel that asks : what sacrifices will we make in the name of love ? <h> Border : A Journey to the Edge of Europe , Kapka Kassabova <p> When Kapka Kassabova was a child , the border zone between Bulgaria , Turkey and Greece was rumoured to be an easier crossing point into the West than the Berlin Wall so it swarmed with soldiers , spies and fugitives . On holidays close to the border on the Black Sea coast , she remembers playing on the beach , only miles from where an electrified fence bristled , its barbs pointing inwards toward the enemy : the holiday-makers , the potential escapees . <p> Today , this densely forested landscape is no longer heavily militarised , but it is scarred by its past . In Border , Kapka Kassabova sets out on a journey to meet the people of this triple border -- Bulgarians , Turks , Greeks , and the latest wave of refugees fleeing conflict further afield . She discovers a region that has been shaped by the successive forces of history : by its own past migration crises , by communism , by two World wars , by the Ottoman Empire , and -- older still -- by the ancient legacy of myths and legends . As Kapka Kassabova explores this enigmatic region in the company of border guards and treasure hunters , entrepreneurs and botanists , psychic healers and ritual fire-walkers , refugees and smugglers , she traces the physical and psychological borders that criss-cross its villages and mountains , and goes in search of the stories that will unlock its secrets . <h> We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves , Karen Joy Fowler <p> Rosemary does n't talk much , and about certain things she 's silent . She had a sister , Fern , her whirlwind other half , who vanished from her life in circumstances she wishes she could forget . And it 's been ten years since she last saw her beloved older brother Lowell . <p> Now in college , Rosemary starts to see she ca n't go forward without going back to the time when aged five , she was sent away from home to her grandparents and returned to find Fern gone . <p> It was Rosemary 's parents who began all of the trouble -- do n't they always ? But , dear reader , exactly how they did it is a twist you 'll have to discover for yourself . <h> Until the Lions , Karthika Nair <p> In Until the Lions , Karthika Nair retells the Mahabharata through multiple voices . Her poems capture the epic through the lenses of nameless soldiers , outcast warriors and handmaidens but also abducted princesses , tribal queens and a gender-shifting god . As peripheral figures and silent catalysts take centre stage , we get a glimpse of lives and stories buried beneath the edifices of god and nation , heroes and victory ; a glimpse of the price paid for myth and history -- all too often interchangeable . <p> This brilliant work of reportage on the Mumbai slum called Annawadi , and the true-life stories of some of its inhabitants , is a powerful and unforgettable account of the impact of corruption , inequality , globalisation and religion in an Indian megacity . <h> The Devotion of Suspect X , Keigo Higashino , translated from the Japanese by Alexander O Smith <p> Yasuko lives a quiet life , working in a Tokyo bento shop , a good mother to her only child . But when her ex-husband appears at her door without warning one day , her comfortable world is shattered . <p> When Detective Kusanagi of the Tokyo Police tries to piece together the events of that day , he finds himself confronted by the most puzzling , mysterious circumstances he has ever investigated . Nothing quite makes sense , and it will take a genius to understand the genius behind this particular crime . <p> Insightful and stunning stories that plumb the struggle against history and betrayal of relationships in pivotal moments , this collection showcases one of our greatest and original voices . <h> The Hundred Years ' War on Palestine : A History of Settler Colonial Conquest and Resistance , Rashid Khalidi <p> The 20th century for Palestine and the Palestinians has been a century of denial : denial of statehood , denial of nationhood and denial of history . The Hundred Years War on Palestine is Rashid Khalidi 's powerful response . Drawing on his family archives , he reclaims the fundamental right of any people : to narrate their history on their own terms . <p> Beginning in the final days of the Ottoman Empire , Khalidi reveals nascent Palestinian nationalism and the broad recognition by the early Zionists of the colonial nature of their project . These ideas and their echoes defend Nakba -- the Palestinian term for the establishment of the state of Israel -- the cession of the West Bank and Gaza to Jordan and Egypt , the Six-Day War and the occupation . Moving through these critical moments , Khalidi interweaves the voices of journalists , poets and resistance leaders with his own accounts as a child of a UN official and a resident of Beirut during the 1982 siege . The result is a profoundly moving account of a hundred-year-long war of occupation , dispossession and colonisation . <h> The Inheritance of Loss , Kiran Desai <p> In a crumbling , isolated house at the foot of Mount Kanchenjunga in the Himalayas lives an embittered judge who wants only to retire in peace , when his orphaned granddaughter , Sai , arrives on his doorstep . The judge 's cook watches over her distractedly , for his thoughts are often on his son , Biju , who is hopscotching from one gritty New York restaurant to another . Kiran Desai 's brilliant novel , published to huge acclaim , is a story of joy and despair . Her characters face numerous choices that majestically illuminate the consequences of colonialism as it collides with the modern world . <h> The Vanishing Man : In Pursuit of Vel ? zquez , Laura Cumming <p> In 1845 , a Reading bookseller named John Snare came across the dirt-blackened portrait of a prince at a country house auction . Suspecting that it might be a long-lost Vel ? zquez , he bought the picture and set out to discover its strange history -- a quest that led from fame to ruin and exile . <p> Fusing detection and biography , this book shows how and why great works of art can affect us , even to the point of mania . And on the trail of John Snare , Cumming makes a surprising discovery of her own . But most movingly , The Vanishing Man is an eloquent and passionate homage to the Spanish master Vel ? zquez , bringing us closer to the creation and appreciation of his works than ever before . <h> Hellfire , Leesa Gazi , translated from the Bengali by Shabnam Nadiya <p> For the sisters Lovely and Beauty , home is a cage . Their mother Farida Khanam never lets them out of her hawk-eyed gaze . <p> Leesa Gazi 's Hellfire opens with Lovely 's first-ever solo expedition to Gausia Market on her fortieth birthday . There will be many firsts for her today , but she must n't forget the curfew Farida Khanam has ordained . As Lovely roams the streets of Dhaka , her mother 's carefully constructed world begins to unravel . The twisted but working arrangements of a fragile household begin to assume a macabre quality as the day progresses . <h> The Shadow King , Maaza Mengiste <p> Ethiopia , 1935 . With the threat of Mussolini 's army looming , recently orphaned Hirut struggles to adapt to her new life as a maid . Her new employer , Kidane , an officer in Emperor Haile Selassie 's army , rushes to mobilise his strongest men before the Italians invade . <p> Hirut and the other women long to do more than care for the wounded and bury the dead . When Emperor Haile Selassie goes into exile and Ethiopia quickly loses hope , it is Hirut who offers a plan to maintain morale . She helps disguise a gentle peasant as the emperor and soon becomes his guard , inspiring other women to take up arms . But how could she have predicted her own personal war , still to come , as a prisoner of one of Italy 's most vicious officers ? <h> Circe , Madeline Miller <p> In the house of Helios , god of the sun and mightiest of the Titans , a daughter is born . But Circe has neither the look nor the voice of divinity and is scorned and rejected by her kin . Increasingly isolated , she turns to mortals for companionship , leading her to discover a power forbidden to the gods : witchcraft . <p> When love drives Circe to cast a dark spell , wrathful Zeus banishes her to the remote island of Aiaia . There she learns to harness her occult craft , drawing strength from nature . But she will not always be alone ; many are destined to pass through Circe 's place of exile , entwining their fates with hers . The messenger god , Hermes . The craftsman , Daedalus . A ship bearing a golden fleece . And wily Odysseus , on his epic voyage home . <p> There is danger for a solitary woman in this world , and Circe 's independence draws the wrath of men and gods alike . To protect what she holds dear , Circe must decide whether she belongs with the deities she is born from or the mortals she has come to love . <h> The Butterfly 's Burden , Mahmoud Darwish , translated from the Arabic by Fady Joudah <p> Mahmoud Darwish was the most acclaimed poet in the Arab world . The Butterfly 's Burden presents three recent books in a single volume , each translated into English for the first time and presented side by side with the Arabic : The Stranger 's Bed ( 1998 ) , Darwish 's first collection of love poems ; State of Siege ( 2002 ) , a terse , politically charged sequence written in Ramallah ; and Do n't Apologize for What You 've Done ( 2003 ) , a song " green like the phoenix " after the daily horrors in Ramallah . These poems provide continual contrasts , balancing old literary traditions with new , highlighting lyrical , loving reflections alongside a bitter longing for the Palestine that was lost when Israel was created . <h> Munnu : A Boy From Kashmir , Malik Sajad <p> Seven-year-old Munnu is growing up in Indian-administered Kashmir . Life revolves around his family : Mama , Papa , sister Shahnaz , brothers Adil and Akhtar and , his favourite , older brother Bilal . It also revolves around Munnu 's two favourite things -- sugar and drawing . <p> But Munnu 's is a childhood experienced against the backdrop of conflict . Bilal 's classmates are crossing over into the Pakistan-administered portion of Kashmir to be trained to resist the " occupation " ; Papa and Bilal are regularly taken by the military to identification parades where informers will point out " terrorists " ; Munnu 's school is closed ; close neighbours are killed and the homes of Kashmiri Hindu families lie abandoned , as once close , mixed communities have ruptured under the pressure of Kashmir 's divisions . <h> In Memory of a Memory , Maria Stepanova translated from the Russian by Sasha Dugdale <p> With the death of her aunt , Maria Stepanova is left to sift through an apartment full of faded photographs , old postcards , letters , diaries , and heaps of souvenirs : a withered repository of a century of life in Russia . Carefully reassembled with calm , steady hands , these shards tell the story of how a seemingly ordinary Jewish family somehow managed to survive the myriad persecutions and repressions of the last century . <p> In dialogue with writers like Roland Barthes , WG Sebald , Susan Sontag and Osip Mandelstam , In Memory of Memory is imbued with rare intellectual curiosity and a wonderfully soft-spoken , poetic voice . Dipping into various forms -- essay , fiction , memoir , travelogue and historical documents -- Stepanova assembles a vast panorama of ideas and personalities and offers an entirely new and bold exploration of cultural and personal memory . <h> Persepolis , Marjane Satrapi , translated from the French by Anjali Singh <p> In powerful black-and-white comic strip images , Satrapi tells the coming-of-age story of her life in Tehran from ages six to fourteen , years that saw the overthrow of the Shah 's regime , the triumph of the Islamic Revolution , and the devastating effects of war with Iraq . The intelligent and outspoken only child of committed Marxists and the great-granddaughter of one of Iran 's last emperors , Marjane bears witness to a childhood uniquely entwined with the history of her country . <p> The more we learn about fungi , the less makes sense without them . They can change our minds , heal our bodies and even help us avoid environmental disasters ; they are metabolic masters , earth-makers and key players in most of nature 's processes . In Entangled Life , Merlin Sheldrake takes us on a mind-altering journey into their spectacular world and reveals how these extraordinary organisms transform our understanding of our planet and life itself . <p> Sujatha Gidla was born an untouchable . Her family , belonging to the Mala caste , was educated in Warangal and Madras by Canadian missionaries in the 1930s , making it possible for Gidla to attend elite schools and move to America at the age of 26 . It was only then that she saw how extraordinary -- and yet how typical -- her family history truly was . Determined to uncover that history , and understand the social and political forces that made it possible , she travelled back to India to record the testimonies of her mother , her uncles , and their friends . In Ants Among Elephants , she tells their story . A moving portrait of love , hardship , and struggle , Ants Among Elephants is also that rare thing : a personal history of modern India told from the bottom up . <h> Cooked : A Natural History of Transformation , Michael Pollan <p> Michael Pollan 's Cooked takes us back to basics and first principles : cooking with fire , with water , with air and with earth . <p> Meeting cooks from all over the world , who share their wisdom and stories , Pollan shows how cooking is at the heart of our culture and that when it gets down to it , it also fundamentally shapes our lives . <h> Breasts and Eggs , Mieko Kawakami , translated from the Japanese by Sam Bett and David Boyd <p> On a hot summer 's day in a poor suburb of Tokyo , we meet three women : thirty-year-old Natsuko , her older sister Makiko , and Makiko 's teenage daughter Midoriko . Makiko , an ageing hostess despairing the loss of her looks , has travelled to Tokyo in search of breast enhancement surgery . She 's accompanied by Midoriko , who has recently stopped speaking , finding herself unable to deal with her own changing body and her mother 's self-obsession . Her silence dominates Natsuko 's rundown apartment , providing a catalyst for each woman to grapple with their own anxieties and their relationships with one another . <p> Eight years later , we meet Natsuko again . She is now a writer and finds herself on a journey back to her native city , returning to memories of that summer and her family 's past as she faces her own uncertain future . In Breasts and Eggs , Mieko Kawakami paints a radical and intimate portrait of contemporary working-class womanhood in Japan , recounting the heartbreaking journeys of three women in a society where the odds are stacked against them . <h> A Case of Exploding Mangoes , Mohammed Hanif <p> In August 1988 , Zia gets into the presidential plane , Pak One , which explodes midway . Who killed him ? The army generals growing old waiting for their promotions , the CIA , the ISI , RAW , or Ali Shigri , a junior officer at the military academy whose father , a whisky-swilling jihadi colonel , was murdered by the army ? <h> Doppelganger : A Trip Into the Mirror World , Naomi Klein <p> When Naomi Klein discovered that a woman who shared her first name , but had radically different , harmful views , was getting chronically mistaken for her , it seemed too ridiculous to take seriously . Then suddenly it was n't . She started to find herself grappling with a distorted sense of reality , becoming obsessed with reading the threats on social media , and the endlessly scrolling insults from the followers of her doppelganger . Why had her shadowy other gone down such an extreme path ? Why was identity -- all we have to meet the world -- so unstable ? <p> To find out , Klein decided to follow her double into a bizarre , uncanny mirror world : one of conspiracy theories , anti-vaxxers and demagogue hucksters , where soft-focus wellness influencers make common cause with fire-breathing far-right propagandists ( all in the name of protecting " the children " ) . In doing so , she lifts the lid on our own culture during this surreal moment in history , as we turn ourselves into polished virtual brands , publicly shame our enemies , watch as deep fakes proliferate and whole nations flip from democracy to something far more sinister . <p> An Italian family , sizable , with its routines and rituals , crazes , pet phrases , and stories , doubtful , comical , indispensable , comes to life in the pages of Natalia Ginzburg 's Family Lexicon . Giuseppe Levi , the father , is a scientist , consumed by his work and a mania for hiking -- when he is n't provoked into angry remonstration by someone misspeaking or misbehaving or wearing the wrong thing . Giuseppe is Jewish , married to Lidia , a Catholic , though neither is religious ; they live in the industrial city of Turin where , as the years pass , their children find ways of their own to medicine , marriage , literature , politics . It is all very ordinary , except that the background to the story is Mussolini 's Italy in its steady downward descent to race law and world war . The Levis are , among other things , unshakeable anti-fascists . That will complicate their lives . <h> Wizard of the Crow , Ngugi wa Thiong'o <p> To honour the Ruler 's birthday , the Free Republic of Aburiria set out to build a tower ; a modern wonder of the world that will reach the gates of Heaven . But behind this pillar of unity , a battle for control of the Aburirian people rages . Among the contenders : the eponymous Wizard , an avatar of folklore and wisdom ; the corrupt Christian Ministry ; and the nefarious Global Bank . <h> The Shallows : How the Internet is Changing the Way We Think , Read and Remember , Nicolas Carr <p> The Shallows draws on the latest research to show that the Net is literally re-wiring our brains inducing only superficial understanding . As a consequence , there are profound changes in the way we live and communicate , remember and socialise -- even in our very conception of ourselves . By moving from the depths of thought to the shallows of distraction , the web , it seems , is actually fostering ignorance . <h> Seeing Like a Feminist , Nivedita Menon <p> For Nivedita Menon , feminism is not about a moment of final triumph over patriarchy but about the gradual transformation of the social field so decisively that old markers shift forever . From sexual harassment charges against international figures to the challenge that caste politics poses to feminism , from feminist dilemmas regarding commercial surrogacy to the Shah Bano case , from queer politics to domestic servant 's unions to the Pink Chaddi campaign , from the ban on the veil in France to the attempt to impose skirts on international women badminton players , Menon insists that feminism complicates the field irrevocably . <h> On Earth We 're Briefly Gorgeous , Ocean Vuong <p> This is a letter from a son to a mother who can not read . Written when the speaker , Little Dog , is in his late twenties , the letter unearths a family 's history that began before he was born . It tells of Vietnam , of the lasting impact of war , and of his family 's struggle to forge a new future . <p> And it serves as a doorway into parts of Little Dog 's life his mother has never known -- episodes of bewilderment , fear and passion -- all the while moving closer to an unforgettable revelation . <h> The Dream Life of Sukhanov , Olga Grushin <p> Stepping out into the dusk of a warm evening , esteemed art critic Sukhanov feels on top of the world . But the year is 1985 and the air is heavy with change . His future is haunted by doubt . Beset by visions of a past he gave up , he questions his choices : in swapping a life as a brilliant underground artist for comfort did he betray his dreams ? <h> Drive Your Plow over the Bones of the Dead , Olga Tokarczuk , translated from the Polish by Antonia Lloyd-Jones <p> Annie Proulx in a remote Polish village , Janina devotes the dark winter days to studying astrology , translating the poetry of William Blake , and taking care of the summer homes of wealthy Warsaw residents . Her reputation as a crank and a recluse is amplified by her not-so-secret preference for the company of animals over humans . Then a neighbour , Big Foot , turns up dead . Soon other bodies are discovered , in increasingly strange circumstances . As suspicions mount , Janina inserts herself into the investigation , certain that she knows whodunit . If only anyone would pay her mind . <h> On the Move , Oliver Sacks <p> From its opening pages on his youthful obsession with motorcycles and speed , On the Move is infused with his restless energy . As Sacks recounts his experiences as a young neurologist in the early 1960s , first in California and then in New York , where he discovered a long-forgotten illness in the back wards of a chronic hospital , as well as with a group of patients who would define his life , it becomes clear that Sacks 's earnest desire for engagement has occasioned unexpected encounters and travels -- sending him through bars and alleys , over oceans , and across continents . <h> The Lonely City : Adventures in the Art of Being Alone , Olivia Laing <p> When Olivia Laing moved to New York City in her mid-thirties , she found herself inhabiting loneliness on a daily basis . Increasingly fascinated by this most shameful of experiences , she began to explore the lonely city by way of art . Moving fluidly between the works and lives of some of the city 's most compelling artists , Laing conducts an electric , dazzling investigation into what it means to be alone , illuminating not only the causes of loneliness but also how it might be resisted and redeemed . <h> Natasha 's Dance : A Cultural History of Russia , Orlando Figes <p> Beginning in the 18th century with the building of St. Petersburg 's " a window on the West " -- and culminating with the challenges posed to Russian identity by the Soviet regime , Figes examines how writers , artists , and musicians grappled with the idea of Russia itself -- its character , spiritual essence , and destiny . He skillfully interweaves the great works -- by Dostoevsky , Stravinsky , and Chagall -- with folk embroidery , peasant songs , religious icons , and all the customs of daily life , from food and drink to bathing habits to beliefs about the spirit world . Figes 's characters range high and low : the revered Tolstoy , who left his deathbed to search for the Kingdom of God , as well as the serf girl Praskovya , who became Russian opera 's first superstar and shocked society by becoming her owner 's wife . <p> Like the European-schooled countess Natasha performing an impromptu folk dance in Tolstoy 's War and Peace , the spirit of " Russianness " is revealed by Figes as rich and uplifting , complex and contradictory-a powerful force that unified a vast country and proved more lasting than any Russian ruler or state . <h> Poonachi or the Story of a Black Goat , Perumal Murugan , translated from the Tamil by N Kalyan Raman <p> Through a seeming act of providence , an old couple receives a day-old female goat kid as a gift from the cosmos . Thus begins the story of Poonachi , the little orphan goat . <p> As you follow her story from forest to habitation , independence to motherhood , you recognise in its significant moments the depth and magnitude of your own fears and longings , fuelled by the instinct for survival that animates all life . Masterly and nuanced , Perumal Murugan 's tale forces us to reflect on our own responses to hierarchy and ownership , selflessness and appetite , love and desire , living and dying . Poonachi is the story of a goat who carries the burden of being different all her life , of a she-goat who survives against the odds . It is equally an expression of solidarity with the animal world and the female condition . The tale is also a commentary on our times , on the choices we make as a society and a nation , and the increasing vulnerability of individuals , particularly writers and artists , who resist when they are pressed to submit . <h> Indica : A Deep Natural History of the Indian Subcontinent , Pranay Lal <p> Researching across wide-ranging scientific disciplines and travelling with scientists all over the country , biochemist Pranay Lal has woven together the first compelling narrative of India 's deep natural history , filled with fierce reptiles , fantastic dinosaurs , gargantuan mammals and amazing plants . This story , which includes a rare collection of images , illustrations and maps , starts at the very beginning -- from the time when a galactic swirl of dust coalesced to become our life-giving planet -- and ends with the arrival of our ancestors on the banks of the Indus . Pranay Lal tells this story with verve , lucidity and an infectious enthusiasm that comes from his deep , abiding love of nature . <h> An Unnecessary Woman , Rabih Alameddine <p> Aaliya Saleh lives alone in her Beirut apartment , surrounded by stockpiles of books . Godless , fatherless , childless , and divorced , Aaliya is her family 's " unnecessary appendage " . Every year , she translates a new favourite book into Arabic , then stows it away . The thirty-seven books that Aaliya has translated over her lifetime have never been read -- by anyone . <p> This breathtaking portrait of a reclusive woman follows Aaliya 's digressive mind as it ricochets across visions of past and present Beirut . Colourful musings on literature , philosophy , and art are invaded by memories of the Lebanese Civil War and Aaliya 's own volatile past . As she tries to overcome her ageing body and spontaneous emotional upwellings , Aaliya is faced with an unthinkable disaster that threatens to shatter the little life she has left . <h> Strangers to Ourselves : Unsettled Minds and the Stories that Make Us , Rachel Aviv <p> Strangers to Ourselves is a compassionate , courageous and deeply researched look at the ways we talk about and understand ourselves in periods of crisis and distress . Drawing on conversations as well as unpublished journals and memoirs , it follows people who have found that psychiatric language has limitations when it comes to explaining who they are , or that a diagnosis , while giving their experience a name , creates a sense of a future life they wish to question or resist . <h> Farthest Field : An Indian Story of the Second World War , Raghu Karnad <p> The years 1939-45 might be the most revered , deplored and replayed in modern history . Yet India 's extraordinary role has been concealed , from itself and from the world . In riveting prose , Karnad retrieves the story of one family -- a story of love , rebellion , loyalty and uncertainty -- and with it , the greater revelation that is India 's Second World War . <p> Farthest Field narrates the lost epic of India 's war , in which the largest volunteer army in history fought for the British Empire , even as its countrymen fought to be free of it . It carries us from Madras to Peshawar , Egypt to Burma -- unfolding the saga of a young family amazed by their swiftly changing world and swept up in its violence . <h> India After Gandhi : The History of the World 's Largest Democracy , Ramachandra Guha <p> India After Gandhi is a magisterial account of the pains , struggles , humiliations and glories of the world 's largest and least likely democracy . A riveting chronicle of the often brutal conflicts that have rocked a giant nation , and of the extraordinary individuals and institutions who held it together , it established itself as a classic when it was first published in 2007 . In the last decade , India has witnessed , among other things , two general elections ; the fall of the Congress and the rise of Narendra Modi ; a major anti-corruption movement ; more violence against women , Dalits , and religious minorities ; a wave of prosperity for some but the persistence of poverty for others ; comparative peace in Nagaland but greater discontent in Kashmir than ever before . <h> The Faraway Nearby : A Field Guide to Getting Lost , Rebecca Solnit <p> Gifts come in many guises . One summer , Rebecca Solnit was bequeathed three boxes of ripening apricots , which lay , mountainous , on her bedroom floor -- a windfall , a riddle , an emergency to be dealt with . The fruit came from a neglected tree that her mother , gradually succumbing to memory loss , could no longer tend to . From this unexpected inheritance came stories spun like those of Scheherazade , who used her gifts as a storyteller to change her fate and her listener 's heart . <p> As she looks back on the year of apricots and emergencies , Solnit weaves her own story into fairytales and the lives of others -- Marquis de Sade , Mary Shelley and Ernesto " Che " Guevara . She tells of unexpected invitations and adventures , from a library of water in Iceland to the depths of the Grand Canyon . She tells of doctors and explorers , monsters and moths . She tells of warmth and coldness , of making art and re-making the self . <p> Drawing on her life as an indigenous scientist , a mother , and a woman , Kimmerer shows how other living beings -- asters and goldenrod , strawberries and squash , salamanders , algae , and sweetgrass -- offer us gifts and lessons , even if we 've forgotten how to hear their voices . In a rich braid of reflections that range from the creation of Turtle Island to the forces that threaten its flourishing today , she circles toward a central argument : that the awakening of a wider ecological consciousness requires the acknowledgement and celebration of our reciprocal relationship with the rest of the living world . For only when we can hear the languages of other beings will we be capable of understanding the generosity of the earth , and learn to give our own gifts in return . <h> Family Matters , Rohinton Mistry <p> Nariman Vakeel is a 79-year-old Parsi widower beset by Parkinson 's disease and haunted by memories of the past . He lives with his two middle-aged step-children . When Nariman 's illness is compounded by a broken ankle , he 's forced to take up residence with his daughter Roxana , her husband Yezad and their two young sons . This new responsibility for Yezad , who is already besieged by financial worries , proves too much and pushes him into a scheme of deception -- with devastating consequences . <p> Paris , near the turn of 1933 . Three young friends meet over apricot cocktails at the Bec-de-Gaz bar on the rue Montparnasse . They are Jean-Paul Sartre , Simone de Beauvoir and their friend Raymond Aron , who opens their eyes to a radical new way of thinking . Pointing to his drink , he says , " You can make philosophy out of this cocktail ! " <p> From this moment of inspiration , Sartre will create his own extraordinary philosophy of real , experienced life -- of love and desire , of freedom and being , of caf ? s and waiters , of friendships and revolutionary fervour . It is a philosophy that will enthral Paris and sweep through the world , leaving its mark on post-war liberation movements , from the student uprisings of 1968 to civil rights pioneers . <p> At the Existentialist Caf ? tells the story of modern existentialism as one of passionate encounters between people , minds and ideas . From the " king and queen of existentialism " -- Sartre and de Beauvoir -- to their wider circle of friends and adversaries including Albert Camus , Martin Heidegger , Maurice Merleau-Ponty and Iris Murdoch , this audiobook is an enjoyable and original journey through a captivating intellectual movement . <h> Cockroaches , Scholastique Mukasonga , translated from the French by Jordan Stump <p> Scholastique Mukasonga 's Cockroaches is the story of growing up a Tutsi in Hutu-dominated Rwanda -- the story of a happy child and a loving family , all wiped out in the genocide of 1994 . A vivid , bittersweet depiction of family life and bond in a time of immense hardship , it is also a story of incredible endurance , and the duty to remember that loss and those lost while somehow carrying on . <h> The Great Fire , Shirley Hazzard <p> In war-torn Asia and stricken Europe , men and women , still young but veterans of harsh experience , must reinvent their lives and expectations , and learn , from their past , to dream again . Some will fulfil their destinies , others will falter . At the centre of the story , a brave and brilliant soldier finds that survival and worldly achievement are not enough . His counterpart , a young girl living in Occupied Japan and tending to her dying brother , falls in love , and in the process discovers herself . <p> In the looming shadow of world enmities resumed , and of Asia 's coming centrality in world affairs , a man and a woman seek to recover self-reliance , balance , and tenderness , struggling to reclaim their humanity . <h> Latitudes of Longing , Shubhangi Swarup <p> An astounding exploration of intense longings , Shubhangi Swarup 's novel begins in the depths of the Andaman Sea , and follows geological and emotional faultlines through the Irrawaddy delta and the tourist trap of Thamel , to end amidst the highest glaciers and passes of the Karakorams . The story sweeps through worlds and times that are inhabited by : a scientist who studies trees and a clairvoyant who talks to them ; Lord Goodenough who travels around the furthest reaches of the Raj , giving names to nameless places ; a geologist working towards ending futile wars over a glacier ; octogenarian lovers ; a superstitious dictator and a mother struggling to get her revolutionary son released ; a yeti who seeks human companionship ; a turtle who turns first into a boat and then a woman ; and the ghost of an evaporated ocean as restless as the continents . <h> The Lost Pianos of Siberia , Sophy Roberts <p> Dotted throughout this remote and beautiful landscape are pianos created during the boom years of the 19th century . They tell the story of how , ever since entering Russian culture under the influence of Catherine the Great , piano music has run through the country like blood . How these pianos made the journey into this snow-bound wilderness in the first place is remarkable . That they might be capable of making music in such a hostile landscape feels like a miracle . <p> Terra Nullius is a journey across Australia 's desert and into its shocking past . This lyrical book describes its landscape , flora and fauna and geology , tells the history of the country and reveals the shocking treatment of its Aboriginal peoples . <p> When Swadesh Deepak -- celebrated Hindi playwright and short-story writer -- arrives at PGI , Chandigarh , after having tried to set himself on fire , the doctors do n't know if he belongs in the burns unit or in the psychiatric ward . He 's living a " curse " . A dangerous seductress -- his Mayavini -- is taking revenge for his insulting rebuff at her wish to visit with him the famous lovers ' palace in Mandu . She comes to him at night , sometimes with three white leopards , and she leaves the smell of her body in his nostrils . When he tries to kill himself , she tells him he will not die . He is firmly in her clutches , but he will tolerate anything for her , from humiliation at the hands of acquaintances to carnivorous worms under his skin . This fractured , shattering narrative records Deepak 's descent into madness and his brief , uncertain recovery . Shortly after it was published , he left home for a walk one morning and never returned . <h> The House of Doors , Tan Twang Eng <p> Willie Somerset Maugham is one of the greatest writers of the early 20th century . But in 1921 he is beleaguered by an unhappy marriage , ill-health and business interests that have gone badly awry . He is also struggling to write . <p> His friend Robert Hamlyn offers an escape in the Straits Settlements of Penang , where Robert 's steely wife Lesley learns to see Willie as he is -- a man who has no choice but to mask his true self . <p> As Willie prepares to leave , Lesley confides in him secrets of her own , including how she came to know the charismatic revolutionary Dr Sun Yat Sen. And more scandalous still , her connection to an Englishwoman charged with murder in the Kuala Lumpur courts -- a tragedy drawn from fact , and worthy of fiction . <h> Educated , Tara Westover <p> Tara Westover grew up preparing for the end of the world . She was never put in school , never taken to the doctor . She did not even have a birth certificate until she was nine years old . <p> At sixteen , to escape her father 's radicalism and a violent older brother , Tara left home . What followed was a struggle for self-invention , a journey that gets to the heart of what an education is and what it offers : the perspective to see one 's life through new eyes , and the will to change it . <h> Open City , Teju Cole <p> Along the streets of Manhattan , a young Nigerian doctor doing his residency wanders aimlessly . The walks meet a need for Julius : they are a release from the tightly regulated mental environment of work , and they give him the opportunity to process his relationships , his recent breakup with his girlfriend , his present , his past . Though he is navigating the busy parts of town , the impression of countless faces does nothing to assuage his feelings of isolation . But it is not only a physical landscape he covers ; Julius crisscrosses social territory as well , encountering people from different cultures and classes who will provide insight on his journey -- which takes him to Brussels , to the Nigeria of his youth , and into the most unrecognisable facets of his own soul . <h> Songs of Kabir , translated by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra <p> A lovely book of translations of the poetry of Kabir , a truly visionary egalitarian thinker of the 15th century , whose songs remain alive in the folk tradition of north India . In bringing Kabir to an English-speaking audience Arvind Krishna Mehrotra has made a major contribution to the global reach of that inspiring vision . <h> Sidewalks , Valeria Luiselli , translated from the Spanish by Christina MacSweeney <p> Evocative , erudite and consistently surprising , these narrative essays explore the places -- real and imagined -- that shape our lives . Whether wandering the familiar streets of her neighbourhood , revisiting the landmarks of her past , or getting lost in a foreign city , Valeria Luiselli plots a unique and exhilarating course that traces unexpected pathways between diverse ideas and reveals the world from a fresh perspective . Here , we follow Luiselli as she cycles around Mexico City , shares a cigarette with the night porter in her Harlem apartment , and hunts down a poet 's tomb in Venice . Each location sparks Luiselli 's nimble curiosity and prompts imaginative reflections and inventions on topics as varied as the fluidity of identity , the elusiveness of words that ca n't be translated , the competing methods of arranging a bookcase , and the way that city-dwellers evade eye contact with their neighbours while spying on their lives . <p> It 's true what they say -- it 's not we who control money , it 's the money that controls us . When there 's only a little , it behaves meekly ; when it grows , it becomes brash and has its way with us . From a cramped , ant-infested house to a spacious bungalow , a family finds itself making a transition in many ways . The narrator , a sensitive young man , is numbed by the swirl around him . All he can do is flee every day to an old-world cafe , where he seeks solace from an oracular waiter . As members of the family realign their equations and desires , new strands are knotted , others come apart , and conflict brews dangerously in the background . <h> Two Cures for Love , Wendy Cope <p> The idea for this book grew out of Wendy Cope 's experience of meeting her audience when reading her poems in schools . This is an edition of the poems which identifies the references , verse-forms , contexts and occasions of her work , and which offers readers a new arrangement of the poetry as a whole . The notes also identify dates of composition , so that it is possible to observe the development of her work . As well as drawing on Wendy Cope 's three published books , the selection also includes a significant number of poems collected or published for the first time . <h> The Housekeeper and the Professor , Yoko Ogawa , translated from the Japanese by Stephen Snyder <p> Each morning , the Professor and the Housekeeper are introduced to one another . The Professor may not remember what he had for breakfast , but his mind is still alive with elegant mathematical equations from the past . He devises clever maths riddles -- based on her shoe size or her birthday -- and the numbers reveal a poetic world to both the Housekeeper and her son . <p> With each new equation , the three lost souls forge an affection more mysterious than imaginary numbers , and a bond that runs deeper than memory . <h> Barracoon : The Story of the Last Slave , Zora Neale Hurston <p> Abducted from Africa , sold in America . The compelling true story of one of the last survivors of the Atlantic Slave Trade , Barracoon recounts one man 's fight for freedom . After being illegally smuggled as " Black Cargo " fifty years after the abolition of slavery , Cudjo Lewis spent nearly six years in captivity before being finally emancipated . Cudjo casts light on the circumstances of his capture and his detention in a barracoon , before embarking on his journey through the Middle Passage , to his arrival in the United States on the Alabama River . This never-before-published work brilliantly illuminates the tragedy of slavery and one life forever defined by it . <p> Disclosure : Arunava Sinha is the editor of Books and Ideas section of Scroll .
