<h> Grappling with maritime disputes and Myanmar crisis , ASEAN top diplomat meetings joined by US , China <p> VIENTIANE ( Laos ) , July 27:Top diplomats from Southeast Asia convened on Saturday in the Laotian capital with their powerful dialogue partners in the last of the three-day regional talks that have grappled with tensions over territorial claims in the South China Sea , escalating fighting in Myanmar , and regional rivalry . Meetings on Saturday in Vientiane are bringing together in the same room allies of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations -- including the United States , China , Russia , Japan , India and Australia -- to bolster their relationships and discuss key security issues and other regional affairs . In a meeting of ASEAN foreign ministers with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Saturday , Indonesia Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi said the bloc 's good partnership with Washington should also contribute to global peace . She said they should be respecting international laws " in a consistent manner " , whether about Ukraine , the South China Sea or the crisis in Gaza . Blinken said he hopes to work closely with the ASEAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Myanmar and provocations by North Korea . The Secretary of State is expected to meet on the sidelines with his Chinese counterpart , Wang Yi , as both countries are looking to expand their influence in the region . Participants in these meetings represent either critical US allies and partners , or Washington 's two largest rivals , Moscow and Beijing , which have grown closer over the past two years , prompting deep concerns about their combined global influence . Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov was also in Vientiane , and already held direct talks with Wang on Thursday . Indonesia said it emphasised in their opening meetings on Thursday that it 's important the bloc does n't get drawn into any rivalry between China and the US . ASEAN members Vietnam , the Philippines , Malaysia and Brunei all have conflicts with China over its claim of sovereignty over virtually all of the South China Sea , one of the world 's most crucial waterways for shipping . Many worry that direct confrontations there could lead to broader conflict . Indonesia has also expressed concern about what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are divisions within ASEAN on how to deal with China 's maritime claims . The Philippines has been critical over a perceived lack of support from the bloc , but in a rare deal , China and the Philippines said they had reached an agreement that they hope will end their confrontations , aiming to establish a mutually acceptable arrangement for the disputed area without conceding each other 's territorial claims . Philippines Secretary of Foreign Affairs Enrique Manalo said after the gala dinner on Friday that he had a bilateral meeting with China 's Wang , where they agreed that they would " honour the provisional agreement in a clear and sincere effort to defuse tensions and try and prevent any incidents of course from leading to further tension in our relationship " . On Saturday , the Philippines said it was able make a supply trip to the disputed area without having to confront Beijing 's forces , the first such trip since the deal was reached a week ago . Blinken applauded it as a success in his opening remarks at the meeting with ASEAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Philippines -- a US treaty partner -- " escalatory and unlawful " . Prior to the deal , tensions between the Philippines and China escalated for months , with China 's coast guard and other forces using powerful water cannons and dangerous blocking maneuvers to prevent food and other supplies from reaching Filipino navy personnel . The United States and its allies have regularly conducted military exercises and patrols in the area to assert their " free and open Indo-Pacific " policy -- including the right to navigate in international waters -- which has drawn criticism from China . Wang said in his meeting with Manalo that the deployment of a US intermediate-range missile system in the Philippines would create regional tension and trigger an arms race , according to a statement from the Chinese Foreign Ministry . The increasingly violent civil war in ASEAN member state Myanmar is one of the other issues dominating talks . Thailand has said the group gave their support for it to take a broader role as one of Myanmar 's immediate neighbours . Nikorndej Balankura , spokesperson of Thailand 's Ministry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanisms have been proposed to include more stakeholders , especially countries that share borders with Myanmar . He , however , noted that those proposals have just been submitted to Laos , which currently chairs ASEAN and is in charge of recommending them directly to Myanmar to seek its approval . The army in Myanmar ousted the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi in February 2021 and suppressed widespread nonviolent protests that sought a return to democratic rule , leading to increasing violence and a humanitarian crisis . ASEAN has been pushing a " five-point consensus " for peace , but the military leadership in Myanmar has so far ignored the plan , raising questions about the bloc 's efficiency and credibility . The peace plan calls for the immediate cessation of violence in Myanmar , a dialogue among all concerned parties , mediation by an ASEAN special envoy , provision of humanitarian aid through ASEAN channels , and a visit to Myanmar by the special envoy to meet all concerned parties . ( AP )
