<h> The Russia-US divide was on display during Moscow 's monthlong presidency of the UN Security Council <p> UNITED NATIONS , July 28:Whether it 's Gaza , Ukraine , Syria or a new world order , it 's been Russia versus the United States and the West during Moscow 's presidency of the Security Council this month , with the growing divide on vivid display . The tension was hardly new . Since Russia 's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 in violation of the UN Charter , which stresses the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all 193 members of the world organisation , the West has been lashing out at Moscow . But this month , with Russia in charge of the Security Council agenda , the animosity was more public , even down to how frosty the formalities were . The US deputy ambassador , Robert Wood , has refused to call the Russian foreign minister or any other Russian diplomat " Mr. President " , as is standard for any man presiding over the council -- a further sign of the icy state of US-Russian relations . In return , Russian diplomats have added an edge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at odds , especially Americans . " As the president of the Security Council , I am compelled to thank the United States for his statement , " a clearly angry Dmitry Polyansky , Russia 's deputy ambassador , said in response to critical remarks from Wood about Russia at a meeting Monday on Syria . The teeth-clenching has reinforced the sense of a Security Council that 's often been at cross-purposes in recent years , but is able to be somewhat diplomatic and adopt resolutions on some world hot spots . " It has been a month of petty diplomatic point-scoring rather than any really major meltdowns , " said Richard Gowan , UN director of the International Crisis Group , a think tank . The verbal clashes between Russian and Western diplomats have been a feature of almost every council meeting . When Russia used its signature meeting , chaired by Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov , to push for a more democratic world order with many centres of power , outraged Western ambassadors pushed back , saying Moscow had no standing to raise the issue after invading Ukraine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticizing the United States for declaring " its own exceptionalism . " He went on to cite George Orwell 's famed novel " Animal Farm , " saying , " All animals are equal , but some are more equal than others . " Lavrov then denounced NATO 's expansion in Europe . US Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield countered by accusing Russia of " willfully and flagrantly violating the core tenets of the United Nations Charter : territorial integrity , respect for human rights , international cooperation . " Britain 's Ambassador Barbara Woodward was equally tough : " While you tell us how you believe the world order can become more just , democratic and sustainable , your military is systematically bombing civilians in Ukraine in an unprovoked war of aggression , and in flagrant violation of the UN Charter . " France 's top UN diplomat , Nicolas de Riviere , compared Russia to " a pyromaniac firefighter " . " It calls for a more just world order but is multiplying its violations of the Charter and jeopardising our collective security , " de Riviere said . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplies to Ukraine , Western diplomats accused Russia of getting arms from North Korea and Iran in violation of UN sanctions , and accused China of supplying material to prop up Russia 's defense industrial base -- which Beijing 's envoy denied . At the council meeting on Syria , Russia accused the United States and its allies of attempting to destabilise the country with their " illegal presence " . Wood accused Russia and its close ally Syria of obstructing efforts to end the country 's 13-year civil war . Early in the month , Russia 's ambassador , Vassily Nebenzia , invited his 14 Security Council counterparts to a retreat at his country 's Long Island estate . One of the topics was the qualifications of the people Moscow had invited to brief members at the numerous meetings it has called on Ukraine , according to a council diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity because the meeting was private . Russia 's briefers on Ukraine have included peace activists , political commentators and freelance journalists . At a recent Russian-organized news conference , one speaker was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas of eastern Ukraine . At Thursday 's Ukraine meeting , Russia had former Austrian Foreign Minister Karin Kneissel brief the council , which Western diplomats saw as a noted improvement , though they strongly disagreed with her view that supplying Western weapons to Ukraine will spur an uncontrolled arms market in Eastern and Central Europe , increasing crime and terrorism . In perhaps Russia 's most difficult moment , Nebenzia chaired an emergency meeting of the council called by France and Ecuador on July 9 after a missile strike destroyed part of Ukraine 's largest children 's hospital . The US and many others blamed Russia , which denied responsibility . Nebenzia told The Associated Press on Thursday he thinks Russia 's presidency has been " smooth " and " made some news " . Wood , the US envoy , disagreed . " Russia wants to give the impression through its Security Council presidency that everything is business as usual . It is not , " he told AP on Friday . " As long as Russia continues its war of aggression against Ukraine , in clear violation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a responsible permanent member of the council will be viewed with the utmost of scepticism . " The Crisis Group 's Gowan said the Russians " are specialists at both delivering incendiary speeches and pulling diplomatic stunts in the Security Council , and have delivered both this month " . He pointed to Lavrov 's often repeated denunciations of US global dominance and Russia 's " stunt " of inviting Austria 's Kneissel to brief , which " has caused some mischief . " Gowan said Russia likes to signal that it will not let its " struggles " with the US and its European allies disrupt council business . " That normally , in itself , frustrates Western diplomats -- they feel Russia is avoiding any real penalty for its behaviour in Ukraine , " he said . When asked about clashes with the US and its allies , Nebenzia replied ; " That happens , presidency or no presidency . " ( AP )
