<h> Farewell event held for Palestinian envoy Ahmad Rabaie <p> ISLAMABAD - The Centre for Afghanistan , Middle East &amp; Africa ( CAMEA ) at the Institute of Strategic Studies Islamabad ( ISSI ) organized a farewell event yesterday in honor of Ahmad Rabaie , Ambassador of the State of Palestine to Pakistan . The event was moderated by Ms. Amina Khan , Director of CAMEA . The speakers included Ambassador Sohail Mahmood , Director General of ISSI ; Ambassador Khalid Mahmood , Chairman of the Board of Governors ( BoG ) of ISSI ; and H.E . Ambassador Ahmad Rabaie . <p> In her remarks , Ms. Amina Khan emphasized the deep-rooted bonds between Pakistan and Palestine , built on brotherhood and solidarity . She noted Pakistan 's consistent support for the Palestinian people in their struggle for a homeland and expressed gratitude for Ambassador Rabaie 's efforts in strengthening the bilateral relationship . Speaking on the occasion , Ambassador Sohail Mahmood commended Ambassador Ahmad Rabaie for his valuable efforts to deepen the fraternal Pakistan-Palestine relations and to promote the just cause of the Palestinian people , particularly in the wake of developments since October 7 , 2023 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Palestinians in Gaza , he noted that the issue pertains to a decades-long illegal occupation of Palestinian lands and a consistent denial of their right to self-determination and statehood . Ambassador Sohail Mahmood underscored that Pakistan 's support for the Palestinians stems from three factors : a moral imperative to support their just struggle for an independent state ; Quaid 's injunctions dating back even prior to the creation of Pakistan ; and a historically consistent stance of solidarity with the Palestinians . <p> He also drew parallels between the oppression and injustices faced by both Palestinians and Kashmiris . He highlighted that the Government of Pakistan has consistently supported the Palestinian cause through political and diplomatic means , humanitarian aid , advocacy at the United Nations , and human resource development . Ambassador Sohail Mahmood emphasized that Pakistan remains steadfast in its position that the Palestinian people must have a viable sovereign and independent state , based on pre-1967 borders , with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital . He concluded by thanking Ambassador Rabaie for his services and wishing him well in his future endeavors . <p> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support for Palestine , especially after October 7 . He highlighted the tragic toll of the conflict , with most victims being women and children , and over 150,000 Palestinians killed and injured . He praised Pakistan 's swift response , including the formation of a committee to send vital humanitarian aid . Ambassador Rabaie also acknowledged Pakistan 's unmatched diplomatic and political support at the United Nations . He was moved by the active support of Pakistan 's youth , who have vocally opposed the ongoing genocide and expressed hope for the future . Ambassador Rabaie especially thanked ISSI for its consistent focus on the Gaza situation and its support and solidarity with Palestinians during this difficult time .
