<p> Jerusalem , Nov 14 : An Indian woman from Kashmir who had sought immediate evacuation from the war-torn Hamas-ruled Gaza has safely reached Egypt with the help of Indian missions in the region , according to her husband . Lubna Nazir Shaboo and her daughter Karima , crossed the Rafah border crossing between Egypt and Gaza on Monday evening . " They are in al-Arish ( a city in Egypt ) . Tomorrow morning ( Tuesday ) they will move to Cairo , " Lubna 's husband Nedal Toman said in a text message sent to PTI from Gaza . The only exit route from Gaza , the Rafah crossing with Egypt , has been infrequently opened the past few weeks to let humanitarian supplies enter Gaza and also let some foreign nationals and wounded people cross over to the other side . In a telephone call to PTI on Sunday , Lubna confirmed that her name was among the people who could leave Gaza and thanked profusely the Indian missions in the region -- in Ramallah , Tel Aviv and Cairo -- for making this possible . On October 10 , Lubna had reached out to PTI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are facing a brutal war here and everything is being destroyed and bombarded in a matter of seconds , " she had told PTI . Following the unprecedented attacks by Hamas militants on October 7 in the southern areas of the Jewish state , Israel declared war launching a counter-offensive with the twin objectives of ousting Hamas , which has ruled the coastal Strip since 2007 , and freeing around 240 people who were taken hostage by the Islamic faction . " The sounds of bombardment are too scary and the whole house shakes . It is a very , very scary situation , " Lubna had told PTI before moving with her family to the southern part of Gaza where she spent several days with acquaintances before being evacuated . She had mentioned that their " water supply was officially cut off " in the middle of the night of October 9 and they were without electricity , which made them decide to move to the south and seek help in evacuation . Lubna had also said that she had n't seen anything like this before and had two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombardment in the bordering areas of Gaza . " We are not able to go anywhere because there is no safe place for us anywhere and the Gaza Strip is too small and it is closed from every side . There are no exit points over here , " she said . " I have already asked for help from the Representative office of India in Ramallah to help me get to a safer place along with my husband and my daughter , " she had said in a video message sent to PTI.
