<p> Jerusalem , Nov 26 ( AP ) Israel 's Foreign Ministry said Sunday that it would summon the Irish ambassador over a tweet celebrating the release of a 9-year-old girl from Hamas captivity , alleging the post did n't adequately condemn the militant group . Earlier Sunday , the Irish prime minister lauded the release of Emily Hand , an Israeli-Irish girl whose story has captivated both nations . " An innocent child who was lost has now been found and returned , and we breathe a massive sigh of relief . Our prayers have been answered , " Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar posted on the X platform , formerly known as Twitter . The girl was initially believed to have been killed in the Oct 7 assault on southern Israel by Hamas and other militants . A month ago , her father learned that she was actually alive and among about 240 people held hostage by Hamas in Gaza . The Hamas attack , which killed about 1,200 people in Israel , triggered a blistering Israeli air and ground assault on Gaza in which at least 13,300 Palestinians , about two thirds of them women and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostages released by Hamas on Saturday , the second day of a four-day cease-fire that allowed critical humanitarian aid into Gaza and gave civilians their first respite after seven weeks of war . Israeli government officials criticised Varadkar 's tweet , arguing that it cast what happened to Emily as a disappearance rather than a violent abduction by Hamas militants . " Mr Prime Minister , It seems you have lost your moral compass and need a reality check ! Emily Hand was not lost , ' she was kidnapped by a terror organization worse than ISIS , " Israeli Foreign Minister Eli Cohen tweeted . He alleged that Varadkar was " trying to legitimise and normalise terror , " and summoned the Irish ambassador to Israel for a reprimand . Irish government figures came quickly to the prime minister 's defence . The Irish minister for public expenditure , Paschal Donohoe , said Varadkar has been " unambiguous in condemning the violence of Hamas and also calling for restraint from Israeli military forces " . Ireland 's foreign affairs department said the " government has been clear at every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately and unconditionally " . It said the Irish ambassador was to meet Israeli Foreign Ministry officials on Monday . The summons is the third issued by Israel since the start of the Israel-Hamas war . Israel has also called in the ambassadors of Belgium and Spain after the countries ' leaders criticised Israel for the high civilian death toll in Gaza . The Spanish leader also called for European Union recognition of a Palestinian state . ( AP ) SCYSCY <p> ( This story has not been edited by THE WEEK and is auto-generated from PTI )
