<h> New ways for Israel-Palestine peace <p> In recent articles , I have draw attention to some famous people that we can learn from , such as the writer and philosopher Charles Dickens who authored ' A Tale of Two Cities ' and ' Oliver Twist ' about a hundred and fifty years ago , and the ' pop-star statistician ' , demographer and professor Hans Rosling . The latter was put on several lists of the worlds one hundred most influential thinkers a decade ago ; he died of an AIDS related liver cancer illness in 2017 , contracted during his work in Africa . Their sharp and sometimes witty analyses appeal to our heart , not only our mind , and they encourage us all to believe in our own ability to solve our problems -- and think anew.It is certainly important to be reminded of this in our time when there are terrible wars in Ukraine and Gaza , and also other protracted and unsolved conflicts , where nobody seem to have any solutions . In spite of the fact that we live in the best of times , we also live in the worst of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are sad manifestations of our shortcomings , in spite of all our knowledge , expertise , technology , and more . I believe that both wars could and should have been avoided if our politicians and leaders had done their jobs in more positive ways , if they really had wanted to , and if negative counter forces had been controlled , indeed the military research and related economic issues.The current war between Israel and Hamas/Palestine began on 7 October when the Palestinian leaders of Gaza carried out a terrible terrorist attack on Israel . It should have been avoided if the local and international partners had seen what was happening , and not happening , in the recent decades and years . The situation was so bad for the Palestinians , indeed in Gaza , that some desperate action was almost bound to be taken.In recent years , there were also positive developments as several Arab states established more normal relations with Israel . However , it was wrong to do that with little or no involvement of the Palestinians . It was also a major mistake that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution agreed on in the Oslo Agreements of 1993 , sanctioned by President Bill Clinton on the White House lawn . How could the parties and the international community let the unresolved issues drift for thirty years since that time -- worse , since the 6-day War in 1967 when Israel occupied Palestinian land and its true intentions were revealed ? We can even go all the way back to the time since the creation of Israel on Palestinian land in 1948 and ask how the international community , indeed the young UN that time , could let it all happen and drift since ? The Israeli settlements in the West Bank , with some 0.6 million Jews , are scattered in segregated enclaves , where people have their own weapons for security , living under Israeli law , not Palestinian law yet on their land . The world community says the settlements are illegal but does not take any action to enforce its decisions.Alas , the current situation makes the implementation of a two-state solution close to impossible . Israel and the Jewish settlers would hardly accept to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Palestinians would not accept lasting Israeli rule through occupation of their land in the West Bank and Gaza . It is quite unrealistic to foresee Palestinian rule in Gaza , even without Hamas . The only foreseeable future for Gaza , and probably also the West Bank , notably the whole of Palestine , would probably be to setup an international force to control the situation -- and keep the Israeli military and the frustrated Palestinian militants away . Also , there would probably be a need for an international force in Israel itself . Till now , that has never been discussed beyond the fact that USA is cooperating closely with Israel in the military and economic fields , including as regards the nuclear weapons , which Israel is said to have.Let me remind of some figures : There are some 6 million people living in the Palestinian Areas of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank ; there are 1.6 million Palestinians living in Israel , which has a total population of well over 8 million . There are about 6 million Palestinian refugees living all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lebanon and Syria . There are in all some 15 million Jews living all over the world , including the largest number in Israel and almost as many in USA . Considering the situation today , is likely that many Israelis may consider whether they should move abroad and certainly make arrangements for their children and grandchildren to live elsewhere in more peaceful circumstances . It is my opinion that the Arab states in the region must play a more proactive role in solving the protracted Israel-Palestine conflict , along with the international community , of which USA has a special role.In 1948 , a one-state solution , a Palestinian state , should have been implemented , probably with self-ruled Israeli provinces . That would have been a better solution than creating an Israeli state on Palestinian land , with unclear future for Palestine itself . However , it is too late to change those main decisions from 1948 , and Israel will certainly still exist . Yet , major improvements and changes can and must be made . Neither the Israelis nor the Palestinians , nor the international community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ongoing conflicts , occupation , and war . Since the parties are unable to live in peace , the international community must play a direct role militarily and for security reasons , as I suggested above -- and the neighbouring countries must be much more involved with both Israel and Palestine . True , this means that both Palestine and Israel would be placed under outside administration -- at least for the number over years that is required till it is likely that they can run their countries without fighting all the time , and Israel having the upper hand.Can advice from Charles Dickens and Hans Rosling help solve the situation ? No , but they have told us that we have to evaluate issues truthfully , not be fools , as Dickens would say bluntly , but use a bit more of all the wisdom that ordinary people and experts have in our hearts and minds . There is no excuse for not doing better and indeed create lasting peace between Israel and Palestine -- and between Russia and Ukraine , and Russia and the wider West .
