<h> Qatar says efforts to renew Israel-Hamas truce ' continuing ' <p> DOHA-Mediation efforts are continuing to secure a new Gaza ceasefire despite ongoing Israeli bombardment that is " narrowing the window " for a successful outcome , Qatar 's prime minister said Sunday . " Our efforts as the state of Qatar along with our partners are continuing . We are not going to give up , " Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani told the Doha Forum more than two months into the Israel-Hamas war . Qatar was a key mediator in negotiations that resulted in a seven-day truce , which saw scores of Israeli hostages exchanged for Palestinians prisoners and humanitarian aid , until it ended at the start of the month . The Israeli offensive has killed at least 17,700 people in Gaza , according to the Hamas-run health ministry , many of them women and children . " We are going to continue , we are committed to have hostages released , but we are also committed to stop the war , " the Qatari premier said.But , he added , " we are not seeing the same willingness from both parties " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ window for us " . Addressing the Doha Forum earlier , UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the Security Council was " paralysed by geostrategic divisions " that were undermining solutions to the conflict.The body 's " authority and credibility were severely undermined " by its delayed response to the war , he said two days after a US veto prevented a resolution calling for a Gaza ceasefire . " I reiterated my appeal for a humanitarian ceasefire to be declared , " he told the forum . " Regrettably , the Security Council failed to do it , " he added . " I can promise , I will not give up . " Guterres had convened an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council after two months of fighting in Gaza.He deployed the rarely-used Article 99 of the United Nations Charter that allows the secretary-general to bring to the council 's attention " any matter which in his opinion may threaten the maintenance of international peace and security " . The rule had not been invoked by a UN chief in decades . Also speaking at the Doha Forum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as responsible as Israel for civilian deaths in Gaza . " For the United States to block a United Nations Security Council resolution , one should hold the Americans responsible " for the deadly violence , he said . Jordan 's foreign minister Ayman Safadi , meanwhile , accused Israel of dragging the region " deeper into the sea of death " . Addressing the forum , Safadi said : " We are facing a difficult moment , a moment that will take us deeper into the sea of death and destruction , and Israel simply feels it can do that -- it feels unaccountable " .
