<h> Indian Collusion in East Pakistan <p> December 16 is a day of tragedy , when Pakistan was dismembered and the new state of Bangladesh was created in 1971 as part of the Indian collusion which still continues.In this context , Asoka Raina in his book , ' Inside RAW : The Story of India 's Secret Service ' disclosed : " Indian intelligence agencies were involved in erstwhile East Pakistan ... its operatives were in touch with Sheikh Mujib as the possible ' Father ' of a new nation ... Bangladesh , who went to Agartala in 1965 . The famous Agartala case was unearthed in 1967 . In fact , the main purpose of raising RAW in 1968 was to organise covert operations in Bangladesh . Indian army officers and RAW officials used Bengali refugees to set up Mukti Bahini ... RAW had established the network of a separatist movement through ' cells ' within East Pakistan and military training camps in Indian territory adjoining East Pakistan ... carrying out acts of sabotage against communication lines so that Indian forces simply marched in at the ' right ' time ... conducting unconventional guerrilla acts against the Pakistani @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rahman had announced a separate national flag for East Pakistan in his six points , which also included that the currency of East Pakistan should be different along with a separate military.Notably , since Prime Minister of Bangladesh , Sheikh Hasina came into power ; New Delhi has been employing various tactics to entrap Bangladesh by exploiting her pro-Indian tilt against Pakistan and even against the people of Bangladesh . In this connection , after 42 years to the events of 1971 , Abdul Qadir , the leader of Jamaat-e-Islami ( JI ) was hanged because of his loyalty to Pakistan . Executions of Mujadid and Chaudry of JI were also part of the same scheme.Ironically , the Awami League 's so-called nationalism is based on fabricated figures about the killing of three million Bengali people by Pakistan Army in 1971 . This figure was never authenticated by independent researchers . A famous Bengali journalist Sarmila Bose authored the book , " Dead Reckoning : Memories of the 1971 Bangladesh War " after thorough investigation . She terms the number a gigantic rumour . Richard Sisson and Leo E Rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Pakistan , India and the Creation of Bangladesh " clearly pointed out that the figures of the so-called genocide were faked by India . Addressing a ceremony during his Bangladesh tour , Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi openly stated on June 7 , 2015 that Indian forces helped Mukti Bahini to turn East Pakistan into Bangladesh . He elaborated that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had played an active role in separating East Pakistan , and he had also come to Delhi in 1971 to participate in the Satyagraha Movement , launched by Jana Sangh as a volunteer to garner support for the Mukti Bahini.Now , PM Modi is implementing the same conspiracy especially against Pakistan 's Balochistan province . RAW is supplying arms to the separatist elements and is encouraging anti-Pakistan Baloch leaders to continue opposing the federation of Pakistan . Pakistan 's Armed Forces and premier intelligence agency , the ISI have successfully broken the backbone of the foreign-backed terrorists . Peace has been restored in Balochistan , Karachi and other vulnerable regions.But , in the recent past , terrorist attacks in various provinces , particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RAW want to damage the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor ( CPEC ) . In this respect , in November , 2020 at a joint press conference and a joint press briefing , the then DG of ISPR Major-General Babar Iftikhar and the ex-Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had unveiled a dossier containing " irrefutable evidence " of India 's sponsorship of terrorism in Pakistan.Meanwhile , the country 's security agencies had arrested the terrorists involved in a blast which occurred on June 23 , 2021 near the banned Jamaat-ud-Dawa chief Hafiz Saeed 's house in Johar Town , Lahore . Addressing a press conference , Punjab Inspector General of Police Inam Ghani proved that the mastermind behind the blast was an Indian citizen , having clear links with RAW.It is mentionable that in a news release , Inter Services Public Relations ( ISPR ) revealed that the security forces on December 12 , 2023 killed twenty-seven terrorists in various intelligence-based operations , conducted to contain the increased activities of terrorists in Dera Ismail Khan District , while successfully thwarting insurgents ' attacks at a military post in Daraban area -- twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ <h> Ukraine 's Day of Reckoning <p> Ukraine has been off the front pages of the US press for months -- an old story , displaced by the horrors unfolding daily in Gaza.This past week , however , Ukraine returned to the headlines less because of developments there and more because the US Congress balked at approving the Biden administration 's request for an additional $61 billion in funding to resupply Ukraine 's dwindling arsenal.Congress ' hesitation is born of a number of factors . Some lawmakers did n't support the war from the outset and now see it as a two-year-old deadly stalemate . Some Republicans see the urgency behind President Biden 's Ukraine aid request as an opportunity for leverage to push for increased funding to " secure the southern US border . " Other Republicans seek to tie approving Ukraine aid to cuts in domestic spending , while some Democrats argue for reallocating funds for increases in the very same domestic spending.The internal GOP friction about Biden 's aid request has already toppled one Republican Speaker of the House and is now causing headaches for his successor . Resolution is uncertain , but vocal minorities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the war in Ukraine.Lawmakers ' reticence reflects US public opinion on how best to deal with the Russian invasion of Ukraine . In October Zogby Research Services conducted a survey of attitudes toward the war in Ukraine in seven European countries and the US . In most countries we found a growing weariness with the war 's costs and a desire for a negotiated end.One in five US respondents say the US is mainly responsible for the war and the major obstacle to peace , a view equally shared by Democrats and Republicans . Seven in 10 Americans are concerned with the costs of the war and want a compromise to end it -- a position held by three-quarters of Republicans and six in 10 Democrats . A plurality of Republicans sees the war as having weakened the US on the world stage.Opponents of continued US funding argue that European countries should step up and foot the bill for Ukraine , ignoring important political changes unfolding across Europe . First , no combination of European countries has the resources to match the level of US funding supporting Ukraine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strong nativist and isolationist bent . As such , European support for increasing arms shipments and aid to Ukraine has declined.While the ZRS poll shows that three-quarters of Europeans continue to hold Russia responsible for the war and support sanctions , the increases in cost of living and , in particular , of energy because of this war and sanctions against Russia , have taken a toll on European opinion . Eight in 10 now say that the rising cost of living is their greatest concern with this war and that because the costs of continuing the war are too high a compromise should be found to save lives and resources.Though US opinion is divided on continuing this war and Europe is increasingly questioning its costs , President Biden has doubled down on his support for Ukraine and Israel as his administration 's signature foreign policy issues . The president recently authored a piece attempting to tie together the wars against Putin and Hamas as defining battles of our generation . Taking up a neoconservative mantle , Biden channeled Ronald Reagan confronting the Evil Empire and George W. Bush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the force of good against the forces of evil in a battle necessary to secure humanity 's future.It 's a questionable formulation . Hamas is not Russia and Israel is not Ukraine . Neither poses the existential challenge to the West once posed by the USSR . And while Russia is the occupier and aggressor in Ukraine , Israel is the occupier and aggressor in Gaza.And so , a growing body of opinion in Europe and the US questions the wisdom of Ukraine being yet another " war without end " -- a challenge for both Ukraine and the Biden administration . While Ukraine was out of the headlines , the war in Gaza delayed tough decisions by Congress and the White House about the future . But with budget matters requiring attention by year 's end , the day of reckoning is at hand .
