<h> Do n't like the terms , ' pro-Israel ' or ' pro-Palestine , ' Jemima Goldsmith shares her two cents amidst genocide in Gaza <p> Renowned screenwriter and filmmaker Jemima Goldsmith is actively engaging as an advocate for discussions on the rise of antisemitism and Islamophobia . In a recent post on X , she challenged the binary narrative of being either " pro-Israel " or " pro-Palestine , " emphasizing the need for a more comprehensive approach . <p> Taking to the platform formerly known as Twitter , Jemima expressed her dislike for the terms " pro-Israel " or " pro-Palestine , " asserting that these labels imply a binary choice . She highlighted the possibility of supporting Israel 's right to exist in safety while also advocating for Palestinian freedom , emphasizing the interconnected nature of these stances . <p> I really do n't like the terms , " pro- Israel " or " pro- Palestine , " as it infers the choice has to be binary . You can be pro- Israel 's right to exist in safety and pro- Palestinian freedom . Those two things are not only mutually inclusive ; they are contingent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ titled " I have Muslim and Jewish family -- I want to talk about antisemitism and Islamophobia , " Jemima delved into the challenging terrain of prejudice , recounting personal experiences with antisemitism and its dangerous intersection with politics . She highlighted the global rise of antisemitism and underscored an often-overlooked issue within Muslim communities , sharing her firsthand encounters in Pakistan where her Jewish identity was exploited with fabricated Zionist conspiracy theories , resulting in threats , violence , and even a failed assassination attempt on her ex-husband , Imran Khan . <p> The article also addressed the misuse of terms like " Zionism " and " Islamism " by bigots to express prejudice against Jews or Muslims . Jemima advocated for the nuanced ability to criticize Israel 's actions without being falsely labelled antisemitic while acknowledging the rise of Muslim hatred globally . She called for unity against rising antisemitism and anti-Muslim hatred , urging individuals to set aside tribal allegiances and work towards understanding and empathy for both sides of the conflict .
