<h> No peace in South Asia sans solution of Kashmir dispute : General Asim Munir <p> COAS meets UN Secretary General in New York n Condemns illegal Indian efforts to change status of Jammu and Kashmir n Urges Antonio Guterres to mobilise global community to end hostilities in Gaza . <p> ISLAMABAD - Chief of Army Staff ( COAS ) General Syed Asim Munir said that peace in South Asia will remain elusive until a peaceful solution to the longstanding Kashmir dispute is found in accor ? dance with the UNSC res ? olutions and the aspira ? tions of Kashmiri people . <p> " The Army Chief made these remarks during a meeting with UN Sec ? retary General Antonio Guterres in New York , " says a press release issued by the Inter-Services Pub ? lic Relations ( ISPR ) on Sat ? urday . " Peace in South Asia will remain elusive until a peaceful solution to the longstanding Kashmir Dis ? pute is found in accordance with UNSC resolutions and the aspirations of Kashmi ? ri people . " The Army Chief also condemned unilateral and illegal Indian efforts to change the status of Jam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ UN Security Council Reso ? lutions . General Asim Mu ? nir reiterated Pakistan 's stance on the Palestine is ? sue and urged the Secre ? tary General to mobilise the international commu ? nity for immediate cessa ? tion of hostilities in Gaza to prevent the unfolding human tragedy . He high ? lighted that enduring solu ? tion to the issue lies in Two State Solution . He particu ? larly shared deep concerns over the plight of the inno ? cent civilians who are be ? ing brutally targeted and are not being provided with sufficient humanitari ? an relief . The UN Secretary General acknowledged the concerns and thanked General Syed Asim Mu ? nir for the visit to the UN Headquarters . The Army Chief reaffirmed Pakistan 's continuous support to the United Nations in all its earnest efforts . The UNSG warmly welcomed the vis ? it by the COAS and hailed the contributions made by Pakistan Army and contin ? gents of the Law Enforce ? ment Agencies who have remained committed to the peace and stability of the world .
