<h> Making 2024 an Annus Mirabilis <p> It was the late Queen Elisabeth II who used the old Latin words Annus Horribilis in 1992 , describing several negative events and scandals in her private household , including children 's marriage problems and a fire at her residence in Windsor Castle . The term she used describes that it had been a terrible or disastrous year , not to look back on with undiluted pleasure . However , the same year she also celebrated her 40 years on the throne . The term entered the lexicon and became fashionable to use about personal or political misfortunes , and we still use it in slightly posh conversation and writing.But then , problems and successes are always there , they come and go and solutions can be found . At the end of every year , it is common to take stock of the past and also have some positive forecasts and hopes for the year to begin . Even if last year was an Annus Horribilis , we can on a fresh slate try to make the coming year an Annus Mirabilis , a miraculous and wondrous year . That term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the terrible fire in London in 1666 , but also the English fleet winning at war over the Dutch . Both events were indeed terrible , yet , not without room for positive aspects and better days to come -- not for all , but for some of those who had survived and had resources to build back.2023 was a terrible year for many , but also a good year for some . Those who suffered most were people affected by poverty , and certainly by wars and conflicts , indeed the war by Russia in Ukraine . Towards the end of 2023 , a most cruel war between Israel and Palestine in Gaza has goes on , probably for a long time -- and there are many other wars raging but not given the same attention by the media . The two mentioned wars should have been avoided ; there was opportunity for the West to have influenced the Russians so that the invasion of Ukraine had not begun -- if there had really been a will do talk and negotiate . Since the fall of the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West could and should have worked together for democracy and development in Russia , and fairer trade and cultural policies with all the West 's and Russia 's cooperation , not war build-up.The ongoing brutal , overkill war between Israel and Palestine , triggered off by Hamas , the rulers of Gaza , should not have begun , and it could have been avoided had the two countries , their neighbours , the West , and other countries , been taking positive steps towards durable solutions for Palestine since the Oslo Accords in 1993 , and earlier , too , in 1967 and back to the creation of Israel on Palestinian land in 1948 , and even before that time . It is quite inexplicable that the hostile situation was allowed to drift and become worse , and why the parties , the neighbours and the international community , indeed with USA , did not give serious attention the situation and the people of Palestine , and also of Israel . Both countries suffer . To live in constant conflict nobody deserves , and currently , there is no shortcut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have run into a situation where the goodwill for Israel has diminished . A lasting peace for Israel and Palestine seems further away than in a very long time . The two-state solution is the only way forward , most people believe , but even that is doubtful and it will have many complications , not the least because of Israel 's hundreds of illegal settlements on the West Bank of Palestine . Israel 's intention to handle security issues in Gaza will make it a de facto occupied land . The only way ahead might indeed be that the international community , through the UN or a new organisation , took charge of security and military issues in both countries . As we enter 2024 , nobody knows how to go ahead in practice and make the birth-land of Jesus/Isa peaceful . It is also difficult to see how the Russia-Ukraine war can end without both parties being willing to hold true talks and negotiations.Let me broaden the important and problematic structural and specific issues in our time , which we must give focus to immediately from day one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead.First , it is about peace and war issues , underlying all other issues . It is both illogical that we still in our 21st century have situations of military and armed conflicts between neighbours , and other conflicts , too , between groups and individuals . We have the knowledge and resources to behave differently . As a Norwegian and a pacifist , I am ashamed of the way NATO , with its Norwegian Secretary Jens Stoltenberg , advocates military build-up in Europe and the West in general , taking away resources from people 's everyday life and prosperous future . The mind-set it creates is worrying for our time and the longer future.Second , the important issues we must focus on next year and onwards , are about inclusive and fair development and equality . That means new thinking and expansion about democracy , the sharing of resources within and between countries , and everyone 's participation . We let many issues drift , such as cooperation regarding migration , religions , cultures , education , and more . Currently , there is inflation and price increases internationally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work harder to solve the people 's problems , not focus on how to gain profits and development at the expense of other states and segments within them . Our politicians must do better and our education systems must focus on values and how to care for others.Third , the current global warming , climate change and environmental issues must be given more attention . It is not enough for countries , governments , organisations and companies to say that they want a more sustainable world and equilibrium . There is a need for more and better plans for solving the issues , not over night but over a foreseeable future . It is important to develop ways ahead which people see as positive , not as negative sacrifices . To save the globe must be seen as the positive activity it is.The recently held COP28 meeting in Dubai achieved something regarding common agreements and plans ahead , including financing of climate change measures through the Loss and Damage Fund , which was set up at COP27 in Egypt last year , to help poorer countries implement change . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries of poor countries as positive and necessary activity . To contribute to a fairer and better world should always be seen as positive , also for those countries and companies that have been and are exploiters . We must admit that the general development aid that the West has given to poorer countries was never enough or meant for real change and equality . In future , the transfers from the rich to poor countries , and poor people everywhere , must be organised so that it is fair , inclusive and good for all . In the long run , a fairer and more equal world is what leads to sustainable development , and the only way to avoid new wars and conflicts.Dear reader , may I wish you a Happy New Year -- and may we all work for 2024 to become an Annus Mirabilis , a miraculous and marvellous year -- as is our responsibility and possibility -- and God/Allah 's plan . But it is yours and my duty to implement it .
