<p> As the war rages in Gaza -- and the civilian death toll continues to climb -- the conflict is playing out in classrooms and on college campuses in the United States , where threats to Jewish and Muslim students and faculty are on the rise . <p> In a speech from Tel Aviv , President Biden forcefully denounced the militant group Hamas , which is responsible for the massacre of some 1,300 Israelis , including many women and children , since its Oct. 7 attack . <p> Meta and TikTok have each been sent formal requests for information by the European Union under the bloc 's Digital Services Act ( DSA ) , the Commission said today . In recent days , EU regulators has expressed concern about illegal content and disinformation circulating on social media platforms following attacks in the Middle East and the ongoing Israel-Hamas war . Last week the Commission took the same formal step of asking X ( formerly Twitter ) to submit info on how it 's complying with requirements set out in the DSA -- after publicly warning Elon Musk 's platform about its legal obligations to diligently respond to reports of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War in Israel after a historic terrorist attack . Republicans in Congress remain rudderless . Nikki Haley is rising , but only so much . Robert Kennedy Jr . is an independent . And inflation is down but not out . <p> Israel is in discussions with SpaceX to roll out Starlink internet services , especially for communities near the conflict zone , an Israeli official said Tuesday . Starlink currently is n't available in Israel , so this would be the first time the service is introduced in any capacity . " The activity of coordinating the Israeli company Starlink is taking place , enabling the operation of communication terminals by the company SpaceX , which will allow a wide broadband internet connection in Israel , " Israel Minister of Communications Shlomo Karhi said on X. " Additionally , under the guidance of the minister , the ministry promotes the purchase of these satellite devices for the benefit of regional councils and community leaders in conflict zone settlements . "
