<p> Intelligence agencies are investigating the congregation of top leaders from Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e Mohammed in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir for a speech by a Hamas spokesperson . The event , seen as an attempt to link the jihadi campaign in Jammu and Kashmir with the Palestinians ' fight against Israel , has prompted heightened security measures . <p> Intelligence agencies are monitoring a gathering in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir where top leaders of Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed will be addressed by Hamas spokesperson Khalid Qaddoumi . <p> NEW DELHI : Intelligence agencies are poring over inputs that the top leadership of Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e Mohammed will congregate in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir ( PoK ) on Wednesday for a speech by a senior Hamas functionary , known for his radical and provocative rhetoric , at an event to mark Kashmir Solidarity Day.The gathering , organised under the banner of Al Aqsa Floods , a reference to the mosque in Jerusalem which is claimed by both Jews and Muslims and has been an inflammable point of discord , will be addressed by Hamas spokesperson Khalid Qaddoumi , something that the agencies here are viewing as an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' fight against Israel.Sources said the agencies here would be looking for any spillover effect of the gathering due to be held at Sabir Stadium in Rawlakot.Intelligence agencies termed the congregation a " narrative-building " exercise by the jihadi factions to draw a false equivalence between Kashmir and Gaza . The inputs said there was a possibility of terrorists , including Mazood Azhar 's brother Talha Saif , besides Ashgar Khan and Iliyas Masood , attending the event . <p> Meanwhile , home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting on J&amp;K to review the security situation and the status of counter-terrorism operations . Senior officers from the armed forces , besides J&amp;K Police , were present . Shah is learnt to have emphasised on strengthening intelligence networks , countering cross-border infiltration , and accelerating development initiatives in the region . Security forces have been asked to remain on enhanced alert on Wednesday . Police personnel have been asked to conduct random checking of vehicles and frisking of people .
