<h> BJP MP seeks probe into USAID funding , alleges Congress-Soros link <p> BJP MP Nishikant Dubey alleged in Lok Sabha that USAID funded anti-India elements aligned with Congress , demanding a thorough investigation . Dubey 's remarks gained attention amidst growing US controversy over USAID 's funding for various international liberal initiatives and its collaboration with George Soros . Congress members protested strongly . <p> NEW DELHI : The controversy in the US over USAID ( United States Agency for International Development ) assistance for promoting " woke " culture and " liberal ideology " and influencing politics in different countries reverberated in Lok Sabha on Monday with BJP MP Nishikant Dubey alleging that the agency funded anti-India elements aligned with Congress , and demanded a comprehensive probe.Speaking during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha , Dubey said USAID , whose operations have been shuttered by President Donald Trump , collaborated with George Soros , the controversial US billionaire , and Congress leadership to promote " western agenda " . " Did USAID provide Rs 5,000 crore to Open Society Foundation run by George Soros to destabilise India ? Did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foundation and Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust or not ? I demand that Congress should answer and a govt probe be conducted , " Dubey said as Congress members protested.Dubey 's attack coincided with growing outrage in America over details of USAID 's funding - from promotion of a transgender concert and publication of transgender comic books in South American countries to promotion of atheism in Nepal and helping migrant workers in Tamil Nadu " deal with loneliness " . Last week , Republican Senator Geoge Kennedy brought up the issue of funds for opening of a clinic for transgenders in India and got the support of the influential billionaire Trump ally , Elon Musk . <p> Dubey saw USAID 's hand in Nepal ceasing to be a Hindu republic , and blamed the US agency also for the turmoil in Bangladesh.Several Congress members rose in protest against Dubey 's remarks and sought to raise a point of order but were disallowed by presiding officer Sandhya Ray who said such provisions did not apply to Zero Hour proceedings . Later , Congress members met Speaker Om Birla to register their objection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House . " USAID gave money to support electric vehicles in Vietnam with our taxpayers ' money . USAID gave money to a transgender clinic in India . I did n't know that . I bet the American people did n't know that . Musk also found that $1.5 million was given to Serbian LGBT organisations . They got the money to advance diversity , equity and inclusion in Serbian workplaces and business communities , " Kennedy had said , adding , " USAID spent $164 million to support radical organisations around the world . Of that , they gave $122 million to groups aligned with foreign terrorist organisations . USAID gave millions of dollars to such organisations in Gaza . " The comments came days after Republican Congresswoman Nancy Mace questioned the $750,000 grant by USAID to an NGO linked to actor Sonam Kapoor 's brother-in-law Anant Ahuja for " alleviating loneliness among migrant workers in India " .
