<h> Elevating bilateral ties <p> Qatar is popularly known in the Indian political community for its mediatory role in Middle East crises , mainly Israel-Gaza conflict , for contacts with militant Hezbollah and for world economic summits in its capital Doha . Qatar occupies a strategically crucial position in West Asia being a middle power in the Arab world and as a non-NATO ally of the United States . The visit of the Emir of Qatar , Sheikh Tamin bin Hamad Al-Thani is significant for the foregoing reasons as well as for resetting India 's bilateral relations . The recent episode of hanging of Indians which was commuted at the behest of Prime Minister Modi rings loud in Indian communities in Qatar and their relations in India . The Emir was on a two-day visit to India which resulted in elevating bilateral ties to a strategic partnership . Note that Qatar is the fifth GCC country ( Gulf Cooperation Council ) with which India has signed a Strategic Partnership Agreement . Four countries preceding Qatar are : UAE , Saudi Arabia , Oman and Kuwait . Qatar committed to investing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up an office in India ; the current bilateral trade of 14b USD is to be doubled in the next five years . It was discussed that a bilateral Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement should be signed in the near future . An FTA -- Free Trade Agreement is also in the offing . Also , both countries agreed to expedite negotiations for the India-Qatar Bilateral Investment Treaty . In addition to signing of Strategic Partnership and discussions on other probable agreements , there were six other deals fixed during this visit . These are : setting up of Joint Ministerial Commissions at the level of Foreign and Commerce Minister ; deepening energy partnership through trade and mutual investments ; extension of Indian E-visa facility for Qatar nationals ; operationalisation of India 's UPI in Qatar ; India and Qatar to celebrate year of culture and friendship in future , and a revised agreement for avoiding double taxation . There were wide-ranging discussions at various levels in order to enhance cooperation in areas like trade , investment , energy and security . To share some information about Qatar , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since Mohammed bin-Thani signed an agreement with colonial Britain in 1868 to recognise Qatar as a separate entity . After Ottoman rule , Qatar became a British protectorate in 1916 and gained independence in 1971 . The current Emir of Qatar was the visiting guest on 16-17 February . He holds all powers under the Constitution of Qatar . It has the fourth-highest GDP per capita in the world . It is a high-income economy with the world 's third-largest natural gas and oil reserves . India-Qatar relationship consists of two main elements -- Qatar supplying liquefied natural gas to India and the Indian expat community . Indian expats constitute a formidable 27% of Qatar 's population . They are a major source of foreign remittances for India . World Bank data suggests that Indian expats in Qatar send around 4.14b USD in remittances to India . Both these elements are facing challenges in the changing geo-political context . Indian expats are not just menial workers but are the backbone of Qatar 's robust economy . Qatar is heavily dependent on the Indian workforce . Indian expats are 800,000 plus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Qatar economy is a major employer of Indian blue-collar workers . Qatar 's infrastructure projects need labourers , masons , carpenters , plumbers and electricians . These workers come mainly from the Indian community in Qatar . So the mutual dependence -- India for gas and Qatar for skilled manpower -- is often underplayed in diplomatic niceties . The harsh punishment imposed on Indians has alarmed the expat community in Qatar . Whether they were guilty is a matter of separate discussion . The supply of LNG faces competition from the United States . For various reasons , India is moving closer to the US . It is inclined to import LNG from the United States . Then what happens to Qatari LNG supplies ? How will India hedge between Qatar and the US when the former was providing cheaper LNG to India ? India should be careful in undermining long-standing mutually beneficial partnership with Qatar . Remember , the recent 20-year LNG deal with Qatar is estimated to have saved India 6b USD . There is an attempt by European countries to buy Qatari gas in the wake of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement with India in recognition of India as an emerging world power as well as a potential market . The challenges which still persist between India and Qatar include issues related to labour rights , expat welfare and regional tensions . The last one fully occupies Qatar as it is often made to play the interlocutor . Persistent conflict between Israel and Palestine , the instability caused by internal conflicts in Syria , rivalry between Saudi Arabia and Iran for regional leadership , unrelentingly occupying Qatar . New Delhi could team-up with Qatar to give a hand to the latter in dealing with the regional tensions . India and Qatar have had a steady relationship . It needs to be deepened . New Delhi should engage more with Qatar in the West Asian security situation . As such , the Indian-Qatar relationship is too crucial for both countries to be taken for granted . The relation should be enhanced by constant nurturing , strategic foresight and a clear understanding of the dramatically changing global geo-politics . In that sense , Emir 's visit to India is quite impactful . Qatar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by helping the Qatari economy in many other areas where India is strong . New Delhi can not cold-shoulder any West Asian country , let alone Qatar . India has a huge Diaspora in the Middle East , in many countries . The Indian economy is bolstered by remittances from the expats . Indians are increasingly getting involved in the growth and development of the West Asian countries which they have embraced as their places of work and stay . Their goodwill from the host countries should be harnessed for improving India 's bilateral ties in the Middle East . New Delhi is not short of diplomatic initiatives and the Prime Minister 's personal warmth with leaders of West Asia . As said , Modi 's personal intervention precluded a major tragedy when Indian Navy officers and others were given death sentences by the Qatari judiciary . The Foreign Minister Jaishankar 's strategic visits to Doha are indicators of New Delhi 's deft diplomacy . That should continue in the interest of consolidation of India-Qatar bilateralism. -- INFA ( The writer is Prof. NIIS Group of Institutions , Odisha ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first appeared as a tabloid weekly on 10th August 1945 under the editorship of Late Sudhindra Bhusan Chaudhuri . In 1958 it was converted to a Daily . Owing to financial constraints , within six months it reverted back to a weekly .
