<h> Editorial : Ukraine , a pawn in geopolitical chessboard <p> As the world watches helplessly the completion of three years of the Russia-Ukraine war , the bloodiest in Europe since World War II , the situation has moved beyond the military conflict as Ukraine has now been reduced to a pawn in the geopolitical chessboard . The big powers are making moves to gain strategic advantage at the cost of the continued misery that the pointless war has inflicted on people . There are no winners in this war that has left a trail of death and destruction . Ukraine is devastated while Russia has certainly weakened . Europe , on the other hand , is fragmented and the US is frustrated . Though it began as essentially a European conflict , the impact is not confined to Europe anymore . Global energy , food and financial linkages have been impacted . A sense of fatigue has set in now . It is clear that the people in both Russia and Ukraine do not want the war to continue . Whatever the geopolitical reasons , war invariably brings misery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What is ironic is that Ukraine , which was once hailed for its heroic and brave resistance in the face of Russian invasion , has been left out of the peace talks being spearheaded by the United States and Russia . The aggressor -- Russia -- is a key player in the negotiations while the victim -- Ukraine -- is made to watch the proceedings from the sidelines . ' Might is right ' appears to be the principle that is dictating the fate of Ukraine . <p> US President Donald Trump has , in his second term , completely reversed his country 's policy by blaming Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy for ' starting the war ' and dubbing him as a ' dictator without elections ' , while shielding Russian President Vladimir Putin . Europe , which initially backed Ukraine both militarily and morally , is now increasingly divided . The United States , which provided military assistance and mobilised global backing , has shifted its stance following the return of Republicans to power . Zelenskyy , once celebrated as a hero , is now being vilified by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the changing global equations , Russia , which long condemned America as the primary instigator of the conflict , is now eager to negotiate a deal with Washington . On his part , Trump has turned a humanitarian crisis into a transactional advantage , like his earlier ludicrous ideas to buy Greenland or control the Panama Canal or Gaza or even Canada . The Trump administration 's latest demand that Ukraine grant the US access to its critical minerals in exchange for aid marks a major shift in Washington 's approach to the war . By treating the conflict as a transactional issue rather than a strategic battle against Russian aggression , Trump is signalling that his priority is not Ukraine 's sovereignty but a swift resolution that aligns with his broader vision of reducing US entanglements abroad .
