<h> Prime Minister discusses with Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar of Egypt during visit to Thailand as Guest of Royal Thai Government <p> On 8 July 2024 , H.E . Mr. Srettha Thavisin , Prime Minister , discussed with His Eminence Professor Dr. Ahmed Mohamed Ahmed El-Tayeb , Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar of Egypt , during His Eminence 's visit to Thailand as Guest of the Royal Thai Government during 5 -- 8 July 2024 . In attendance were H.E . Mr. Maris Sangiampongsa , Minister of Foreign Affairs , and Police Colonel Thawee Sodsong , Minister of Justice . <p> During the meeting , the Prime Minister and Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar are pleased with the 70th anniversary of Thailand -- Egypt diplomatic relations this year and expressed their intention to further strengthen bilateral relations , particularly in the fields of education , religion and culture . In addition , the Prime Minister also expressed appreciation to the Egyptian side for continuously granting Al-Azhar University scholarships to Thai students and support the establishment of an Arabic language center in partnership with Al-Azhar University in Thailand for students aiming to pursue their studies at theUniversity and those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On this occasion , both sides also exchanged views on the situation in the Middle East . The Prime Minister emphasized Thailand 's support for peaceful solution in line with the Two-State Solution , as well as Thailand 's request for further assistance in securing the remaining Thai hostages . The Thai side also shared that the Thai Government will provide financial support of 100,000 dollars to the Egyptian Red Crescent for humanitarian assistance of people in the Gaza Strip , which will be coordinated through the Royal Thai Embassy in Cairo in due course . <p> In the afternoon , Police Colonel Thawee Sodsong , Minister of Justice , on behalf of the Royal Thai Government , bid farewell to the Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar of Egypt after he completed his visit to Thailand . <p> Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand .
