<p> US President Donald Trump on Tuesday vowed to cut all federal funding for colleges and universities that permit what he called " illegal " protests , adding that students participating in such demonstrations could face expulsion or arrest . " All Federal Funding will STOP for any College , School , or University that allows illegal protests , " Trump wrote on Truth Social . " Agitators will be imprisoned/or permanently sent back to the country from which they came . American students will be permanently expelled or , depending on the crime , arrested . NO MASKS ! Thank you for your attention to this matter . " Ongoing campus protestsTrump 's remarks come as pro-Palestinian protests continue on US campuses , triggered by Israel 's airstrikes in Gaza following the October 7 Hamas attacks . At Barnard College , students stormed a campus building after two were expelled for disrupting a Columbia University class on Israeli history . <p> What qualifies as an ' illegal ' protest ? Under US law , a protest becomes illegal if it violates regulations such as : <p> The First Amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impose " time , place , and manner " restrictions . The ACLU states that restrictions must be neutral , meaning the government " may not prevent a protest because it has an anti-war message " but can regulate noise levels or require permits for large gatherings.Trump 's threat to revoke federal funding raises legal questions , as universities operate under both state and federal protections for free expression . However , past administrations have used funding as leverage to influence campus policies , setting the stage for a potential legal battle . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
