<p> US President Donald Trump on Wednesday threatened Houthi rebels stating that the damage inflicted on them " will get progressively worse , and they will be completely annihilated , " further warning Iran to " stop sending them large levels of supplies . " " Reports are coming in that while Iran has lessened its intensity on Military Equipment and General Support to the Houthis , they are still sending large levels of Supplies . Iran must stop the sending of these Supplies IMMEDIATELY . Let the Houthis fight it out themselves . Either way they lose , but this way they lose quickly , " Trump said on Truth Social . " Tremendous damage has been inflicted upon the Houthi barbarians , and watch how it will get progressively worse -- It 's not even a fair fight , and never will be . They will be completely annihilated ! " he added . <p> These remarks came after Iran-backed Yemeni Houthi rebels claimed to have launched a fresh strike on US naval vessels in the Red Sea , marking their fourth attack on the carrier fleet within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicating " a number of cruise missiles and drones , targeting the aircraft carrier ' USS Harry Truman ' and a number of enemy warships " . Earlier , Trump ordered large-scale military strikes against Yemen 's Iran-aligned Houthis earlier on Saturday over the group 's attacks against Red Sea shipping , killing at least 53 , including women and children , with approximately 100 wounded.The action follows the group 's attacks on Red Sea shipping , which Trump vowed to stop , warning that " hell will rain down " on the Houthis if they continue . " To all Houthi terrorists , YOUR TIME IS UP , AND YOUR ATTACKS MUST STOP , STARTING TODAY . IF THEY DO N'T , HELL WILL RAIN DOWN UPON YOU LIKE NOTHING YOU HAVE EVER SEEN BEFORE ! " Trump had earlier posted on X.Trump vowed to use " overwhelming lethal force " against the Houthis until they cease their attacks . He also issued a strong warning to Iran , the group 's main backer , demanding an immediate halt to its support . He said if Iran threatened the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we wo n't be nice about it ! " The Houthis have conducted attacks on commercial and military vessels in the Red Sea , Gulf of Aden , and other crucial maritime passages since late 2023 . They state these actions are in response to Israel 's Gaza blockade . <h> About the Author <p> At TOI World Desk , our dedicated team of seasoned journalists and passionate writers tirelessly sifts through the vast tapestry of global events to bring you the latest news and diverse perspectives round the clock . With an unwavering commitment to accuracy , depth , and timeliness , we strive to keep you informed about the ever-evolving world , delivering a nuanced understanding of international affairs to our readers . Join us on a journey across continents as we unravel the stories that shape our interconnected world .
