<h> US officials say Indian scholar is accused of spreading Hamas propaganda , antisemitism <p> Georgetown Univ campus in Washington . Homeland security officials said Badar Khan Suri was arrested under a US law that allows deportation of non-citizens whom ' the secy of state has reasonable ground to believe would have potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the US ' <p> TOI correspondent from Washington : Georgetown University researcher Badar Khan Suri , who has been detained and flagged him for deportation for his pro-Hamas activism , is married to Maphaz Saleh , who is a Palestinian . Maphaz 's father Ahmed Yousef is said to be a senior political advisor to Hamas , which the US has designated a terrorist organisation . The couple met in Gaza when Suri was part of a humanitarian convoy in 2011 . They married in 2014 , after which Maphaz moved to Delhi and enrolled at Jamia Millia , eventually earning a master 's degree in conflict analysis and peace-building from the Nelson Mandela Centre for Peace &amp; Conflict Resolution . They came to the US sometime after 2020 following Suri @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conflict Studies Postdoctoral Fellow at Georgetown University 's Alwaleed Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding , Maphaz is also pursuing a master 's degree at the School of Foreign Service 's Center for Contemporary Arab Studies . Suri is currently teaching a class on majoritarianism and minority rights in South Asia and researching peace-building in Iraq and Afghanistan . Homeland security officials said Suri was arrested under a US law that allows deportation of non-citizens whom " the secretary of state has reasonable ground to believe would have potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the US " . He was accused of " spreading Hamas propaganda and promoting antisemitism on social media , " with " close connections " to a senior advisor to Hamas . <p> Georgetown University said it was not aware of Suri engaging in any illegal activity and had not received a reason for his detention.Suri 's lawyer Hassan Ahmad suggested that his client had been abducted , saying he had no criminal record and nor has he been charged with any crime . " Seeing our govt abduct and jail another innocent person is beyond contemptible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolution is whom the govt decides is bad for foreign policy , then perhaps the problem is with the govt , not the scholar , " Ahmad said.A brief scrutiny of Suri 's social media posts , which were infrequent , showed trenchant criticism of Israel 's attacks on Gaza , including India 's support for Israel . In a June 6 , 2024 , post , Suri mocked the Modi govt for its purported support for Israel and abandonment of Palestine after a Palestinian network posted a video of a missile fragment with an India imprint on it . " From being an ally of Palestinians , to enabler of a genocide . What a disgrace for Made in India , to supply missiles to Israel so that Palestinian children can be butchered . Change of values for blood money . Shame , " he wrote . While Suri was identified by Georgetown University as an Indian national , ' The Hoya ' said Maphaz was a US citizen , raising questions in the MAGAsphere as to how " the daughter of a Hamas representative came to acquire American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jamia , Amir Khan , told TOI : " Badar was an introverted and shy person with a great sense of humour . We studied together for our Master 's from 2009 to 2011 , and he later pursued his PhD at the same centre . " Khan added that Badar had strong opinions on the Palestinian issue , which he often voiced , but emphasised that he was never involved in street activism . " During our time at the university , he was more academically focused , " Khan explained.In 2010 , Badar participated in a solidarity delegation supporting Palestine , which included participants from various countries . It was during this event that he met Maphaz . " Badar comes from a humble background , with his family living in Saharanpur . His father was a food inspector and is now retired . The news has deeply disturbed the family , " Khan said , terming the deportation move " a witch hunt " . ( With inputs from Sugandha Jha in New Delhi )
