<h> Treat Narco smugglers as Terrorists <p> Ronik Sharma Recently , the Pakistani establishment and its allied agencies have provided full support for hosting a terror summit in Pakistan-Occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( POJK ) . On February 5 , in this terrorist summit , with the active connivance of the Pakistani establishment as well as the Pakistan-based terrorist groups , including Jaish-e-Mohammad ( JeM ) , Lashkar-e-Toiba ( LeT ) , and other organisations of the terrorists who are supporting , sponsoring , and providing all logistics in spreading the terrorism were reportedly present at the event organised at a stadium in Rawalkot town in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( PoJK ) . This summit was also reported by the different media as well as social media platforms . The event , which took place in Rawalkot 's Shabir stadium , had the themes of " Kashmir solidarity " and " Al Aqsa flood , " the latter which alludes to Hamas ' military actions in Gaza , according to reports from the media and social media their agenda for holding this summit in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of uniting terrorist organisations like Jaish-e-Mohammad ( JeM ) , Lashkar-e-Toiba ( LeT ) , and Hamas in Pakistan Occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( PoJK ) is an alarming situation for the whole of the world . As everyone knows , this Pakistan-based terrorism is a big threat to the global community that wants to live in a peaceful environment . The increase in their infrastructures as well as other logistics support would not only be problematic but also put the lives of peace lovers in danger . Due to the growing number of terrorist attacks on the innocent people , the entire world has already experienced suffering significantly . As is well known , terrorism has expanded quickly and is also disturbing , destroying , and harming peaceful areas of the world . In addition , the most wanted terrorists and fugitives in the world have long sought refuge in Pakistan and the areas they have illegally occupied since 1947 . Therefore , it is the ideal location for drug trafficking and other illicit activities . Every peace-loving person should keep an eye on what is happening in Pakistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be taken into consideration . In order to apply their global agenda , the terrorists have been exerting pressure at gunpoint on the innocent people , especially teenagers living in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir , urging them to join terrorism , narco-terrorism and other illegal activities against Bharat and the rest of the world to aid their evil plans to spread terrorism . Their main target is Bharat . However , if they refuse , they will be killed . In practically every area of the Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir , these terrorist organisations are recruiting and targeting young people for brainwashing by involving them in drugs and adopting all other methods to recruit them in terrorism . The situation in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir is alarming , making it urgent for United Nations General Assembly , the United Nations Security Council , and world bodies working on Human Rights violations not to overlook this alarming situation in Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir and they must put sanctions and warn Pakistan to stop atrocities on innocent people of Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir , also to stop aiding these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return all Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir 's ( POJK ) territories , including Gilgit-Baltistan to Bharat because it is well known that Pakistan has been illegally occupying these Bharat territories since 1947 ; otherwise , there is no other option left for Bharat to take military action against Pakistan . As per the latest findings of the Global terrorism Index report 2024 terrorism- related incidents and fatalities have not only increased , from last few years but the lethality of these terrorist organisations ' attacks has also increased to 22% . The highest level since 2017 . Apart from this , for many years , the smuggling and distribution of illegal narcotics , including banned drugs , have been on the rise from the areas of the Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir ( PoJK ) with the active connivance of Pakistan , the Pakistani agency ISI , and their terrorist outfits , who are involved in sponsoring terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir , providing all possible support and logistics for spreading narco-terrorism in the smuggling of drugs into Bharat . With the active assistance of their sleeper cells , these drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers have not only strengthened their narco-terrorism trade in Jammu and Kashmir but also throughout the country . In addition to increasing their income , drug traffickers have established a robust network for enlisting young people in drug use , distribution of drugs and enlisting others in this habit through the medium of their overground narco-terrorism workers . Because of this , they have established a network of narco-terrorism throughout Jammu and Kashmir and rest of the Bharat . Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the increasing network in narco-terrorism ( drug cartels ) , the Union Territory Government as well as Central Government should not show any leniency towards drug peddlers in any case ; it may affect the society very badly . The security agencies as well as other forces are required to be more sensitive to societal demands so that those who are involved in the sale , purchase , and smuggling of drugs do not roam freely and robustly in their network . They are required to be dealt with iron hands ; strong measures should be implemented . Merely attaching their properties is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be sentenced accordingly . Those who indulge in the sale , purchase , and smuggling of any kind of narcotic drugs shall think thousands of times before operating such trafficking and operating the drug cartels . This is an appropriate time for the Government to take tough measures because the main reason is that if the drug smugglers are not dealt with strictly at this time , the condition of our youth is going to be very bad in the coming times . ( The author is an advocate and the Convenor of Roots in PoJK. )
